u2014-09-26-0	Dear Parliament, The 4th day of the fall session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I welcome my fellow Members in this Chamber and all those who monitor our work on the television screen. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Mrs Loránt Hegedűs will be attending the meeting to help me. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck spoke before the agenda today with the title "Paks, Collision of Interests and Values. " I give the floor to the LMP congresswoman.
u2014-09-26-1	[[???"Stopaks2 - Pakstop" feliratú pólót visel.???]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The decision to imagine Hungary's future with nuclear power or without nuclear power is not only an economic and environmental security issue, but also a very serious moral issue; I dare say it is a matter of value choice. Unfortunately, in the last 25 years, any political force has been on the government, we have had to experience that the short-term interests of the economy dominate our lives, that competition and the pressure to grow at all costs outweigh the long-term interests of people, that solidarity is eliminated from society, that people are left alone. Today's debate on Paks II. its construction, LMP initiated it because it is not acceptable that a bad Fidesz-KDNP government will, which unfortunately became a parliamentary decision by strengthening the Paks loan agreement, puts Hungary on a forced course for decades and even centuries, significantly narrows down the scope of its successors, not to mention the most serious, endangering their lives. I am convinced that our successors will once curse the day when Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin signed a cooperation agreement on the construction of two new Paks nuclear power stations on 14 January 2014. This has been done in the knowledge that the consequences of the Chernobyl and Fukushima nuclear power plant accidents have been almost inaccessible to date and that there have been a number of nuclear power plant accidents worldwide in recent decades. Moreover, terrorism is growing in the world and nuclear power plants can become its target. It is no coincidence that a multitude of people and governments in developed countries say no to the construction of new nuclear power plants, put energy saving and efficiency at the heart of their energy policy, as well as increasing use of renewable energy sources. Ladies and gentlemen, Again and again, I ask: how can we decide on the environment and energy security of a country's population, a commitment that goes beyond the country's financial capacity, without asking the people's opinion? According to public opinion polls carried out independently of the companies involved in the construction of the nuclear power plant, the majority of the domestic population do not want to expand the nuclear power plant and two thirds of the citizens reject the Russian investment. It is therefore appropriate to ask: on whose behalf did Viktor Orbán agree with Putin on the expansion of the nuclear power plant with Russian money, Russian technology and Russian construction? It is also important to emphasise the large-scale rejection of the public because, in the last decades, information on nuclear energy has essentially been and could have been only one-sided in the country. The Paks Nuclear Power Plant, with a public budget of billions of dollars a year, used all the propaganda tools to prove that nuclear power is cheap and secure energy. But you've forgotten a few facts. It did not include the cost of financing the nuclear power plant, the price of the disposal of low and high-activity waste, the costs of the nuclear power plant resolution and the additional investments, such as chilling to hundreds of billions, the conversion of the power grid or reserve power generation capacities. It's no coincidence that the government is silent about these things, because this energy isn't so cheap anymore. The LMP has fought a great deal to ensure that alternatives can appear in the public eye against the use of one-sided, opaquely spent, public-funded nuclear brainwashing. This is also due to our efforts today's debate, which, of course, is hardly able to offset the billions of atomic lobbies and the government's nuclear propaganda. But we think that we need to take every opportunity for Hungary to hear: Paks only has an alternative. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett applauds.]]
u2014-09-26-2	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the government, Dr. András Aradski will answer. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-09-26-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I consider the line of thought raised by the congresswoman to be very important, according to which we should look at the relationship of interests and values with regard to Paks. That's exactly the two words that have been connected to Paks' name for a long time. It is in our common national interest to maintain the current capacity of the nuclear power plant. Long-term maintenance of nuclear power, as will be discussed today, will make a major contribution to meeting the growing hunger for energy and to producing electricity using other primary energy sources. Our common value is Paks, because the local people working there, the expertise that works there, the knowledge that works there, the solidarity experienced there, are a value-making community both in Paks and in the country as a whole. I note that at the beginning of the week, I had the pleasure of attending the General Assembly of the International Atomic Energy Agency, where it was good to be Hungarian, precisely based on the fact that the expertise of the Paksians, the commitment and expertise of Hungarian nuclear scientists, engineers and technology professionals were valued to the right level by the entire international world and kept at a very high level. In terms of interests and values, capacity growth should be seen on a broader horizon. It is of common interest that the investment is carried out, given that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is a decisive element of domestic electricity supply by providing 40% of the country's electricity needs. In addition, economic and labour market developments that are favourable to investment in Paks are contributing. By creating new jobs, it will be possible to keep significant supplier capacity busy and to allow Hungarian businesses to get into the bloodstream of the Russian nuclear industry. The best view and summary of the competitiveness, professionalism and safety of the Russian nuclear industry is that most of the investments in the world are made by them, they have the highest level of technology, and I have to say that they are competitive with any other group of companies producing and implementing nuclear power plants. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Colleagues! Interests and values: with these two concepts in mind, Paks and the National Assembly have once decided, more than once, that nuclear power will be an essential element of the Hungarian energy mix. Cooperation, concerted behaviour here in the Parliament and in all other forums are essential to reap the highest possible national and local benefits from the investment. We are very pleased that we have the opportunity to defend the justification for the construction of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, that the LMP has created the opportunity to debate, and that we can share our arguments and arguments. [[9.10]] It is certain that the claim that Hungary's decision to set up a nuclear power plant without asking people does not cover the reality of the fact that in the 2014 elections, people decided to ensure a two-thirds majority majority of Fidesz-KDNP's governance that it was obvious that we were determined to set up a nuclear power plant. In this respect, therefore, I do not believe that any public opinion polls can justify a more important, more valuable measure and more than that. That is why I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that we have the authority here to debate this, and we have a duty to debate it, and we also have a strong democratic mandate to implement the investment of the nuclear power plant in a decisive manner in terms of values and interests. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-09-26-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, At the same time, Ms Ágnes Kunhalmi, on behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party, applied for a speech before the agenda: " What is the mandate for? " with the title " You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-09-26-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Budapest, the capital of Hungary, is the city of change. The great events and the great turns of our country have always started here, in Budapest. Many times, in the hope of a better life, a multitude of the citizens of Budapest who wanted freedom and longed for freedom came to the streets when they were faced with oppression. The city is a unique and unique meeting place, the centre of our economy, our politics, our culture, a community with unique and autonomous, independent will and independent political will. That's the thing. Therefore, the Fidesz government's natural opponent is Budapest. Because your government and your party fear nothing more than independent will and independence. You don't know trust, you don't know dialogue, you can't imagine. The only thing they can handle is what they can control. That's the case right now. Unfortunately, the residents of Budapest have now once again found themselves facing a power which, by its very nature, by virtue of their power logic, is unable to bear the independence of the city, the desire for freedom, the love of freedom, its independent political will and its desire to change. That is why, please, you have done everything in your power over the past four years to break Budapest. That's what it was about, please, their cultural struggle, in which no one in the capital was sensitive. This was the case, for example, that the development of Budapest was stopped by a pen stroke; but this was also the question of the crippling under-financing of public transport; or the loss of wealth that was unprecedented in the life of the capital. The state took the capital's former preserved and improved institutional system, schools and hospitals with a feather stroke. And today we see that the state is indeed a bad owner of these institutions. But if we look at how the capital's budget has been practically halved and how the city's economy and management has been weakened in the last four years overall: apparently the Fidesz government and the party do not understand or do not want to understand that if the capital, the country's headquarters, is weakened, then, unfortunately, the whole country is weakened. At the same time, this was recognized by the inhabitants of the capital city. And when this policy was ordered to stop in the parliamentary elections in Budapest and they told you to stop, no further - because in the spring there were more votes and more left-wing votes in the city - then you again abused two thirds of them and hung a new Budapest law to limit your political will! But if you think that's enough, you're wrong. Budapesters do not ask for more from mayors who, for example, pay their own public purchases without an invoice [[L. Simon László: Hunvald!]] , such as Annex XVIII. District Fidesz Mayor, Ughy Attila. But let's watch North Pest, Újpest. There is Zsolt Wintermantel, mayor of Fidesz, who, as a transport councilman at the General Assembly in Budapest, has not spoken in the last four years about metro line 3, which starts there, in Újpesten, while the subway collapses under 400,000 passengers a day! [[L. Simon László: Demszky!]] By the way. How is it, by the way, that if a Fidesz mayor in this country is openly found to be abusing public money, he is violating his authority, why doesn't the State Audit Office appear with the Alert Police immediately during 400 Üllői út? They didn't go out until today. Looks like all they can do is kill civilians. The metropolitans are sick of this politics, and they know they're sick of campaigning for public money, and the Fidesz mayors don't represent the voters in the district, but unfortunately only their own party, Fidesz. But it's not enough for you. According to leaked news, please, even the districts are to be eliminated, and the election, supposedly, instead of the real election, will be conducted to the head of the districts of Budapest. I'm gonna ask after this. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] - Mr President, my last sentence - respectable Fidesz mayor candidates and municipal representatives: what are they asking for? In the spring, the metropolitans wanted to switch, and they're going to change now. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-26-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government.
u2014-09-26-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and Gentlemen, President of Budapest, Madam! Dear House, It seems to me that the Socialist Party is very deeply involved in the fact that they are the only major party in Hungary that has not yet given a mayor in Hungary, as a socialist politician was very rarely even on the starting line in the municipal elections of the capital. If the fate of Budapest had been so important to you, why didn't you have your own mayor candidate here in Budapest for 20 years? You are afraid of one thing, it seems, democracy, the manifestation of the majority of people's will. They must have read the polling data, according to which István Tarlós enjoys half the voter's trust, Lajos Bokros stood at 14 percent, and Ferenc Falus was 11 and panicked on the left that his previous judgment should be respected by Ferenc Falus, the candidate of small and medium parties on the opposition left, as he said that he would withdraw to the benefit of the one who was more likely to replace István Tarlós on the left. And here, it seems, Lajos Bokros is ahead of Falus Ference at his current position, so he should have kept his promise. Ferenc Falus didn't keep his first promise, so we probably can't expect anything else from him. He's the mayor candidate with whom the opposition honored the capital. You have said many times during the negotiations that you would have had many better candidates, but in the end it was Ferenc Falus who appeared as a compromise. You yourself have acknowledged that you, honourable Member, would have been a better candidate for the MSZP. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: I am talking about Budapest.]] But in the end, the better candidates didn't make it. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: I am talking about the Budapest Law.]] It was someone who was at the end of the line, but no one else raised an objection. Of course, you have well-known politicians in Budapest. If we were to ask people to speak to a socialist politician in the capital, they would probably be able to say György Hunvald. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Attila Ughy, Zsolt Wintermantel.]] They might be able to say János Wiest, but someone might think of Miklós Hagyó and the Nokis boxes, because the MSZP contributed to the developments in Budapest, that we knew the concept of developing the Nokisian boxes, but we couldn't finish metro 4 or anything else. [[Agnes Kunhalmi, subway 3.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You say that there will be no developments in Budapest. As you entered this building, you saw here at Kossuth Square that we have now managed to renovate the nation's main square in a worthy manner. [[Lajos Korózs: I have never seen such a beautiful Tisza statue.]] You attacked this, attacked the whole time, to renovate a retrograde of Kossuth Square, a beautiful, modern, well-groomed square for the nation at last. [[László Kiss intervenes. Agnes Kunhalmi: Metro! 400,000 passengers.]] [[9.20]] Or if you look out the windows and look not at Pest, but at Buda, you will see the Castle Garden Bazaar, which was not a wedge for the capital for twenty years, for twenty-four years. Everyone who drove past him said how beautiful he looked when he was a young man and how terrible it is that now he's snuggled under in different places. The Fidesz-KDNP administration, the mayor and district mayor supported by Fidesz-KDNP had to work together to make this happen. As long as you were in power in Budapest, you were given the mayor in coalition, but this was not possible, even though you were on the government, there were two thirds of you in the government, and Gábor Demszky was the mayor. But then you couldn't, you couldn't finish the metro 4 project, you couldn't even start tram 1 and you could still name the suburban developments that were all missed. But the certificate about you, I think the most painful, wasn't said by Fidesz-KDNP, but by a Gábor Demszky himself, who at a conference a few days ago just swung down on your politicians and said that they didn't understand the whole thing, that they didn't understand the operation of capital politics. The one you supported through four or five elections encouraged your own voters to vote for Gábor Demszky, who issued a certificate of poverty for you. I think this is even more painful than the presence of Ferenc Falus, his campaign activity so far, which, I think, will not be remembered for his success in five to ten years, but he may succeed in marketing and advertising books with a single gesture of hand, with which he soaked and burned himself and the parties that marked him at the same time. So, honourable Member, democracy in Hungary is not to be feared. There will be elections, if I count it well, in 16 days, and the metropolitan people will decide who they want for their mayor, István Tarlós, who was able to finish subway 4, during which Kossuth Square was elevated, the Castle Garden Bazaar, among others the Fradi Stadium Or he's gonna recover, trust him, a lot of things. You can clap your hands, you can look down on people who can now go to a game under decent conditions. But it was one of those things that wasn't done in Budapest in a 20-year-old Sleeping Beauty dream. In Budapest, the city is finally built from development sources and cooperation with the government, and on 12 October the people of Budapest will give their views on this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-26-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Demeter, from the Fidesz fraction group, also spoke before the agenda: "Story of Success in Borsod. " You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-09-26-9	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Today we tend to take it for granted that various groups of companies choose Hungary to make investments. There is huge competition on the world market in order to achieve a large-scale vision in a given region. The Hungarian government is making a tangible effort to ensure our competitiveness, and I believe that this trend can even improve in the future. In Gyöngyöshalász, Apollo Tyres is setting up a rubber factory worth 146 billion HUF, creating nearly a thousand jobs, and in Miskolc Takata is investing in the automotive industry, generating thousands of jobs. In Csorna, solar panels will soon open, while in Szolnok a citric acid factory will be built. As an elected representative of the 4th constituency of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, I am very pleased with the government's announcement that the so-called RZBC is also building a citric acid factory in Kazincbarcika. As far as I know, the group produces around 1.85 million tonnes of citric acid annually, including 1,05 million tonnes from China. The products of the RZBC Group were sought in more than a hundred countries and regions, in addition to the European Union, in the United States, Japan, the Middle East and Africa. It is proud that the annual production volume of the future plant is planned to be 100,000 tonnes, so the investment will result in around 5 percent of the world's citric acid production coming from the plant in Borsod. The investment worth 30 billion directly creates 165 jobs in Kazincbarcika, which, I believe, is of great importance for the development of the region and the standard of living of its inhabitants. In particular, this statement may be true - and I would like to express my hope - that greenfield investment will directly create a number of jobs in the region, and that even through Hungarian agricultural suppliers further job opportunities can be offered in Borsod County. However, there is also a downside to the joyful event. Obviously, many people know the proverb that it is not appropriate to adorn themselves with someone else's pen. Unfortunately, however, it seems that the socialist city leadership of Kazincbarcika has not heard this eternal saying, since in the heat of the campaign, without any unwritten rules of the game, the socialist mayor, on the day of the announcement of the investment and job creation, displayed the building citric acid factory on Facebook as a merit of his own and the city's management. Today, this situation has evolved to the point that the future citric acid factory and the resulting new jobs will be advertised on the billboards with the portrait and logos of the candidates of the left-wing parties, even though the real and undisputed fact is that Hungary's government supports this investment by HUF 1 billion. So, on the moral, moral or even legal side of this case, it is not negligible, because we can say that this is a conscious deception of the Kazincbarcic electorate. The politics of left-wing parties in Kazincbarcika, too, has little or no value, but only interests, since they are politicalising "the end justifies the means,'and, if necessary, they are trying to win votes by attacking the government, if necessary, by expropriating the merits of the government. On the other hand, the Hungarian government and the Fidesz-KDNP party association have values, and we are doing the reindustrialization of Hungary, the gradual restoration of the honour of the work, because the wider employment is a key to our future, on which I would like to point out that we are on the right track. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-26-10	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szijjártó.
u2014-09-26-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for your speech before the agenda. At the same time, allow me, on behalf of the government, to thank you for your personal support and assistance in attracting the government to Borsod County and Kazincbarcika. Without your personal consent and work, it would certainly not have been possible to speak in Parliament today before the agenda "Story of Success in Borsod. " I urge you to continue to support the government's efforts to attract as much investment as possible to Borsod County, especially Kazincbarcika and its surroundings. Ladies and gentlemen, We can all see that fundamental changes are taking place in the world economy, and these fundamental changes have created an even sharper competitive position, and countries are competing to attract as many jobs as possible. If we ask ourselves who will be really strong in the post-crisis period, we will probably not be far from the truth if we say that those who can give jobs to as many people as possible will be really strong. [[Dr. András Schiffer: But for so much money!]] This is why it is very important that large international companies arrive in Hungary and create jobs. It's the same in Borsod County. Moreover, this is of major importance in Borsod County because unemployment there is much higher than the national average, according to the latest data it is about 12-12.5%. We are pleased that we have been able to report on two important successes in the past period, since both Takata and RZBC in Japan have decided to make large investments in Borsod County, thus bringing us closer to the government's two strategic objectives, and that is to be Europe's production centre and to attract as many high-tech R &amp; D capacities as possible to Hungary. [[9.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, The importance of Takata's investment is, I think, to the extent that it is an 81-year-old company. It is present in 20 countries of the world, with a total of 44,000 people working, but it is currently carrying out the largest investment in the history of the company in Miskolc. The company's managers do not hide the fact that they view their factory in Miskolc as a reference plant, given that it will be launched after 9 months, so they will start production after 9 months of construction, even this year. In addition, Takata creates 1001 new jobs in Miskolc. And we also know that the automotive industry is the flagship of the Hungarian economy, so if the car industry comes to investment, it can always and overall increase the performance of the Hungarian national economy. The importance of Takata's investment is also increased by the fact that Japan's companies are now playing the second most important role in the Hungarian automotive industry after German companies. This investment is worth more than HUF 20 billion and will give many Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises the opportunity to be suppliers. In March, the Hungarian government decided to grant this investment a HUF 4 billion grant based on individual government decisions. RZBC is one of the largest producers of citric acid in the PRC. The Chinese market share is about 20 percent. They bring a HUF 31 billion investment to Borsod County to create 165 new jobs. The Hungarian government has decided to grant this company a cash grant of HUF 1 billion based on individual government decisions, which will serve the demand of the European market with its activities in Hungary and will use Hungarian raw materials in its production. Therefore, this investment is also important beyond job creation. I respectfully inform my fellow Members of Parliament that the Hungarian Investment Agency, which engages in attracting investments to Hungary, will continue its proactive activities. At the head of the agency there will be a change from 1 October, the former president, János Berényi, will continue his activities in the foreign service, one of our main consulates in Germany. He will be replaced by Róbert Andik at the head of the MBU, who also comes from the competition sector, he was the leader of Nokia Solutions and Networks in Hungary. I hope that another successful professional in the business world will give new impetus to Hungarian investment promotion. Mr. President. Thank you very much for your patience, and thank you again for your help. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-09-26-12	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, MP Jobbikos also applied for a speech before the agenda: " Has the government given up on the countryside? " with the title " You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-09-26-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to inform the House and the general public that, in recent days, a copy of which the Group of the Movement for Jobbik Hungary also gives every Member of Parliament a gift. The Fate of the Hungarian Land [[He's showing it to me.]] Bertalan Andrásfalvy, József Ángyán, Géza Márai, Géza Molnár and Endre Tanka. This work is an unusual business of scientific research. More than once, based on the results of their decades of research, the authors attempt to reveal in a single volume of studies the fate of the thousands of years of history of Hungarian land affairs in the Carpathian Basin and today's developments in terms of the national and ethnic survival of Hungarians. I urge my fellow Members to accept this book from us and to roll it in an inclusive spirit. I am sure that if they embrace only 10 percent of what the book has to say and its findings, they will no longer adopt such shameful laws that will affect a better Hungarian future. We hope that this work can affect their thinking and perhaps help them to understand the historical responsibility that you have in your hands. [[In the notary seat Mrs. Hegedűs Loránt will be replaced by Adam Mirkóczki.]] After all, we all see the results of the decisions of the Hungarian governments in relation to the land and the countryside. The Hungarian village has been destroyed, its strength has ceased. His young people do not stay at home, and in most cases the job opportunities are small. A life worthy of normal life, calm and abundant in public security, has ceased throughout the entire region. But the typical Hungarian rural lifestyle is also disappearing, which has given this nation the strength and supply to survive for hundreds of years. This is exactly what Jobbik's programme aims at: 21st century, 21st century In addition to the technologies of the century, in addition to the standard of living that suits the needs of today, we should recreate the living Hungarian countryside with respect for traditions. This book also attempts and meditates on how this can be created in the 21st century. In the century, and how we can be able to maintain the knowledge and experience of the ancestors, all built up in a modern age, and create a Hungarian countryside that can grow again, where a multitude of children can be born again, and which will be able to be proud again of its traditions, past, and also provide a stable vision of the future. At present, one of the main obstacles to this is the land policy of the past decades, as you and your predecessors have played a significant part of the Hungarian land for the great estate, speculators and foreigners. By the way, Jobbik will change this, and I hope that this change can happen in a number of municipalities from 12 October, and we can start this process. So once again, I would urge my fellow Members to take over this book, and they have all received the letter in which the Jobbik faction has offered it. I also recommend it to the public, because this book is also available in bookstores. I think it really is a replacement work, so I thought it was absolutely necessary to present it here before the agenda, to tell it, and to encourage all of us to learn, to learn from this work, so that they would not make the mistake of their predecessors. For centuries, the question of the Hungarian land can determine the fate of our nation, especially the fate of the Hungarian countryside, which, we all see, is in a shameful state at present. This is an untenable process that could otherwise reach the level from which it will be irreversible within a few years. That's what we should stop now, in time. You have every opportunity to do so, because you have two thirds of the people, at least they have designed the electoral law in such a way that this mandate has finally become two thirds. In any case, the opportunity is in your hands. Jobbik has already done everything in its power to draw your attention to this problem and the public's attention. If I didn't mention anything else, perhaps I'd like to draw attention to our last week's plant law as a closing word. After all, Hungarian politics has been indebted to the Hungarian people for 25 years with this plant law, and you have been promising to submit it for four years now. We could not wait any longer, even though we are a opposition party, we have tabled this proposal and I urge you to consider, accept and adopt this plant law together. This will ensure that the Hungarian land is permanently and forever in the hands of Hungarian family farms and Hungarian farmers living in Hungary, thus guaranteeing the fate of the Hungarian countryside now and forever. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-26-14	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary Viktor Zsigó. [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: That's fine.]] Excuse me, Mr. Róbert Zsigó State Secretary.
u2014-09-26-15	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor; we have known each other for a long time.
u2014-09-26-16	Yeah.
u2014-09-26-17	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to say with great respect to you that the title of your speech before the agenda, the government's resignation from the countryside, is not true. The Hungarian government, the current Hungarian government, has not given up either on the countryside, on rural people or on rural family farmers. What you were talking about, to quote you, was the disintegration of the Hungarian village, the weakening of family farms, the period 2002-2010 Gyurcsány-, Bajnai-eras. It was the practice of the period when Hungarian agriculture was bled out and weakened, and in that period between 2002 and 2010, they almost never took sides with Hungarian family farmers, but always sided with other business interests. However, since 2010, and I would like to remind the honourable Member that Hungary has a government that is working with its actions to strengthen family economies. We are working on improving the competitiveness of agriculture and the viability of the Hungarian countryside. [[9.40]] If I want to put our most important goal in one sentence, then our main goal is to ensure that as many rural people and family farmers as possible can make a living from Hungarian agriculture and that healthy, safe Hungarian food is placed on the table of as many Hungarian families as possible. We all remember that since 2010, the government and the agricultural government have made several important decisions for the goals I have just mentioned. One of the most important decisions of the Hungarian Parliament is the adoption of the Land Traffic Act, the aim of which is to protect the Hungarian agricultural land, and to give the Hungarian agricultural land into the hands of Hungarian family farmers. I would like to thank everyone who has taken part in the preparation and adoption of the law, because it is a very important regulation. You mentioned the Farm Regulations Act. In this case, the preparatory work is being carried out, the experts in the Ministry of Agriculture are working on it, and I hope we can present it to Parliament in this term, the Parliament can discuss it, and we hope that it can accept this law. I would like to remind everyone once again: between 2002 and 2010 it was the practice when Hungarian agriculture and Hungarian farmers were weakened; since 2010, the government, the agricultural government and the parliamentary majority have been working to make the Hungarian countryside more livable, and the Hungarian agriculture has become stronger. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-26-18	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thank you, Mr. Róbert Zsigó State Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for today's agenda to be discussed. András Schiffer, LMP, and other representatives have initiated a political debate: " What is Hungary being deprived of? " The title is given below. Opinion on the initiative of the political debate V/284 received on a serial number. Dear Parliament, I would ask Mr Adam Mirkóczki to explain the course of the political debate.
u2014-09-26-19	Dear Parliament, Allow me to explain the course of the political debate. First, a statement from the representative of the Government will be made for a total period of 40 minutes. The speakers of each political group will then speak in 15-15 minutes, and the first independent Member will be able to speak. After that, further speeches are possible within the remaining timeframe; finally, the representative of the Government will respond to the discussions in 20 minutes.
u2014-09-26-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Allow me to remind you of the main rules of the time-frame debate. The speaking time of the member of the Government who spoke during the debate is expected to be in the time of the pro-government factions. In the meantime, two-minute speeches should be included in the timeframe, with the exception of responding to personal concerns. Point of order speeches are not included in the time frame. On the meeting room information board, interested parties can monitor the use of time frames. I would ask the notaries to keep an eye on it and then to validate it at the end of the debate. Before we begin the debate, I would like to ask Mr István Tiba to explain each time frame.
u2014-09-26-21	Dear Parliament, The time frame is divided into 83 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 46 minutes for the MSZP Group, 37 minutes for the KDNP Group, 41 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 25 minutes for the LMP Group and 8 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2014-09-26-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The government's debate will now take place in a 40-minute time frame. I give the floor to Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szijjártó.
u2014-09-26-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, let us thank the representatives of the LMP for initiating this debate today. This has enabled us to talk at the right time about a challenge that is really the most acute challenge today not only for the European Union but for the whole of Europe. Because the events in our neighbourhood, the armed conflict and the harsh and open violation of international law show that Europe is extremely vulnerable to energy supply and energy security. On the other hand, as a result of the changes in the world economy, we also see that one of the most important factors in the ever-increasing competition for investment is the ability to ensure the balance and security of energy supply, who can guarantee the lowest energy prices. If we add that the world's energy demand is constantly increasing, and the demand for electricity is showing double the increase in overall energy demand, then we can see that perhaps the timing of this debate could not be more current or could not be more appropriate than today. Moreover, energy security and energy supply have now become not only an economic issue but also an issue of energy, but also of sovereignty and national security. In such a situation, when all these factors need to be treated together, we can clearly state that it is the duty of the current government to guarantee the country's energy security while ensuring security of supply, while also ensuring competitiveness and sustainability. That is exactly what you say, my fellow Members, the current national energy strategy. The national energy strategy was adopted by Parliament on 3 October 2011. This national energy strategy requires that Hungarian electricity production should be diversified, i.e. based on multiple energy sources at the same time. The energy strategy also outlines what these energy sources could be: nuclear energy, coal, natural gas and renewable energy sources. Today's debate was initiated by our fellow Members from the LMP in order to exchange views here on the investment in Paks. For this reason, at the beginning of the government's debate, I would like to ask you to allow me to state that the investment in the Paks nuclear power plant in question guarantees in the long term the energy supply of our country, increasing our competitiveness and the success of our sustainable energy policy. Moreover, this investment will be one of the largest investments in Hungarian economic history, so its importance goes far beyond itself. Ladies and gentlemen, It is certainly not a coincidence that, many years ago, the thinking of Hungary's national energy strategy, the interests of Hungary, the possibilities of its implementation, and the role of nuclear energy in the Hungarian energy strategy in the coming years has started to take place across parties, political sides and governments. We can go back to 2009, when a Parliament of very different composition and different sizes was in operation, and in 2009 a decision was taken authorising us to start preparatory activities for the maintenance of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. In fact, on 30 March 2009, the Parliament decided by a serious majority, 330 votes in favour, 6 votes in favour and 10 abstentions, i.e. 95.4 percent, to grant the power to start the activity of preparing for the establishment of a new block or new blocks. [[9.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the national energy strategy, the 2009 decision and the interests of our country's energy security, the government has started negotiations and has concluded several agreements in order to maintain and increase the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. This year, on 14 January, the Government concluded a treaty with the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the peaceful use of nuclear energy, which then entered into force on 12 February 2014, following a parliamentary decision. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say this, and we can all see from the historical facts only that this is not an agreement made out of a sudden impulse, not a hasty one; it is the result of the preparatory work of long years through governments, parliaments and political sides. On top of that, the Parliament decided to do so here at its plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to state that this agreement represents a framework that is capable of meeting all domestic, international and EU legal and security conditions. Moreover, this agreement provides uniquely favourable conditions for maintaining Hungary's energy security. Please allow me to inform you in a few words of the content of the agreement with the Government of the Russian Federation. Firstly, the agreement concerns the design, construction, installation of two new blocks and the return of fuel and used fuel. The agreement also states that Rosatom, the Russian nuclear state authority - if you like it - will be responsible for the implementation of the design and construction works. I would also like to state that Hungary is working closely with the European Union, the European Commission and its relevant institutions to ensure compliance with the European Union's environmental, security, competition and economic rules. In addition, the specific implementation agreements of the Convention will be responsible for recording details of fuel and of operation and maintenance. I would also like to inform you that the volume of investment in capacity maintenance and capacity development is expected to be around EUR 10 billion. We have, of course, also concluded an agreement on the financing of the investment. The funding is provided by an interstate credit agreement signed in April of this year. This agreement was submitted to Parliament on 28 May, which also approved it on 23 June, and the Act on it entered into force on 4 July. According to the content of this agreement, 80 percent of the investment is covered by the EUR 10 billion public loan, this state loan is provided by the Russian party and the remaining 20 percent comes from Hungarian self-esteem. The loan can be used between 2014 and 2025 and the interest rate on the loan is more favourable than we could have achieved on the market. We could, of course, choose between two options in terms of financing. We could have taken credit from the market or the necessary funds. We have chosen the other way, because it is more favourable, and that is why we have concluded an interstate contract with regard to the financing scheme, which - I would like to emphasise once again - was a more favourable solution for Hungary, the Hungarian budget and the Hungarian economy than if we had taken credit from the market. Knowing the details of the negotiations, as I could participate in some of the negotiations and seeing their results, it is no exaggeration to say that Hungary concluded the most successful agreement of the past decades when it signed these two contracts. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, we are receiving cheap loans for a productive investment, which will result in a significant increase in Hungarian state wealth. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We all know very well here in Parliament that this external energy dependence of Hungary is high. We cover 64 percent of our energy needs in Hungary, so almost two thirds of our energy needs are imported. Increasing the country's energy security is a government responsibility that is now a strategic priority and has two basic pillars. One is diversification of energy sources and the other is increasing security of supply. Today, the Paks Nuclear Power Plant provides 40% of the Hungarian electricity generation. If we take into account the extension of the current production units at different stages, we see that there is a need to carry out capacity-building investments in the period after 2037. We also know, according to preliminary calculations, that Paks II. Until the end of the 2020s, until the first two blocks are removed, nuclear energy will have about 50-60 percent of the total Hungarian electricity generation during this period, which will significantly reduce Hungary's exposure to natural gas imports in those years. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I have already had the opportunity to say during the speeches before the agenda on how global economic processes are increasing competition for investment between countries, and it is also apparent that new factors are becoming factors of competitiveness. For example, this is the issue of cheap energy. We must face this challenge. Ladies and gentlemen, according to various surveys, over the last two years, 100 billion dollars of productive investment have chosen the United States over Europe, simply because in the United States, energy prices are virtually a fraction, energy costs compared to those in Europe. The Hungarian Government has repeatedly urged us to have a common European strategy to reduce or eliminate this competitive disadvantage, so let there be a common European strategy on how to radically reduce energy prices and energy costs here in Europe, but there are still no outlines of this, so Hungary must also implement the reduction of industrial costs after the reduction in household rents. The most important task now is to create the conditions for reducing industrial costs. Ladies and gentlemen, From this point of view, it is of particular importance that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant will naturally remain Hungarian state-owned, so the Hungarian government, the Hungarian state, will have a significant influence and a significant role in the price of electricity, of course. I would also like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the realisation of the Paks investment in question is a guarantee that Hungary can provide the cheapest energy in Europe in the long term. When old and new blocks operate at the same time, current preliminary calculations suggest that the cost of producing domestic electricity may be up to 10-13 percent lower. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, However, this is not only a simple investment in electricity, but also the most important economic development programme in recent years. The investment alone is expected to contribute 1 percent to GDP growth, and we have also developed a construction that does not jeopardise the sovereign debt reduction path, which is also one of the fundamental interests of the Hungarian economy in the long term. [[10.00]] We have concluded agreements that are in line with the financing capabilities of the Hungarian budget, and this arrangement will also comply with the debt rule laid down in the Fundamental Law. I would like to draw your attention here to an important aspect of economic development. Several times this week, we have had the opportunity to exchange ideas with the representatives of the LMP on the development of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, in which, of course, we agree that Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises are the spirit of the Hungarian national economy, so the current government has a particular responsibility to give this sector the utmost consideration. Here, I have had the opportunity to speak in an interpellation reply this week - and perhaps also here, before the agenda - about whether the success of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises depends to a significant extent on whether or not they can enter the supply chain of large international companies carrying out investment activities in our country and, if so, to what extent, through which they can also make indirect exports. Well, the investment in Paks is also significant from this point of view, given that the agreement says that we are trying to achieve a 40 percent localization, which means that the Hungarian economy or, if you like, supplier involvement in this investment will be 40 percent. According to various surveys, there are currently 160 companies in Hungary that would be able to participate in such an expansion project as a partner, but there are at least 300 companies that will be able to participate in such an investment with some technological development and technological renewal. Of course, we will try to bring about tangible improvements for as many small and medium-sized enterprises as possible with this large investment and participation in it. I would also like to inform you that, according to our calculations, this investment will create 10,000 new jobs and will amount to hundreds of billions of HUF tax revenues for the Hungarian State. According to our calculations, according to the localisation agreement, Hungarian businesses can receive about EUR 3 billion of orders, which can participate in this project. Moreover, the jobs that will be created during the investment will be highly qualified and well-paying jobs, and not only with suppliers, but also with the start and maintenance of the necessary professional replacement training, many new capacities and jobs will also be created in education. Ladies and Gentlemen, Allow me, for some thought, to linger in this speech in addition to the fact that, taking into account the energy strategies applied in the world, what the Hungarian government has chosen is a unique solution, i.e. how general or non-general nuclear energy and the emergence and role of nuclear energy in national energy mixes are. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you that today, nuclear power plants provide 13.5 percent of the world's energy production. This means that nuclear energy is one of the most important factors in the world's energy production. In the European Union, one quarter of electricity generation comes from nuclear power, but in France, for example, three quarters of electricity is produced by the 58 nuclear reactors that operate in the country. However, I can also give Slovakia and Belgium an example here: in these two countries, half of the electricity generation is provided by nuclear power plants. I would like to quote the statements made by the European Commission's current Commissioner for Energy, Günther Oettinger, who said that there will be no zone in Europe that will not have a nuclear energy mix, and he also said, " On the part of the European Commission, we explicitly recognise and respect any decision taken by national governments, whether for nuclear power or for the use of more or less coal, gas or even renewable energy. The common objective is to reduce CO2 emissions. " Ladies and Gentlemen, Today, a total of 435 civil nuclear reactors are operating in the world. Of which 136 in the western and central parts of Europe, 15 in Ukraine and 33 in Russia. Worldwide, the United States is the list leader with 100 nuclear reactors operating. Moreover, if we look at it, we see that 70 nuclear power plants are currently under construction in the world. Most of these investments are made in China, 29, 10 in Russia, 6, India, South Korea and the United States. If we look at the list of countries that are planning to build nuclear power plants now, we can see that there are 174 such investments in the preparation phase, of which there are 59 investments in China, 31 in Russia, 22 in India and 9 in Japan, showing one of the world's most dynamic economic market developments. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, let me say a few words about Hungarian-Russian nuclear and nuclear cooperation, which goes back quite a long time. The current Paks Nuclear Power Plant is also operating on Soviet technology. Of course, there was also the question of what kind of risk factors would arise if we had installed a different type of technology in addition to the current Soviet technology. I would also like to inform you that our cooperating partner, Rosatom, is the only nuclear energy company in the world that covers the entire spectrum of the nuclear industry, unites more than 250 companies and scientific organizations. According to this year's data, they have 272 thousand employees worldwide and are ranked first in terms of their position on the world market in the construction of nuclear power plants and second in terms of built-in nuclear capacities. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to waste any more time, and I would not take advantage of the 40-minute timeframe granted to the government for my part, but at the end I would just like to say - referring to the title of the debate day - that Hungary has lost a great deal, that it would have lost if it had not concluded these two agreements, because, as a result of these agreements, Hungary's energy security will increase significantly, these agreements can give a further boost to the growth of the Hungarian economy and guarantee the success of our sustainable energy policy in the long term. Once again, allow the President to thank the representatives of the LMP for being kind enough to initiate this debate and to give us the opportunity to say all this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-26-24	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the keynote speakers will be held within 15-15 minutes of each group of representatives. First, I give the floor to Mr János Bencsik, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor.
u2014-09-26-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In the absence of secure and affordable energy, we would be living in a very different world than we have now learned, to which we are accustomed, and in which we are all seeking our prosperity. In fact, if there were no affordable, accessible, secure energy supply in Hungary, washing machines would not work, stoves would not work in households, it would simply not be safe to organise transport, logistics, goods, food, security, agricultural activity, agricultural management, but there would be no heating systems that would be driven by electricity, and if the primary resources needed for heating energy were missing, the heating energy supply of public buildings and residential homes would also be uncertain. That is why today's debate is important, which was initiated by the LMP Group. [[10.10]] But the question that has been asked of what the Paks agreement will deprive Hungary of can be answered, in my view, not to deprive it, but to give the country an opportunity. If you take something away from it, it's uncertain electricity supply. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to begin with some data. In 2013, the Paks Nuclear Power Plant produced 36 percent of the domestic gross electricity consumption, i.e. the total electricity consumption. The Paks Nuclear Power Plant provided 50 percent of domestic energy production and electricity production. It is clear from the difference between the two numbers that the supply of imported electricity is currently required to meet the domestic energy demand. This exceeded 28 per cent in 2013 and was well above 30 per cent in this year's period. If we are thinking straight, we all need to see that this is an unbearable exposure to the security of electricity supply. Over the next 20 years, the vast majority of existing power generation capacities in Hungary, some 6500 megawatts of capacity will be discharged, the power plants will grow old, and they will have to be replaced. As part of this capacity replacement, we are talking about the renewal of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, which, as the Minister has said, will bring in some 2400 megawatts of electricity capacity, and would introduce it into this new, renewed infrastructure and power plant infrastructure system. In addition, more than 4000 megawatts of new capacity have to be built, which will, of course, provide the opportunity to use renewable energies as much as possible. In addition to the 2400, energy policy must provide nearly 4000 megawatts of built-in capacity. Our largest power plant is currently Paks, whose power-generating blocks will be fully discharged between 2032-37. So these blocks need to be replaced with 2,400 megawatts. The increase in energy imports is quite risky. Therefore, increasing the country's energy security is the most important objective, but, as has been said here in the Expoze, economic competitiveness is also a very important factor. There are also political, professional and political precedents to the previous government and parliamentary decision, as we discussed the national energy strategy in an open social debate in the framework of a professional and social debate, which was approved by the Parliament in October 2011. At the time, I had the privilege of participating in his work on a daily basis in the professional workshop, which worked out the national energy strategy. A lot of people know that I don't belong in the camp of unconditional nukes. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's it!]] At the same time, yes to the camp of common sense thinkers. [[L. Simon László: That's right!]] In order to guarantee a safe supply of energy to the country, a number of scenarios have been examined. The best of the possible scenarios has proved to be based on domestic coal wealth, in addition to maintaining nuclear power at the current level, in an increasing proportion and to an increasing extent on renewable energy sources, my fellow Members. We have set a threefold target system: security of supply, competitiveness and sustainability. We have identified five means of achieving the targets, including energy efficiency, renewable energy use, maintaining nuclear power at the current level, maintaining coal and lignite at the current level, and building the regional infrastructure platform, the network elements, in order to obtain access to heating energy from as many places as possible and from more sources. The main reason for choosing these instruments is that we can ensure the threefold goal by adapting to the country's specifics, with the diversity of forms of energy production. Because outside Hungary's current borders, there are resources that could be put in the service of the country's secure energy supply a hundred years ago, so we must take into account the natural features that we have within our borders and what energy benefits we can use them for. Nuclear energy has an essential, safe, cheap fuel for security of supply, and a safety reserve can be built up, and the necessary primary resources can be stocked for two to three years. In addition to Russia and Kazakhstan, Australia and Canada are the potential sources of energy available to countries that use nuclear energy peacefully. It can operate largely independently of external circumstances and has a very high availability rate during operation. From a sustainable point of view, carbon neutrality, i.e. the minimum greenhouse gas emissions that deserve to be mentioned, as well as the low demand for raw materials during the investment, as well as the small territorial need, the small amount of waste, which is managed in the most stringent and transparent waste management system possible in the international context. He mentioned the statement made by Commissioner Oettinger in Prague in May 2013, according to which the common objective is to reduce CO2 emissions, no matter which nation state uses this technology to produce electricity. Therefore, it can be concluded from the above that sustainability is based on carbon neutrality, and in this respect, the use of nuclear energy is competitive, so it cannot be denied to those who take only environmental aspects into account when making their decisions. Each mode of energy production also varies significantly in terms of CO2 emissions. If these emission parameters are taken into account for the entire life cycle, i.e. the duration of construction and decommissioning, then nuclear power plants have one of the lowest lifetime emission values. Higher compared to this is the lifetime CO2 emissions of photovoltaic, i.e. solar cells and geothermal technology, resulting from a shorter life cycle, lower performance per unit and differences in production technology. The same conclusion applies to the raw material needs for the production of technological equipment. Thus, the raw material intensity of nuclear power generation is competitive in terms of unit electricity generation and is in many cases better than the values of other forms of energy production. These positive values are due to the fact that nuclear power plants produce much more electricity over their lifetime than other types of power plants. When the national climate strategy was drawn up, the second strategy one year ago, which also had an open social and professional debate for two months, we also looked at how we stand in terms of raw material needs for the production of one unit of electricity. For the production of the same unit of electricity at the wind power plant, 3768 kilograms of iron are required, 4960 kilograms of iron at the photovoltaic power plant, 457 kilograms of iron at the nuclear power plant. In the case of wind power plants, 63 kilos of copper, 281 kilos of photovoltaic power plants and 6 kilos of nuclear power plants. [[10.20]] For Bauxit, 43 kilograms for wind power plants, 2180 kilograms for photovoltaics and 27 kilograms for nuclear power plants. They all have mining activities and metallurgical activities and emissions, so I respectfully ask my fellow Members of the LMP that, when we talk about sustainability, we fully interpret sustainability and put different technologies together. [[Dr. András Schiffer shows his laptop to intervene.]] This is why we have also said in the national energy strategy that it is necessary to take into account the need to bring together a single, well-managed energy mix using renewable energy, nuclear energy and domestic carbon energy. I would also like to mention the aspect of competitiveness. The European Commission's Directorate-General for Energy has asked the European Climate Fund last year to examine the production costs of the various energy mixes. The study carried out by the Directorate-General for Energy will analyse in detail the expected cost of production of energy mixes of different compositions by 2050. By maintaining the current energy policy, with a high renewable share, a diversified energy mix, which is similar to the Hungarian national energy strategy, the latter was found to be the most favourable on the basis of the scenarios examined; it is an energy mix containing a similar amount of renewable nuclear and fossil-based production, as stated by the European climate fund, which will be run at the most favourable cost of production at European level in the coming decades. Mr Oettinger said in Berlin in November 2013 that there will not be a zone in Europe where there will be no nuclear current in the mix, i.e. the power supply without nuclear power is not feasible. [[Dr. András Schiffer: The German government is also...]] So let's not be deceitful, let's not be deceitful, let's accept opportunities and talents and create a sustainable, affordable and secure mix of electricity in the country, taking national interests into account. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] It is also very important that the individual production technologies do not operate alone, but interact with each other, and therefore the inclusion of renewable energy technologies entails additional costs. It is no coincidence that Paks currently produces electricity around 13 forints per kilowatt, while renewable energy is in the vicinity of 30 forints. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Why?]] At the same time, the government and our faction alliance are not enemies of renewable energy. Over the next six years, we will spend HUF 2000 billion on energy efficiency, renewable energy production capacity development and adaptation to the effects of climate change. So we are talking about HUF 2000 billion, which the government intends to use specifically for renewable energy efficiency investments. I therefore highly recommend to my fellow Members that we welcome this political debate and the underlying content on Paks capacity renewal as an opportunity for the country to ensure security of supply and sustainability [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] , competitiveness and employment. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-26-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-09-26-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, If we have to sum up in a sentence what Hungary is losing with the content and under the circumstances of the Paks agreement, the Orbán-Putin pact, then we can say three things for sure: the Orbán-Putin pact is a pact based on a multitude of lies, resulting in Hungary losing part of its sovereignty, becoming a vassal of Russia, and Hungary losing respect for the more developed part of the world. The latter two are concepts of sovereignty and respect from which Hungary wants more, but the government of Viktor Orbán prefers to give up. We hear from the Minister and others that they have been involved in the negotiations, that they have been convinced, but the vast majority of the country suffers from a lack of information, because the background studies, the calculations that have led to this decision, have not yet been made public. The Orbán-Putin pact is a pact based on a multitude of lies, because it is a lie that Paks enlargement would be the only viable way to secure the future's energy supply. Western Europe and a more developed part of the world are the XXI. In the 20th century, it was not the 20th century. It favors the technology of the century. Lying about the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, the decision of 2009 is that this issue has already been decided, because Parliament has only given its prior consent in principle to the start of the preparatory activity, not to the expansion. The preparatory studies, as I mentioned, have not yet been known, and have even come up with the fact that they do not exist. It was a lie by Viktor Orbán when he promised here in Parliament on 11 February 2013 that an international tender would be launched. By contrast, Orbán made a secret deal with Russia with the exclusion of competition on the basis of a 1966 Soviet-Hungarian interstate contract. It is a lie that Orbán reduces the government debt, as according to the Orbán-Putin pact, the 3000 billion loan corresponds to a 10-percent increase in debt, and it is not 3000, but 6000-7000 billion forints when it comes to repayment. Even our grandchildren will pay the burden of this, as expert calculations show that the amount of repayment with interest, as I mentioned, exceeds HUF 6000 billion. From infants to old men, every Hungarian person owes Russia 600 thousand forints. It's a lie that the new nuclear power plant will produce cheap electricity. According to all energy market experts, the electricity generated in the new power plant is double that of today's stock exchange price, i.e. double that. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a direct consequence of such a pact based on lies that Hungary is losing part of its sovereignty, because the Orbán-Putin Pact has deprived Hungarian people of the ability to decide what economic development, what energy and environmental policy they want to see and experience in Hungary. The Orbán-Putin Act deprived Hungarians of deciding whether they want to be indebted to Russia or not. The Orbán-Putin Pact has deprived Hungarians of deciding whether to develop Hungary in the next hundred years, as Viktor Orbán said, following the development directions of Western Europe, or to be vassals of Russia as a people of half Asia. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2009, as I mentioned, the Parliamentary Decision outlined a process based on a wide range of social dialogues; you did not comply with this resolution. The Orbán-Putin pact puts Hungarian energy policy on a forced course for virtually a hundred years. As you may recall, in February the Parliament discussed the decision determining the energy policy of the hundred years of Hungary, that the Orbán government did not present all its economic, environmental and energy impact assessments, but encrypted them. Instead, the Orbán-Putin pact remained, which basically gave Viktor Orbán permission to make Hungary a Russian energy ring for a hundred years. Without social and parliamentary authority, as I have already mentioned, the Prime Minister, citing a Soviet-Hungarian interstate treaty in 1966, without even paying attention to appearances, has made a secret deal the burdens of which our grandchildren will also moan, perhaps, not only in a financial sense. At the same time, we said that a question of this magnitude cannot be decided in a narrow, but not even on a professional-financial basis, without involving civil society; these arguments have been swept off the table by Fidesz MEPs. We also tabled a draft parliamentary resolution which would have helped precisely the civilian control of the investment. However, it is not a matter of force that must be decided by two thirds, as my fellow Members think and do. The preparation includes not only the professional development of energy, economy and environmental issues for the construction of the new power plant, but also a wide-ranging discussion of them. In our view, it is not possible to engage in such an enlargement adventure, because market prospects are currently uncertain; the world is moving towards a reduction in renewable energy investment costs. In Germany, substitution systems for nuclear power plants have been set up with renewable energy sources at virtually similar costs, but with a faster return. We cannot, because Hungary's ability to attract capital is below that of the countries of the region. [[10.30]] It cannot be because the priority of renewable energy sources must be ensured in connection with grid feed-in. It cannot be because Hungary currently does not have cheap storage technology for the valley period. Nor can it be because, contrary to what Minister said, the need for electricity does not increase so much because of lower economic development. Ladies and gentlemen, By clarifying these issues, presenting preparatory documents, the government is still in debt. But the picture comes together, as a few days ago Viktor Orbán said in this very spot that Hungary was on its own feet, its independence unfolds. On the same day, Minister János Lázár said in his reply to an interpellation or a question that it is a good thing that the Russians are building the nuclear power plant, since 80 percent of our energy supply depends on Russia and - with a steep turn - this investment serves Hungary's independence. On Wednesday, President László Kövér mentioned in a quote from 1848 that sometimes opponents become allies, and sometimes they become opponents of allies. The picture adds up, since the output of everything is that Hungary is dependent on Russia. And we have also heard from Minister Varga what the cost of this is, because the government is silent that during the period of the investment, for seven years, we will need a budget cut of 400-500 billion forints per year, since you said that the cost of the investment will not be included in the electricity price, the loan will have to be repaid from somewhere else, from where else than from the budget. And obviously you also stress that the deficit must be kept below 3 percent, even during the period of investment. [[L. Simon László: You made it.]] This is the real price of the Orbán-Putin pact. That is why the Orbán package will be introduced by the government; that is why it will further reduce family and social support, labour market support, municipal support for child protection, child feeding and public education, support for deprived people, families, unemployed, poorer children. So because of the Orbán-Putin pact, the chances of catching up are being taken away from these layers. Ladies and gentlemen, The route and procedure chosen with the Orbán-Putin pact are also risky in foreign policy terms. It is a serious mistake that my Fidesz fellow Members regard this only as a private matter for the Fidesz and the Moonyard, and they even invented a confused philosophy for Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's sudden Russian friendship. Perhaps, based on the activities of the Orbán government, one of the Russian news portals wrote that if Russia has a real European sister, it is actually Hungary. In this way, the constant war against Brussels can finally make sense. It is important to see that, instead of a multicentre European Union based on network cooperation, who builds on a small country-great patron-big sister relationship, embodying a centre-periphery relationship, he forces his country into a subordinate role. Viktor Orbán has strengthened the latter system of relations and thus forced Hungary into a subordinate role. What will Hungary do if, after the start of the investment and the drawdown of the loans, it turns out that the form of financing is not compatible with the EU State aid rules? How will you resolve these issues with the Russian party through bilateral negotiations? Because disputes must not be settled before an international arbitration pursuant to the convention before us. It is feared that the principle of international law that allows the enforcement of rights on the basis of the weight of the parties will thus be clearly respected. This is not in favour of Hungary. The Orbán-Putin pact offers virtually only benefits for Russia, not for Hungary. If in Poland, where the popularity is particularly high for Orbán, they believe that the Orbán-Putin pact pleases Putin in every way, then they are not only talking about Orbán, but also about Hungarians. And if they think so in Poland, how can they think of Hungary in other countries? Finally, allow me to quote: " Russia's expansion and rejuvenation are a real challenge for the West. A threat, a challenge that can reach the European Union from the point of view of Central Europe, and even reach the military power of the allies. Putin's finches have grown in Europe, and now everyone is beginning to see it as dangerous. " The quote comes from Viktor Orbán. Viktor Orbán is today Prime Minister of Hungary. Orbán said the same thing about Russia not quite seven years ago, that is how he felt about Vladimir Putin, and that is how he felt about himself today. Ladies and gentlemen, Viktor Orbán and several leading pro-government politicians may have considered this when they did not vote for the pact in Parliament because they were not present. They may not be proud of their actions, that they have taken away the possibility of development from Hungary for a hundred years. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-09-26-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Andras Aradski, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary, Congressman.
u2014-09-26-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I had to respond to the speech before the agenda as Secretary of State, and I thanked the LMP faction for this debate, because hopefully with them - at least with them - we can have a meaningful and objective debate about what Hungary is losing by building the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. This question would suggest that we are going to lose the Danube, lose our jobs, lose economic growth, lose our faith in the future, lose our national identity and sovereignty. I suppose that would be the list that Hungary would owe to the construction of a nuclear power plant. But this is far from it, much more numerous and tangible on the other side of the list, what Hungary will gain by building the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. And this list is specific, this list is forward-looking, and it suggests and confirms results that we can at any time justify and accept the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, to be more accurate: the justification for maintaining its capacity. What were the antecedents of this investment? Many of the speakers before me have said that this facility is a continuation of a traditionally established Russian-Hungarian cooperation with scientific and economic foundations, a decision that this facility must be implemented. I must add that in 2009 there was a very high level of unity within Parliament that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant should be maintained by the country, an important condition for the country's energy security, sovereignty and energy supply, and an instrument for the capacity expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. This moment, this direction, is also confirmed by our energy strategy adopted in October 2011, which runs until 2030, but with an outlook of 2050, with a very sure parliamentary majority of more than two thirds. It is an important element of this energy strategy to identify the mix of energy supply in Hungary, energy production in Hungary, and the components of energy sources we need to produce. This includes nuclear energy, fossil coal and natural gas and the use of renewable energy, and, of course, energy needs at that time will be influenced by the stronger enforcement of energy efficiency and the generalisation of energy saving. The main message of the energy strategy was with a rather interesting sentence, but with a very nice sentence of reality and intention, that our goal was to be independent of addiction in the next period. This means that in line with European directions, we want to create Hungary's highest possible independence from external energy sources within the European Union. [[10.40]] This is also in line with the European Union's intentions when, in addition to its desire to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from Member States, it also places emphasis on energy efficiency and the use of renewables. The application of these elements in EU policy means nothing but that the European Union is independent of external energy sources and is able to use energy from its own power as much as possible. This is also justified because, for example, the European Union purchases 85% of its natural gas needs from third countries outside the European Union. Hungary is in one of the worst situations in this regard, because Hungary also acquires it by 85%, mainly from Russian sources. So these aspects, when we say that our goal is to become more independent and to stabilise our energy supply, our energy security, must be to define within the energy mix the means by which we can achieve this goal. I must add that in this respect, the practice of the European Union has given Hungary a free hand, not only to Hungary, but also to other states, in the construction of the energy mix - if it serves independence, security of supply, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions - by what means and by what energy source and energy production the country achieves. So there is no European requirement for this. This fact was also stressed in the first sentences of the German delegation at the Congress of the International Atomic Energy Agency, which was held or is ongoing, that it was also fully accepted for Germany that part of the countries also use nuclear energy production in the energy mix. I believe that all of these, from an international point of view, make it sound that we made the right decision when we decided to maintain the capacity of nuclear power production. What I have to add is that when the first step of this was to conclude the Interstate Agreement and it was adopted by Parliament and incorporated into the Hungarian legal order, the most important message of this agreement is that every sentence, every step of its implementation, every contract concluded on this basis must be designed in such a way as to agree with other EU and international standards. And that, hopefully - and I'm sure it won't, hopefully - will also be the case in the implementation of the capacity expansion of the nuclear power plant. This method is not foreign, it is state aid in the United Kingdom, and it is also under public supervision that nuclear energy is being produced and the construction of a new nuclear power plant, and I believe that it gives sufficient encouragement that the form, the economic model that we are going to apply here, in which we have already decided, will in no way conflict with any European Union norm. But, as has already been said, contacts with the appropriate body of the Union are ongoing in this respect. So, as I said, in addition to the fact that the use of nuclear energy is a very important tool to reduce energy dependence, there is another very important instrument, namely to strengthen competitiveness. It has been said before, and unfortunately this is the case that our competitors on the global market - and not only Hungary is affected by this disadvantage, but the whole European Union - can produce at a much more favourable price, and this competitive disadvantage is therefore not or very difficult for the European Union to overcome. In other respects, too, not only in discussions on the use of nuclear energy, but also in terms of greenhouse gas emissions, it is also a public and very polar and majority position among the representatives of the Union's states that it can be applied only without prejudice to competitiveness, in a more appropriate way, in addition to promoting it, and can also serve competitiveness very well through various transmissions. What I see, and what I can see from the calculations and calculations, is that, while maintaining the expansion of nuclear power capacity, new production blocks will provide a price advantage of about 15-20 percent against the energy price at that time, which is a price advantage, which will in any case cover the return on this investment. This price, this fact, that compared to the price of conventional sources of energy, this price advantage will exist, will be applied, and at this price consumers will be able to use the current of the new blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, which also means that we can maintain the goal and expectation that we have set in recent years that Europe's cheapest energy access should be in Hungary. This is also important, reflecting on competitiveness, so that we can further strengthen our competitiveness and contribute from the energy side to the productivity, modernity and so-called reindustrialisation of the Hungarian economy, which naturally brings with it the fuller potential for employment. It seems to me that the third question, which must be discussed in any way, is worth investing in capacity expansion. I've just told you a couple of things about why it's worth it. Another important element is that the interstate contract itself decides that 40% of the investment should be carried out by local forces, and I have to say that there are many companies in Hungary that are ready and with high technology, some of which already work at the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, but others also work in third country nuclear power plants. My personal experience is that these professionals are very much needed, and there is a great deal of market demand in other countries as well. Now, if we add to this that the launch of the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant as an investment as a capacity increase is coincident with the government programme to use 60% of the EU's resources for economic development and to strengthen their market presence for small and medium-sized enterprises, I think these two impacts will reinforce each other. And it is even possible that we can not only fill the 40 percent value, but even exceed it. All these circumstances generate economic growth in relation to the expansion of the nuclear power plant, strengthening local communities, promoting sport and culture, so its overall social impact, I must say, is far more positive than some Members here in Parliament claim. On this basis, I must say on the part of the Christian Democratic People's Party that, confirming our previous position, we now know certain further details [[Dr. Bernadett Wind and Dr. András Schiffer: Can we get to know him?]] must - I have just said it, Madam Member - compare it with other similar investments, and energy security and sovereignty can be achieved by increasing capacity [[Dr. András Schiffer: Impact studies?]] Therefore, we can continue to support the capacity expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[10.50]]
u2014-09-26-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-09-26-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary of State! The UN climate summit is taking place in New York these days, and President János Áder gave a speech at this climate summit. It may be unusual for me, but allow me to begin with a sentence of this speech. " The Earth where we live, our blue planet is warning us week after week, here and there. He warns us that decades of responsibility should follow after decades of irresponsibleness. " I have now taken this one sentence out of this speech, and allow me to choose it as a motto for my speech as the lead speaker, if not for a purpose such as that from the mouth of the President of the Republic, but indeed, after decades of irresponsibleness, decades of responsibility should follow, and this is particularly true of Hungarian green policy in Hungary. After all, let us not doubt that this day of debate is clearly for political purposes, although this protest against the investment of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant has been concealed in the robe of sustainability. We must clearly bear in mind the interests of Hungary when we talk about this subject. Unfortunately, this must be emphasised, because it is not clear to everyone that we Hungarian Members of Parliament and members of the Government must bear in mind the interests of Hungary when discussing such an investment or when deciding on such an investment. It has been said from Mr Bencsik's mouth that by the years 2020, so that by the time this investment is expected to be completed and generate electricity, thousands of megawatts of power plants will be missing in addition to this nearly 2500 megawatts given by the new Paks blocks, which is because some of our current power plants are planned to shut down by then, because they are old, old, and in their efficiency they are quite poorly performing power plants. This leaves plenty of room for renewable energy, green electricity - no one can question that, of course - but only from renewable energy - this is the opinion and position of the Jobbik Hungary Movement on this issue - it is not possible to replace the loss of capacity. Of course, it is possible to debate it, and my fellow Members from LMP will certainly tell us how much energy efficiency investments could reduce Hungary's energy demand. My position is that certainly not, considering that in recent years there has been a tendency to increase energy consumption rather than to decrease. Of course, energy efficiency investments and related actions are necessary. However, to return to my opening thought: instead of an irresponsible neoliberal green policy typical of recent decades, the foundations for a genuine national-based green policy should be put in place. I know that the term " national" has been quite discredited in recent years, because it seems less credible when it comes to so many things, but this is the expression that we must take into account the interests of the Hungarian nation, Hungary, even when it comes to green politics. Of course, as one of the main slogans of environmental movements says, think globally, act locally, so we should transform green policy here in Hungary as a root, and once again, with a responsible national green politics. Which, of course - as strange as it may sound - includes supporting nuclear energy, support for hydropower, but it also includes important issues which, interestingly speaking to themselves as eco-partisans, never speak of, which are real threats in Hungary, the environmental hazards in abandoned industrial areas and mining plants that have been cultivated for decades, which are ticking under our feet as a time bomb, and in fact, as there is no political benefit at the moment, only after a disaster has occurred, no one cares about it but us. I think that these issues need to be dealt with more, even if they are not on the subject of today's debate. But if we are talking about a real green policy, then we should talk about real threats to the country. The fact that now false green ideas and topics used as a political weapon are taking the space away, taking the breath away from real initiatives that really serve the protection of the environment, indeed the sustainable future, I am not even talking about it, because an entire industry, a whole business, has been organized to draw tender money with green, false green ideas, and to spend billions on projects whose benefits are actually almost zero from an environmental point of view. And, of course, I must also mention the speech of the Hungarian Socialist Party. I think that it would be more difficult to say the more yelling hypocrisy within the walls of this House than in the course of the MSZP's speech on the Orbán-Putin pact. However, I remember when in 2009 Ferenc Gyurcsány had dinner with Putin as Prime Minister of the Hungarian Socialist Party. Then they weren't so bothered about the Gyurcsány-Putin pact. And I also remember that they supported the extension of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and its expansion in the same way, and I'm sure if God didn't give it, but they were on the government, they'd still support it today and say something completely different than what they're communicating right now. But it is obvious that their voting base and the voting base on the left are the buyers of this liberal, neoliberal, antinuclear speech, so it must be said to them at all times and everywhere. It is clear, of course, that this is also necessary because of the overlap between the LMP and the MSZP voting base. [[Noise in the lines of MSZP and LMP. The president's ringing the bell.]] But it is a fact that, at the present time, the proliferation of nuclear power is increasing very strongly at global level, especially in Asia. My fellow Members have always said why new nuclear reactors are not established in the developed West - otherwise there are also new nuclear reactors. Well, unfortunately, we are now talking more of a declining West and a developing East, no matter how much it hurts us to understand it as an Eastern Central European state, but a Western civilization, but that's what it really is. We see that the countries that show significant economic development are all interested in it, and they are all in the process of establishing a nuclear power plant, and indeed they are not contracted with the same Russian company, Roszat, as the Hungarian government has now agreed with. So I am sure that this enlargement would also be on the table if, at the moment, Hungary had a left-wing government by some misfortune. However, perhaps the only difference is that the funds recovered from the investment would not be stolen by domestic, but by various offshore and multinational companies. In any case, the withdrawal of funds is extremely reprehensible, and unfortunately, none of the governments seem to be exempt from it, just to say, the maximum is that they are taken by multinational or national companies or by domestic companies. And the 40 percent they say that the investment carried out by Rosatom will land primarily in Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises will be very, very careful to make it so. This is why we have proposed it in the previous term, and in the current cycle we have re-submitted our proposal to set up a committee - which was later initiated by another faction; however, it is, of course, eligible - to monitor how these funds are being used and whether this Hungarian supplier ratio is actually being implemented and whether sustainability and other requirements are being met during the investment. So this is absolutely necessary. Nuclear technology is expanding worldwide, nuclear technology. Just recently, we read in one of the economic journals that nearly 9,000 megawatts of new nuclear blocks were contracted by South Africa, also with Rosatem and Russia. [[11.00]] The impact of nuclear technology, the nuclear power plant, on the lives of Hungarian people, should not be forgotten to ask the people living in the immediate vicinity of the nuclear power plant, the Paksians. I think if someone today started talking about shutting down the nuclear power plant, they'd probably be chasing it out of the settlement with a stick. For a large part of the inhabitants of the settlement see this investment as a job and a source of income for their families, and, of course, they expect enlargement in the future because they expect new jobs to be created from this investment. And you mustn't let that go. It should also be said that instead of reindustrialisation, as mentioned here in the speech by the representatives of the Secretary of State of Aradsk, Hungary should move towards a sustainable region, and this, in addition to the implementation of the nuclear power plant, means that in the area of renewable energy, we should primarily move not towards solar and wind, but towards biomass and geothermal energy, but with a legislative environment. Of course, it is necessary to restore the growth and recovery of Hungarian agriculture, as we primarily imagine biomass-based energy production with agricultural waste. But it all adds up to everything, so this is a fundamental goal in the programme already published by the Jobbik Hungary Movement on several occasions. So we are not an industrial country, we are an agricultural country, we need to base ourselves on agriculture, the agricultural industry, the food industry and the manufacturing industry in the future, and this perfectly fits the biomass-based renewable energy production, which does not mean the burning of forests, but also the already produced agricultural waste. All in all, I can therefore say that this debate is once again a pro and a versus political goal on both sides. Obviously, the government wants to prove to him how responsible he is when he chooses such an investment, and how irresponsible he is, by the way, the part of the opposition that opposes this investment because it is politically beneficial to him, because there is a significant part in Hungarian society that is afraid of nuclear energy. And you're afraid of nuclear energy because you haven't been properly informed or misinformed about it. Then it will be said again what nuclear power plant accidents have occurred in the world so far. I would like to add that it is unnecessary to give an example to Chernobyl and Fukushima all the time. We all know that every power plant technology has its risks, and it can be said that by far it is nuclear technology that can be operated at the least risk. Much more people died, and this is statistically proven because of damage to health caused by other power plants, such as fossil power plants, such as nuclear technology. Germany withdraws nuclear technology from its market? Yes, it subtracts it, indeed - and replaces it with coal power and coal energy. I started with the climate. How does this come about with sustainability goals? How does this work with climate protection, that's okay, then we're hypocrites, and we subtract nuclear energy, but then we're forced to put coal plants in place and put them into operation. 'Cause the power's gotta come from somewhere. There's no way to maintain the left-wing thinking and misconception that I've always said here that we don't need power plants because the power comes from the outlet. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP. Intercoms from the same place: "You're an idiot." The president's ringing the bell.]] Finally, allow me to return to the President of the Republic's speech at the climate summit. If I did so, I would like to conclude with a quote from this speech in the spirit of a constructive opposition. It is true that he did not speak his own thoughts, but the thoughts of a Nobel Prize-winning Hungarian scientist, Dénes Gábor, I find it very appropriate, and I would ask my left-wing, liberal and Balliberal fellow Members to consider these words very carefully. " So far, man has struggled with nature. From now on, you'll have to deal with your own nature. " I also suggest that you keep an account and consider whether this small political benefit is worth putting Hungary's energy security at risk. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-26-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mrs Bernadett Szél, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-09-26-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Lords of the Minister, Mr. Secretary of State! Dear Guests, First of all, I must stress the importance of the fact that it is finally a debate day in the Hungarian Parliament on the expansion of Paks. Let's just say it would have been nice to have such a debate day before the 2009 decision. But in any case, we can also be glad that in a country that has been driven into all kinds of nuclear projects without anyone asking people whether they want to live with the threat of nuclear energy or not, a debate day can be created. However, I was a little shocked to hear these speeches. And before we feel sorry for the Germans here, who are, at present, Europe's second largest exporter of electricity, let me tell you that they have already created 130 thousand jobs with Energiewende, i.e. by 2020 and will create 207 thousand jobs. All this by strengthening Germany's sovereignty, greening the country and using secure energy sources. I think that this country should not be sorry, but rather be seen as an example of what they have done. But let's take a look at Denmark, for example. Not long ago, the country was operating on electricity produced by wind power plants for a whole day. Not so long ago, in December last year, practically half a month was covered by wind power. And I must add that the share of green energy in Europe has increased five times over the last ten years. As a result, the market was oversupplyed and free market prices fell by 60%. What does that mean, fellow Members? What does this mean for Hungary? For a country that has chosen a completely different path, thanks to you? We're trying to climb a train that last rumbled about 30 or 40 years ago, isn't it, nuclear energy? The nuclear coalition worked through governments. No one in this Parliament has ever actually examined whether there is another way for Hungary or not. Look around this planet. We have about 400 nuclear power plants, most of which were built in the 1970s, and since the second half of the 1980s very few nuclear power plants have been built on this globe. It turned out, because there were accidents, as much as I'd like to sweep it off like this, there was Chernobyl, there was Three Mile Island, here recently was Fukushima, and they proved that this energy source is not as safe as engineers and professionals say. Moreover, it is much more expensive, as I would add, since the 1950s, we have not found a solution to the permanent disposal of waste from these nuclear plants. Even my great-grandsons will see these trash. Even they will be puzzled about how they can get rid of it. That's why we greens say it's not a legitimate source of energy. Because we're leaving behind waste that even future generations may not be able to do something. Then let's go back to Europe for a while. Meanwhile, the share of nuclear power in all electricity generation is only 28 per cent and is constantly decreasing. And you know why? Because the price of nuclear power is constantly increasing. On the other hand, there are sources of green energy, the price of which is constantly falling. This has been the trend since 2009, my fellow Members. Germany, Italy, Belgium, Sweden and Switzerland have already declared their own nuclear release. And there is Austria, which has always been of the opinion that it will not use nuclear energy. And, you know, these states didn't say they didn't use nuclear power because they're more limited than we are. No. It's not that. They do not wish to unleash on society the dangers and the costs of nuclear power. What risks are we talking about? Look, I understand that this is a fixed idea for you to develop atoms and greens side by side, but not on this Earth, there is no country on this planet that could have developed its atomic capacity and green energy at the same time. Do you think Hungary will be the first? In fact! There is no other country on this planet that wants to increase the share of nuclear energy as much as you, my honourable pro-government colleagues, have forced me through the Hungarian parliament. [[11.10]] Please understand: if you are building a nuclear power plant, you will in practice give up renewable energy sources. And I have to add that Fidesz's responsibility in this is huge, but I have actually just found out recently about the answer to a written question that wind power plants have not been built in this country since 2006. In 2006, we had another government. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] That's why I keep talking about the nuclear coalition, which is why I keep talking about the political elite here. [[Noise.]] closes us up in order to push society into the nuclear project. In addition, unfortunately, the answer has also shown that in the near future we cannot expect significant wind energy investments. And do you know why? Because the government says it's expensive. What exactly does the government have to do with this? Private investors are lining up to create wind farms in this country. [[Intercoms in the pro-government benches.]] Let's check the prices. Currently, the aid is HUF 17 per kilowatt hour in wind power plants. They know that Attila Aszodi, the Paks II expansion [[Intercoms in the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] What calculations does your government commissioner have on what the support for the Paks electricity price will be when Paks II is built? They'd pay 27-31 forints. I think 17 forints is less than 27-31 forints. Then, with all due respect, why do you guys spend 17 forints? I say this mainly because the depreciation of wind power plants is much shorter than that of nuclear power plants, and wind power is already running for 8-9 HUF, which is much cheaper than the current Paks electricity price. Why do you keep these things quiet, fellow Members? Creating jobs. I think that no one in this country is attached to the nuclear power plant - except for a few politicians and who will benefit from it. I think that people want jobs in Paks and in every Hungarian city, village, farm, big city, everywhere. And I can also tell you - and you can be sure of that - that green energy can give this country much more jobs than a nuclear expansion. Let me give you a calculation: this whole Paks investment will cost us about 7500 billion forints. If what you're counting is true - even though I couldn't get your calculations in court myself - this would be 10,000 jobs. Then a job would cost 750 million forints. Is it worth it? Do you know how much a small and medium-sized enterprise currently receives as a support in Hungary? 2.5 million forints. I think it's time for you to see that this misconception and deception can be justified by very simple numbers that it doesn't work. It doesn't work, and it doesn't work because, for example, there are researches, completely independent research, research institutes - for example, the Századvég research institute had one of these research projects, which it described at a conference - that in Hungary energy use could be halved, we could use half as much energy if we isolated this country. I looked it up on purpose: you promised in the 2010 government programme that by renovating 10 percent of the housing stock you will create 80,000 construction jobs, it will pay off in ten years. Compared to this, a few thousand apartments were included. If they do so, then of course we will not be able to move forward, of course there will be no jobs, but LMP calculated: we could create about 50 to 100 thousand jobs in this country, if we were to isolate this country, and then we would finally not be heating the Hungarian streets with Russian gas, and we would not have to use so much climate, which is also very energy-intensive. I would like to add another sentence to today's agenda. I have listened with respect to Mr. Secretary of State talking about the appreciation of Hungarian nuclear scientists, but there is another side to this coin. I know a lot of young Hungarian engineers who want to deal specifically with green energy. They want to learn how to create power plants in a spirit of environmental sustainability. Where can these young Hungarian engineers study in this country today? I hear from all of them that he will go to Germany, and I think that if these young Hungarian engineers go to Germany to learn that, they will stay there, they will not be able to come home, because they will not be working on a nuclear project. I would like to ask you with all due respect to young Hungarian professionals who would like to put something on the table for the benefit of the nation, for the benefit of all of us. To add, it's still not too late, we can still turn our backs on the puppy road. I think - and we don't have to argue with each other - that this country has wanted to belong to Europe since St. Stephen. I'm asking Fidesz to remember what St. Stephen's warnings used to be, not so long ago. [[L. Simon László: Don't build a nuclear power plant!]] Thank you.
u2014-09-26-34	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to independent Member Gábor Fodor in an eight-minute time frame.
u2014-09-26-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Let me indicate immediately, at the beginning of my speech, that I will share the time frame at my disposal with Mr László Varju, who would also like to speak. So allow me - I thought it was important to say this at the beginning - to speak in outline at the time; it is difficult to dig into the depth enough for this important topic in four minutes. So if you'll excuse me, I really just want to point out why we liberals think the government is on the wrong track. You're on the wrong track and you're leading the country in the wrong direction about the Paks contract. Well, I would like to summarize our position on six points. First of all, this concept is flawed, the agreement is wrong because we are making an alliance with a Russia that is conspiring with a country that is currently breaking international law. You, fellow Members of the Government, expect Russia to comply with the Treaty that you consider to be beneficial when it proves to the world that it does not comply with international treaties and does not comply with international law. We conspire against our allies, against the European Union and NATO, to take action against the Western values that we want to represent. It's a political and moral mistake. So we have to interpret the entire treaty in this context, so we believe that liberals believe that what the government is doing is a serious mistake. Second: Minister Péter Szijjártó also said that, among other things, he thinks this treaty is good because it guarantees the independence of the country. Let's be clear: you don't guarantee it. Unfortunately, we are dependent on Russian gas, but in the context of the treaty, we will depend on Russian credit, we will depend on Russian technology, and we will also depend on Russia because the fuel will have to be returned by Russia. So you're pushing the country into another dependence. Do not deceive yourself: we are not going on the path of independence, but we are going back to being more dependent on Russia. Thirdly, we must not go past the issue of what technology the Russians will build here. We know that Fukushima is also expected at international level for nuclear power plants to be at least natural disaster-proof and earthquake-proof. The Russians can't build this, so let's be clear. They can't! There is no level of Russian technology to meet international expectations. Fourth of all, the electricity won't be cheaper. It is an insult to think that the electricity will be cheaper, since remember that exactly the government commissioner you have appointed, Attila Aszodi, said in a background discussion these days that "in the first years, I quote, we will have to pay double the expected global electricity price for the investment and bring relatively cheaper electricity only decades later. " So it's not true to assume that the electricity will be cheaper. Fifth, we need nuclear power. I myself am not anti-nuclear, but I think that the country should not go in the direction of expanding its nuclear capacities, but in the direction of promoting the spread of green energy. Green energy is the way of the future, and we can preserve our independence from anyone on the energy front if we build on it. For example, the country's geothermal energy is unused. Finally, it is worth considering the expansion of nuclear capacity, because when you were still in opposition, you supported all kinds of referendum ideas, as I remember Zoltán Illés, Zoltán Illés, who, for example, spoke in combat on this issue. As I said, I am not and the liberals are not anti-nuclear in place, but this country rightly expects that there should be a referendum on the expansion of nuclear power capacity. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-09-26-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. So there are four minutes left for the independent Members, and I understand that Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi and László Varju will share these four minutes; they will take place according to rotation. I now give the floor to Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, the first of the speakers that have been announced, Fidesz. [[11.20]]
u2014-09-26-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I believe that so far the debate has made it clear that, in principle, the positions are not primarily technical, not primarily - I must say - technical, but explicitly political. The opposition speeches made today made it clear that the arguments put forward against nuclear energy are based on nothing other than the fact that the Hungarian domestic political relationship changed after 2009. For if we recall, in 2009 Hungary had broad support for nuclear energy both in the political world and in society. In society, this support - I say - still exists today, and the majority still understands and wants Hungary to pursue an independent and nuclear energy-based energy policy. What was said in one sentence did not contradict all the things that János Bencsik gave in his main speech in a completely professional, objective, clear and clear manner. Here there are political lounges, but arguments that would be able to refute the sound and clear points that János Bencsik has actually put forward have simply not been made. Therefore, for my part, I would like to limit myself to three things. The first thing I don't understand is the first thing I don't understand. The kind of Russian phobia we are experiencing here today, especially on the part of some who have their own past to exclude this reality and reality, I must say, is quite simply incomprehensible. Russia and the Russian Empire, which has been a dominant part of Europe since the Napoleon Wars, simply cannot be regarded as something that would unfortunately become the central enemy of Hungary. To take such views, I believe, is a political suicide. All of Europe is clearly on the ground of reality, and when the Hungarian government decided on the ground of reality to choose the way to ensure energy independence for Hungary through nuclear energy, I think it has chosen the right path. I would like to make it clear that when there are different arguments here to explain why nuclear energy needs to be completely replaced and replaced with alternative energy, and examples are: Germany, Denmark, Sweden - please look at them geographically, all countries with coasts, where the use of wind energy is completely different, such as in Central Europe. That's one of them. [[Sallai R. Benedek: Switzerland is among them!]] Secondly, perhaps you should look at how we stand economically and in terms of resources in relation to the examples listed above. Today, these countries can afford to use energy sources with clearly and clearly different goals than the kind of transformation of energy sources they are talking about on the opposition side. It is about, yes, how to create jobs in this way, extremely expensively. It can be said here that I ask with respect why one price is so high, why the other is so much, but we have to pay for the differences that appear in alternative energies today at the moment of receipt. However, Hungary does not say that they are not necessary; they are very needed. Only because of their long-term exit, this country needs to find energy sources on the ground of reality that provide the next one - and this is the second part that I would like to talk about. I am sad to hear that more people here are talking about the future and opportunities as if not only Hungary was not on the verge of development, and its economy in the future would not only be improving, but would be regressing and needing less energy than it is now. I am saddened to hear this because it is clear to me that the growth and strengthening of energy sources is necessary in order for the economy to grow. If we lose sight of this fact, of course, in this case we can think of freezing energy consumption or even reducing energy consumption, and the economy will slowly and slowly reverse. Our objective is clear: economic development must establish its energy base. Last but not least, and perhaps this is a warning to all of us: the Paks Nuclear Power Plant has been operating smoothly in recent years, with European recognition. The only malfunction that has arisen has been dealt with with with great security - let me add, also due to the excellent performance of the people working there. I especially feel that there is a kind of unjustified and unfounded attack against them, that just when this malfunction occurred, there were people on the right, on the left, who, hiding in a green jersey, were completely unrealistically trying to refer to disaster and try to visualize disaster. I must reject this kind of policy and thinking, because Hungarians must not think about how such a disaster, which I believe to be quite small, will happen, but should clearly think about how to maintain the situation by giving appreciation to the professionals, to all those working there, on whom we build this Paks and the next. In this respect, I believe that there is still something to be done, because it is indeed the case that the selection of the Paks professional team can never be a clear political task, the task of the profession is essentially the task of human reliability, because let us see that all of the disasters referred to here and which have occurred in the world have been caused by human failure. It happened because of all human failures. Fukushima, too. They were design flaws, serious design flaws, and design flaws that were clearly attributable to human failures - this is now recognised by the Japanese. And that's how it's shown in every single case. So security, I think, is a fundamental requirement, and it must be guaranteed, as far away as possible. But let me give you one more argument. I ask: why is it that the world's great green movements are so quiet that the type of oil transport that is diving in the world today slowly and slowly ruins the seas of the world? Still, it's so quiet. And if a disaster occurs somewhere, they are still noisy for a few months, and after a few months - God knows what kind of consideration and what kind of background - there will be deep silence about it. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett's intervention.]] Let's take a look at Shell's case somewhere around Mexico. I think that if we put all this on the balance, we can say that it is in the country's eminent and first-rate interest that Paks work, that Paks's operation is ensured, and that our energy sources expand and do not shrink, because that expanding energy source will enable Hungary's economy to rise. This aim, I believe, must be to make good and full use of energy sources. For my part, I therefore believe that the opposition should also review its position and clearly and clearly support the construction of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant for a common national objective. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-26-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Gábor Harangozó, on behalf of the MSZP Group.
u2014-09-26-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Let us look at the effects of the Paks Treaty on the development of the countryside. Did anyone even think about what we had to compete with? You know, I worked in a dairy farm in the Netherlands where, in addition to operating in a well-organized cooperative, this dairy farm itself, with which it was already competitive, had the right to set up wind power plants and to generate significant revenues by selling wind power to the network. This means that not only are they significantly more marketable because of well-organisedness, they are more competitive with their dairy products than Hungarian producers, with additional incomes and additional energy revenues coming in, they will wash us out of the market at any time. Or let's look at a German meat factory with solar panels on top of it, and with the energy revenue from solar panels, they complement their economic activity, their core activity, and they can be up to 40-50 percent more effective than a Hungarian meat plant. If we have to compete with this in the future, Hungary cannot give up on the rapid development and support of these technologies. Does this contract, this technology and this funding make this possible? But it was said here in the keynote speech of Jobbik that you should think globally, act locally. [[11.30]] Let's see what that means. Most rural households cannot spend their income on the consumption of local services or products because it immediately flows out of the area through yellow cheques. Thus, local economic development is hampered by the fact that much of the income generated cannot be used locally, but is used to compensate for the supply of energy from outside the region. The impact on local economic development should therefore also be taken into account when considering energy investments. A central power plant, whether highly efficient or not, provides electricity at a relatively low cost, the service compensation is in any event passed out of the area. That is why we should focus on renewable energy production, the development of regional supply systems, the energy modernisation of rural and small-town institutions. Regional power plants producing renewable or renewable energy can not only prevent income from coming out of the region, but also provide additional income to the communities concerned. In Austria, for example, the example of Güssing is known, where, based on the energy plant in a disadvantaged region, not only their energy self-sufficiency has been solved, but they have provided support from the extra energy income to the resettlement plants, and today they are not only unemployed in the region, but they are moving from Hungary to work, as this energy plant has been able to induce such development that they could start local development. In my own constituency, Tabon, for example, the planned wind farm, which was blocked by Fidesz regulation, would mean hundreds of millions of years of revenue to Tab. Tab is a complexly disadvantaged region. If support could be provided annually to local entrepreneurs out of these hundreds of millions of forints, jobs would not only be preserved, but also market jobs would be created. In contrast, market jobs in the region have been lost to thousands in recent years. The production of renewable energy, the collection of biomass, the planting of forests, the renovation of forests, the environmental industry and the management of waste could provide additional employment for many people living in rural areas. If I approach the problem from this side, it seems that there are several alternative sources of energy that can be achieved at a lower cost and give jobs to at least three or four times as many people in the production sector as, say, a large nuclear plant investment. We should turn to new technologies that would enable us to explore a new energy base. Solar panels are expensive for the time being, and the storage of electricity is not quite solved yet, but whether this will be the case in ten years' time. I would like to point out that in Italy today 8,000 megawatts of solar energy are being produced despite this. Hungary is above a huge thermal energy base. Would it not be reasonable to deal with the increasing use of this enormous potential? Development money should be spent on this, bringing the best engineers into a task force, as they do in the development of technologies in the West. I consider this path to be the most viable, especially because local economic development based on regional energy production would give a tremendous boost to the start-up of the rural economy. Paks II. its current funding model and technology do not allow this to happen. But investment without competition does not just deprive the countryside of development opportunities. Last year I attended a trial when the South Korean delegation was in the Hungarian Parliament. They made the offer that if they could build a nuclear power plant in Hungary, to the same extent as the nuclear power plant investment, they would bring technology transfer to the country, which would provide a quality leap to the Hungarian economy, which would break out of the cheap construction and assembly status. If that was the alternative, there'd be something to talk about. This technology, implemented with Russian money, cannot be an alternative for Hungary, it cannot be a question. Finally, let me quote German energy politician Michael Müller: " Energy efficient technologies and renewable energy are shaping the following wave of development. We must not just target energy, but all areas of resource and energy use must be included in the energy-efficient revolution. This will create a new dynamic that will not only reduce pollution but also lead to more markets and jobs. Opportunity is huge. In the manufacturing industry, the cost of the working factor can be reduced by 22 percent, and on the financial side it can be saved by more than 40 percent. This gives our country a new, positive perspective that encourages people. Let's take our chances. " Ladies and Gentlemen, If the question is what the Paks agreement will deprive Hungary of, then this is what it will do. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2014-09-26-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next pre-notified speaker was Mr András Aradszki, State Secretary, on behalf of KDNP.
u2014-09-26-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'll try to pick up where I left off the lead speakership. It was left out of the speech that when we created our energy strategy and adopted the specific energy mix to base Hungary's energy supply on fossil, nuclear power plant and renewable energy sources in the long term, I was sure that, in addition to the need to expand the capacity of the Paks nuclear power plant today, the question of what will become of the other two, which should we focus more on, which is the hopeful element of this energy mix for a real economic policy breakout. Of course, there is a conflict of political and economic position here. We are talking about political positions in Parliament, as opposed to the energy strategy, which, after careful professional preparation, thanks to Mr János Bencsik, then Secretary of State, has formulated a comprehensive energy strategy up to 2030, but which will continue until 2050, in which it is inevitable - I stress, it is inevitable - to play a role in the use of renewable energy sources and the use of renewable energy for the benefit of Hungarian society and the Hungarian economy. Another element of this is the maintenance of nuclear power. They're not mutually exclusive, and I have to say they're strengthening each other. Because they both have a weakness. The fact that nuclear energy is not as strong as, say, energy from fossil fuels and, on the other hand, the stability of the service for renewables, is whether we can expect in the long term the amount of energy it produces or not, this is a very big question, and in any case the question of energy storage is not solved. I must add that the reactors used or planned to expand the capacity of Paks are much more controllable than the nuclear reactors currently in operation. So from this point of view, we are in a much better position than we were. [[István Gábor Bellozó: No, no, no!]] Thus, the scale and spectrum of electricity production can be much better controlled, much better adapted to actual consumption needs. Another important thing is that the news that two new reactors are being built here and the capacity is being expanded, the interest of the traditional energy-producing market has moved. Although no specific offers have yet been made, it has moved to believe that conventional coal and other fossil power plants are being renovated, upgraded or new ones will be installed, because without this, a secure energy supply cannot be achieved. [[11.40]] I mentioned this 4,000 megawatts. The majority of this 4000 megawatts can also be produced from renewable energy, and this must be gradually turned on by the Hungarian energy generation, and the Hungarian energy strategy also includes this, on the condition that the applicability of this depends on the strength of the economy and on the regulation of the system and technological developments. In Hungarian, this means that we are counting on renewable energy, but not in a manner of falsifying, not rushing, because we are not so rich [[Intercom from the LMP lines.]] And we're not as strong as, say, Germany. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Hungary performs better!]] with significant State aid and population burdened [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] State aid to ensure the recovery of renewable energies, which solves the problems of energy storage through the use of networks from other neighbouring countries, with an unexpected and unjustified burden. We're not that rich. I must also add that I fully agree with the speakers before me that indeed, this sector, its technical solutions, is rapidly evolving, is rapidly improving, and it is hoped that the problem of energy storage will also be solved. But please, in this situation, we have one thing: if there is such an innovative idea in the Hungarian minds and there are adequate, verifiable results in the inventions that provide more useful and better use of renewable energies than the international average, then we must take it by hand and support it. We need to look at these, and we need to ensure the renovation of this, the introduction of this system, together with the issues of system governance and regulatory certainty, nicely, in a balanced and pre-planned manner, so that it causes as little shock to the system as possible and to a lesser extent risk to stable security of supply. Otherwise, on the basis of the Hungarian energy strategy, we must be ready in any way, and in this respect I must say that I can tell all politicians who demand that renewable energy be distributed to us that we do not accept this, and this will continue to be part of the target in the future, so that we will deal with this. [[Dr. András Schiffer steps up to L. Simon László and hands him a T-shirt.]] We need to achieve that, when this is introduced and spread as widely as possible, the price disadvantage that renewables currently face should be as small and as little as conventional electricity, including electricity from nuclear power. I mentioned in my previous speech how important safety is in the operation of the nuclear power plant. I must say, and this is an internationally recognised fact, that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant security system will stand the test of time. Even learning from recent or distant past mistakes, they are looking proactively for risks, and these risks are minimized or perhaps eliminated by appropriate regulation and discipline. I believe that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant security and protection system is exemplary at international level. Even the experts of France with a very strong nuclear industry and nuclear capacity acknowledge this, and, as I mentioned earlier, the International Atomic Energy Agency is particularly counting on the expertise of the Paks. Within this framework, the transfer of security issues, the dissemination of the methodology to other nuclear energy professionals in third countries is a major market opportunity, and in this respect it is also beneficial to start investing in capacity maintenance, because we can almost pass on the experience of new regulatory solutions and their applicability in the future to third country professionals who intend to do so in the process. I also have to add that there is a very significant economic potential in this security and regulation issue, which, as I said, Paksians are doing excellently. The issue of funding has been raised, especially on the socialist side. This is a EUR 10 billion loan. This EUR 10 billion has a great result: a productive investment will be created. A low-cost, efficient, environmentally friendly investment in the form of a capacity expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant will be created. And it's gonna take a long time to pay it back. I would like to remind you that in October 2008 the Socialist Government took out a EUR 14,8 billion loan from the European Union and the European Central Bank to pay teachers' wages, judges' wages and pensions next month. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's why you now loan the country 3000 billion!]] So 14.8 billion were not actually hired to create value, and we had to pay it back in four years, and we paid it back; with the help of the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian people, people's diligence and dedication, it was possible to pay it back in four years, while economic development started here in Hungary, with a 3.9 percent increase this year. [[Dr. András Schiffer: How do we repay this?]] Compared to this, even citizens with simple mathematical abilities can clearly see that if we have been able to pay back the 10 billion in four years, I think that the 10 billion that we have to repay for the capital only after the first megawatt production can be paid back, even at the expense of the price of the energy produced, and will cover this. So I think that the voices that are presenting an economic crisis, a budget collapse and the country's indebtedness are not true, alarms. The example is before us: it was able to repay 14.8 billion in four years under the leadership of the previous Fidesz-KDNP government. So from this point of view and wherever we are looking at it, this kind of debt - and if we compare the level of interest that it is going on, let us say, the credit facility offered by the Russians is much lower than the level of interest rate - I must say that it is fully justified and, as I said in my previous speech, it can serve the development of the economy, stability, security of our energy supply and strengthening our independence. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-26-42	Thank you very much, Congressman, Secretary of State. Mr Gábor Orbán, State Secretary, would like to speak for two minutes. Mr. Secretary.
u2014-09-26-43	Thank you very much. Mr President, I asked for the floor for two minutes because I would like to clarify one important thing that was said in the speeches by its Members. I think that it would not be good for the further debate if the Commissioner's comments on the future expected price of electricity were turned out as before. First of all, I would like to say that the price of electricity is determined on the world market, so in Hungary we would have to build 200 reactors in order to influence the world market price. This is about the cost we're going to be able to generate electricity with the technology we're talking about here. The question is whether we can generate competitive electricity instead of importing it, it would be right, because if we import uranium, it can be done under significantly better conditions, more flexible and less addictive, as if it were electricity or natural gas. [[11.50]] I would like to suggest it from the point of view of the correct comparison, especially since the public and all other information is missing from the honourable Members, so that they pay more attention to what the Commissioner says and describes, because during his lifetime, this reactor, which is 60 years, is expected to have an equivalent cost of production per kilowatt between 15 and 17 forints per lifetime. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Where is the calculation?]] I've found this since March on my own, without any help. on the website. I highly recommend to Professor Asodi these calculations. [[Dr. István Józsa: That is not true!]] The question here is where the world market price is expected to be compared and whether the investment will be repaid in this respect. I can say to both questions that yes, it will pay off, and the market price is expected by everyone. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-09-26-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to Congressman Gyopáros Alpár for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2014-09-26-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have listened to Mr Gábor Harangozó's voice with interest and sympathy until the conclusion, because he expressed his wish or dreams that, in addition to increasing the capacity of green energy, the government would pay greater attention to energy efficiency in terms of the countryside and villages. The thing is, Congressman, these are not dreams, desires or needs, but these are facts, this is reality. In my constituency, in recent years, we have handed over from week to week a development related to green energy, for example, the last time in Répcsemere, a solar-powered dry-cleaning equipment, or, for the last time, a kindergarten in Farad, which has been fully upgraded, modernised in terms of energy efficiency, and in the walls of this House just this Wednesday, it is also a fact that the Hungarian government supports the construction of the solar cell factory in Csorna by a billion HUF. I would like to tell the Member that, in recent years, the Hungarian Government has spent tens and a hundred million forints to make these investments, not only in recent months, Mr Sallai, but also in recent years. If there is a constituency, your constituency, where you do not see it or do not meet it, I must say that you do not represent the interests of your constituency well, but I am very fond of seeing you in my constituency, I would like to invite you to Csorna and Rábaköz, to show you these investments. Please do not dismiss the efforts of the Hungarian Government that are real in parallel with the nuclear capacity expansion in terms of increasing green energy capacity and energy efficiency. I welcome you to the Rábaköz. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-09-26-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer for two minutes, Mr Group Leader, LMP.
u2014-09-26-47	Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The fact is that in February there was a conference at the Academy where Attila Aszodi spoke about the electricity price of 27-31 forints, referred to by you, and the conference also had a price of 36 forints, and we know that in Britain and Turkey, where there were similar types of enlargements, the price was well above 30 forints. But I'm willing to believe you - at last put your calculations on the table after months, put down on the table the impact studies that were hidden when this shameful pact was pushed across the House. Come out with the buttocks, show them the calculations, don't hide, don't hide, don't have to go to court - put your calculations and impact studies on the table. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-26-48	Thank you very much. The next scheduled speaker is Mr János Volner, Member of the Jobbik Group.
u2014-09-26-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, If you will allow me, I would like to give a brief overview at the beginning of how we have come to today's debate, how Hungary is building a nuclear power plant, and what political changes have been made in the field of energy over the past period. Today, there have been a lot of political show events here in the National Assembly. András Schiffer distributed T-shirts as representatives of LMP to Fidesz MEPs. Just as Secretary of State L. Simon László got a T-shirt, he smelled if anyone was sweating in front of him. [[Defiance.]] [[Defiance.]] But then the answer was no, so he might even wear it. (Faintness. ) It was full of events like this today. I think we're gonna have some surprises here. In any case, it is worth seeing whether reliability, stability, can be said to be the property of either the left or the Fidesz on very important energy issues, because energy is an investment for a very long term, a national strategic interest. It is worth looking at the changes in behaviour in one or two priority projects, what the Balliberal Coalition said during its own government's eight years. He said it was necessary to build a nuclear power plant. A government decision has also been taken on this subject under their own governance. Now the MSZP is in opposition position, saying the opposite: there is no need for a nuclear power plant, they no longer understand what you want. Well, that's the interesting thing. The Left's view of the nuclear power plant has changed 180 degrees. [[Dr. András Schiffer: They're not the only ones!]] There has been a complete turnaround in this area. It is also worth seeing what Fidesz said, say, about the construction of the enormous South Stream gas pipeline in the summer of 2009. Leading Fidesz politicians said that the South Stream gas pipeline contains an anti-European idea, an anti-European idea, and Fidesz does not support it. And what do we see now? Fidesz is the most enthusiastic supporter of the construction of the South Stream in Hungary. The same thing happened. What does the Russian side see? What does the international public see? What do investors see? They see that politicians in Hungary, whether on the Fidesz or on the left, are unreliable, because their party positions Depending on whether they are in government or opposition. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's right!]] Jobbik was the only one to have both nuclear power and these long-term contracts [[Dr. András Schiffer:]] As regards the construction of the South Stream gas pipeline, for example, it has consistently maintained its politically sound opinion. The price of electricity was a regular issue in this debate. What makes electricity expensive in Hungary, and why is it expected that it will continue to be expensive? It has to be seen that the government has introduced a system of sectoral special taxes, and since 2010 this policy has been announced, which is, by the way, a Eligible thing, taxing the energy sector. The energy sector is hitting a tax burden that simply cannot be competitive in Hungary. The share of import prices is increasing in Hungary, during the peak summer periods, the country acquired 80 percent of its energy needs and electricity needs from foreign sources during certain periods. We're quite simply at the mercy of the moment. New capacities are not created because the state penetrates the energy sector, introduces regulatory price regulation, reduction of overhead costs, a lot of things, but he does not make a ounce of money himself to create, I would add, energy investments, plant constructions other than the nuclear power plant. There is a decayed Hungarian power plant park, which is increasingly competitive at international level, and foreign competitors are pushing down Hungarian energy companies under water, they cannot compete with them under such conditions, and the state does not define what sectors and exactly what means it would like to penetrate. What we're seeing now is the construction of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, which is something that Jobbik welcomes. But how did the contract take place? Not in the way that a man with a democratic commitment would expect to have a social consultation before him, there is a professional dialogue, transparent, transparent process leading to contracting, but Viktor Orbán disappears one morning, even the Fidesz MEPs are not aware that the leader will go to Moscow, and there he will conclude an agreement with the Russians, a secret agreement that Hungary will build a nuclear power plant. The question is why this could not be done in a transparent way, supported by professional support and informed the public accordingly. Unfortunately, we haven't had an answer to that yet. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] It is also worth looking at who it was, which party it was, whose professional proposal it was, a constructive professional proposal for the construction of the nuclear power plant. Please, the Jobbik! The Jobbik. We were the only party that had a proposal on how to finance the nuclear power plant. [[12.00]] What proposal did the government choose from among their own? The government has committed itself to Hungary's debt to Russia, to borrow from the Russian party, and to fully finance this share from foreign sources. On the other hand, Jobbik said that, as in Western countries, a state-run capital fund should be created that is capable of competing with zero-close real returns on bank deposits at return level, and currently attracts the population's savings in bank deposits of HUF 6,000 to 7000 billion with higher yields to build major investments in the national economy, such as the construction of a nuclear power plant. I myself have done quite a lot of international securities market transactions when I was an entrepreneur, and there seems to be a lot of similar solutions in the world. However, the government is not on this path, we do not need to involve domestic resources, we are not relying on our own resources for such a major investment, but we are asking foreigners to give us a lot of money on credit. I want you to look around the country and see where the government debt has led, which has continued to grow in this cycle. Where did this lead? Constraints, poverty of the population, the destruction of industry, the degradation of agriculture. This is the way the government is going to continue. It is also worth looking at what makes the 40 percent Hungarian supplier's share available for the construction of the power plant. At the beginning, the government was talking about a 30 percent share of Hungarian suppliers, and now it's 40 percent. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, how serious, internationally competitive Hungarian industrial companies are who are able to produce this 30-40 percent share of Hungarian suppliers in the construction of nuclear power plants. Where is the Hungarian industry that can do this? Destroyed, he's gone. The Hungarian industry, as such, has practically been destroyed in the quarter century since the change of regime, and the socialist government and the government of Fidesz have also made a very serious contribution to this process. The question is, how does this 40 percent supplier figure out? We're not the only ones who don't know that. The government doesn't know that. As the better chair of the Committee on Enterprise Development, I will take the initiative to raise this issue to Parliament, to examine in time what will make the 40 percent of Hungarian suppliers available. I will invite both the representatives of the government and the leaders of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant to the meeting of the Enterprise Development Committee, and, if possible, the representatives of Rosatom, to inform the Hungarian public about the Hungarian adaptation of Rosatom's Hungarian supplier program, as at present, there is no way to hear from the government any preparations for this. I looked at all the government news portals, there was one thing to see: they were looking for Hungarian suppliers - with a grim result, I add - there were very few Hungarian companies who could even suggest being able to transport them to the power plant. I also went to Paks myself, to talk to the technical manager in charge of enlargement, a well-trained engineer with international experience. Unfortunately, he also said that Hungarian industrial capacities are practically equal to zero, which should now be developed almost from zero. What's the solution? Technology transfer through the establishment of Russian-Hungarian joint ventures that are able to bring the technology needed to build the nuclear power plant, the appropriate ratings to Hungary, and in this way we can do our part in the construction of the power plant. In this respect, the government has not taken virtually any steps, although - and I recommend to everyone - the construction of a nuclear power plant has also been the largest order of the Hungarian economy for a very, very long time. And the question is, if it is the biggest order, the biggest order of the Hungarian economy, then why is the government not taking meaningful steps to ensure that Hungarian industrial capacities can develop in this area. Technically, nothing happened. Why not create a growth loan programme from the sources of the National Bank of Hungary, which would give these companies a favourable loan opportunity and help them to raise capital, catch up in this area? György Matolcsy, the right-hand man of Viktor Orbán is currently sitting in the seat of the Hungarian National Bank. The first growth loan programme will be announced, and the second pillar will come shortly later: HUF 701 billion will be allocated, HUF 701 billion as a state-supported loan to various companies. It is worth seeing how much Hungarian small businesses have received: businesses with fewer than ten employees received a total of HUF 18 billion as a new loan out of this HUF 701 billion, the rest of the money was basically allocated to close-to-government companies and to foreign-owned medium-sized companies that settled in the country. Ladies and gentlemen. In a country on the threshold of construction of a nuclear power plant, it is not possible that businesses operating in this area do not have sufficient resources. You can solve this everywhere in the world, but even though Viktor Orbán became the right-hand man of the President of the Hungarian National Bank, we didn't even get anything on this. I would like to ask you to consider these replacement proposals, to start up the necessary programmes; because this is what the national interest wants, this is what common sense wants. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-26-50	Thank you very much. Welcome to you and everyone who monitors our work. Here comes Congressman András Schiffer, LMP. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2014-09-26-51	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In 2009, the Gyurcsány government at the time, which was about to resign, put forward a resolution proposal before the House, which contained nothing but the National Assembly giving a blank check to the government at the time regarding the expansion of the Paks. Of course, the socialists voted for it as a governing party, and Gábor Fodor voted for it, but let us see a miracle who did not vote for this proposal for a resolution authorising the Paks enlargement: for example, our colleague János Bencsik, who was now the lead speaker of Fidesz. So I think that the minimum reason for a sensible debate would be that those who change their position so easily, where their sitting point is, might also be accounted for in front of voters. And if we go on in time, we see that, after Parliament has sealed this resolution proposal on 30 March 2009, and Viktor Orbán has gone to Moscow on this proposal for a resolution - what do we now see in the news? On 26 February 2010, let's see a miracle, Prime Minister Gordon Bajnai says that Paks enlargement is a national strategic issue. And what did we read in 2008 when Vladimir Putin's dog was licking the then prime minister? Orbán spoke, as has been said here, of treason, of eastern peril, about Ferenc Gyurcsány selling the country to the Russians. Now, get out in front of people, and don't make a fool of people that the half-life of the memory half is far below the half-life of the waste that Paks produces. [[Dr. István Józsa: 40,000 years!]] Dear Parliament, It's very easy to say that Paks doesn't have an alternative. There is an alternative, there are concepts made in Hungary: the " This is the way forward" at ELTE! " Research group Greenpeace's [Revolution] paper, and in Germany - Germany, the German Government, it may be terribly funny to Congressman L. Simon, I think it is tragic - while Germany's energy demand is much greater than that of Hungary, it has prepared a programme for nuclear power to be driven out. At present, however, Germany needs to use 40 percent less energy than Hungary for a unit of GDP growth. Why is Hungary constantly lagging behind EU development? Maybe we should look for reasons here. As long as energy efficiency is in this state in Hungary, there will hardly be any substantial economic development. And something else is not worth hiding: the nuclear coalition is working, the nuclear coalition has been operating since 1990. If we look at the fact that the funds that were paid to Attila Aszódi's research institute, whether to Viktor Szigetvári or Ferenc Gyurcsány, for various communication and marketing advices previously, say, that the various governments would have spent on research into renewable energy sources, perhaps today could be much more effective, for example, at least partially replacing nuclear energy with renewable energy sources. [[12.10]] Dear Parliament, There was no mention of that, or of our fellow Member Aradski, who is having some important telephone conversation right now. [[L. Simon László: Unsportsmanlike!]] He said only half of that, that there is a HUF 3000 billion item - Congressman L. Simon, the fact is that I don't usually make phone calls here in this Chamber, you know! [[Dr. János Fónagy: No, you keep going out.]] - to increase your public debt. This sovereign debt is not covered, as is the 3000 billion that has been crushed by private pension savings. What's behind this is not marketable, it's unfit. The question remains how and when Hungary will repay this HUF 3000 billion. And let me tell you something else: when Jobbik here recommends that we call in Russian investors, and since we've already made a deal here with the Russians on the expansion of the nuclear power plant, has anyone on the government or the National Security Committee assessed that if there is such a commitment to Russia, what long-term national security risks are there for Hungary? If any future Hungarian government wants to do something against Russian interests - since we have heard from the Prime Minister that foreign policy is about net interests - once the Hungarian interest conflicts with the Russian interest and while there is such Russian influence in Hungary, how will this work? We haven't heard anything about that either. And we didn't hear anything either, Mr. Secretary, that after Fukushima, you can look yourself in the mirror and say calmly that this is a secure energy source. [[L. Simon László: That's right.]] Thank you very much.
u2014-09-26-52	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State L. Simon László asked for the floor. Secretary of State, please.
u2014-09-26-53	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Let's get used to Congressman Schiffer yelling all the time and ordering everyone around. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: He didn't even scream!]] Congresswoman! [[Dr. András Schiffer: You were the one who yelled at me!]] I didn't interrupt, Your Honour. I intervened. There's a difference. And I was referring to his two-minute speech, where he was definitely yelling. I was the only one who didn't get the floor because I was two minutes old when I should have done a proper speech, as Mr President warned me. And I'm also glad that Congressman can always lecture our representatives on who's calling, who's not. I think everyone should mind their own business. Professor Attila Aszódi, Commissioner of the Government, is one of the most expert Hungarian experts on the subject, sitting in the expert box. He has no right to speak in accordance with the rules of the house, so on behalf of the government, it is my duty to protect him and repair slides. My fellow State Secretary Orbán has done this in part before, but there are some things that it doesn't hurt to make clear here, because you always operate with the data as your argument system seems to support it. [[Dr. András Schiffer: You should know!]] But you are not interested in reality at all, ladies and gentlemen, neither in reality nor in the will of the Hungarian electorate, in your opinion, nothing, you operate with what you believe can be operated on. Government Commissioner Aszodi also made it clear that the expected cost for life will be between HUF 15 and HUF 17 per kilowatt. [[Gábor István Bellozó: Come on!]] Let me get this straight. [[István Gábor Bellozó: The truth, the truth!]] He made it clear in many of his speeches. At the conference that my fellow Members referred to, it was said that if we were to operate the power plant for 21 years, we would have 30 forints per kilowatt hour. [[Dr. István Józsa: It's not true! I need 50 years!]] But since we plan to operate this power plant for 60 years, this is much less than I said, between 15 and 17 forints in terms of lifetime. You're here with the German examples. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind came up with such nonsense that for one day the power supply had already been supplied with wind power. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Denmark!]] Denmark. But there are similar experiments elsewhere. As if the year were not 365 days; as if the Germans had not spent EUR 20 billion a year to make up for the additional costs of wind or renewable energy sources. That is to say, taxpayers' money is being used to compensate in some way for the damage caused by uncompetitive renewable energies. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us also make it clear that the accusations that are being made here - and then, Mr President, you were shouting at us to carry out feasibility studies, to draw up the numbers, in accordance with the custom of the Member, who shouted here - I can say that, of course, detailed studies and detailed economic calculations are available. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Where?]] I'll tell you. You do not think that, in such an international negotiation process, when we are about to enter into a very important strategic agreement, the Hungarian government will disclose details and calculations, making our own business position worse, do you not? [[Dr. Wind Bernadett, give it to the National Security Committee.]] You don't really mean that, do you? The information that already belongs to the public is on kormany.hu. [[Dr. István Józsa: No!]] And the information that you rightly request - we do not say that you are not right to ask - will be presented to the public in sufficient form after the conclusion of the contract. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: What contract?]] So I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that the Hungarian Government's clear intention and purpose is that Hungary's energy exposure should be as low as possible. Our aim is to provide permanent cheap electricity to Hungarian citizens, and in the interests of all of this, we are conducting negotiations that do not include details and economic background calculations at the moment. But, of course, later on, we will also go public with these, if necessary. That is why I ask you not to cut, to stay realistic, to take into account what voters think of all this in Hungary and with what authority we have been sent to Parliament. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-26-54	Thank you very much. This is how the speech enriched with the debate on style became exciting. So we can now speak freely to Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi, an independent Member. Congresswoman, you have two minutes.
u2014-09-26-55	Thank you very much. Fellow Members! Even at the moment of conclusion, it was clear that the Paks Pact was one of the worst, to say, historical mistakes in many of Viktor Orbán's bad decisions, which determine our fate for decades. The Paks Pact would not have been born if Hungary's question of energy supply had been discussed by the public on the basis of such environmental investigations, with significant forecasts on the electricity market. However, none of this has happened, so the Paks Pact is all about Putin wanting to export a nuclear power plant to Europe, and the Fidesz government is assisting. This decision will push generations into the arms of repressive Putin Russia, bringing every family into a new foreign currency debt [[L. Simon László: The IMF loan was better.]] and commits Hungary to Russian nuclear technology. In recent months, the situation has only escalated. Russia of Vladimir Putin began an armed conflict in neighboring Ukraine. Soon the question will be again: Hungary's leaders will put our country on the winning or losing side. Secondly, when the pact was concluded, it was already clear that the Prime Minister had resigned from the fight against sovereign debt in Moscow. The Hungarian debt ratio has risen again to historical heights in recent weeks. Hungary's debt will continue to deteriorate with the effects of the Paks loan. Unfortunately, thanks to the government's secrecy, we are suffering from a serious illness called Paks blindness. [[Defiance.]] It's a very dangerous disease: we can't see where we're going, someone's leading us by our noses, and we'll suddenly realize we're standing on the edge of the abyss. It'll be nice to wake up from the Paks blindness. Don't just talk, show me those documents. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-26-56	Thank you very much. It is now possible to speak for two minutes. Secretary of State János Fónagy asked for two minutes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-09-26-57	Thank you, Mr. President. Allow me to make a few facts. Japan has been mentioned many times, Fukushima. On 22 September, four days ago, Obucsi Juko, the new Japanese Minister for Economic and Industrial Affairs, said that they will return to nuclear power plants, also in addition to the experience, because after the nuclear power plants were shut down, the retail price increased by 20 percent and the price of industrial power increased by 30 percent. [[L. Simon László: Where is Schiffer now? Dr. Wind Bernadett: Ask him.]] I say to Mrs President that there are examples of parallel development, take a look at Britain and develop the two areas in parallel. [[12.20]] By the way, the local production and local use that I consider important in terms of the system of wind power plants: in order to replace Paks 2400 megawatts, we would need 7,000 megawatts of wind power plants, as wind power plants have an average utilisation of 25 per cent. So much for the business. Secondly, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the right, as opposed to the fact that humor, spirit and arrogance are two different genres. That's one of them. And the other thing is, since Juvenalis, we know that only the ox is consistent. If circumstances change, I'll change my mind. I didn't have to defend myself, I was in favour of it before 2010, by the way, along with my colleagues in the government at the time and representing the profession, who said that Hungary's energy supply, cheaper electricity, national independence can be secured by reliable energy sources. I'm just asking you not to throw that in other people's eyes. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-26-58	Thank you very much. We will go back to the speeches we have announced, and I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Riz, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2014-09-26-59	Thank you very much. Mr President, Indeed, a few hours after the debate began, the masculine enthusiasm and the gentle charm of the girlish allure are now mixed. However, let me say some things as a mere fact. Recently, we visited Germany on the invitation of a company who held a discussion on energy strategy and energy situation. One of the largest German investors, which operates in Hungary and has its parent company in Germany, wanted to see exactly what the closure of the 77 nuclear power plants announced by President Angela Merkel meant in the future. Like Mrs. Bernadett Szél, I am concerned about the future of our children and of my grandchildren. It is not indifferent to our growing up in Europe, in a clean, reliable, secure Europe, but also in a Europe where energy security is a fundamental right, which is a livelihood for them in their daily lives. It is also important to know that, after the 2009 crisis, about 30% of energy demand was projected in the energy market. This has to be covered somewhere. Today, energy overproduction and energy demand are emerging at the same time in Europe. This varies depending on the time of day, season and area. As the congresswoman mentioned Denmark, I can say that I have been there, I have seen wind farms that serve green energy halfway through the sea in Hamburg and Denmark for part of the country. But I also saw in Germany the German government rethinking the rebooting of some of the domestic coal power plants, precisely to create their own diverse energy security. Congresswoman sitting next to me lives next to Miskolc. It's a wind farm or a windmill that's in the area where it spins or doesn't. The locals say it's okay if it doesn't spin and then drive with an electric motor. Where the wind is available at a certain time and in a certain amount, it is obviously appropriate to deal with it, see the surroundings of Győr and Kisaland. But in our neighborhood, Borsod, there is no alternative to using wind energy at industrial level. However, energy security is an alternative and it is an alternative to rethinking our own mineral wealth situation. The Hungarian energy strategy has been published several times today, and I would like to refer it back to this. To the trinity that was formulated in it, the creator of the strategy in relation to the atom, coal and green, treated side by side, according to your importance. I would like to say one more fact, which may, in the long term, appease Mrs Bernadett Wind's soul. Hungary invests 16 percent in the price of energy, precisely for the financing of renewables. That was less than 10 percent before. Thus, a growing margin in energy is helping as many renewables as possible to enter this particular energy mix. Indeed, the government that manages the Paks development that provides energy security to large consumers at the same time is responsible, but it treats local opportunities in the same way, see in the Miskolc area - once again a local example - the usability of geothermals. Everything must be applied there and accordingly, which is optimally available. However, large consumers are not indifferent to the sensitivity of the market. In the long term, we must be able to guarantee them energy security, as well as for the population. So there's no alternative for Paks in our proposal. There is an alternative to what degree of security is the energy that now provides 40 percent of the country. I've been down there with several fellow Members for about three years. The power plant management there has strengthened us - since we were already beyond Fukushima - that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant can provide security conditions beyond Fukushima. I reassure the congresswoman that the future of our children and grandchildren is safe in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-26-60	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Ms Anita Heringes, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-09-26-61	Thank you very much for the floor. I am speaking to you now as the only representative of Parliament in Paks. In 2009, we jointly gave the principle of authorisation to prepare new blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, for broad social consultation, for professional preparation and for the preparation of background materials. As Paks, we have spoken several times over the last five years, and you, your government, have been called upon to start developing the region, training professionals, supporting the preparation of entrepreneurs, if you are serious about the new blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. It's been a waste of time for the past four years in the life of the profession and the city that they can't give back to us. The Russian party's intention was to seek 40 percent involvement of Hungarian businesses, professionals, suppliers and contractors. This would require 500-600 engineers with Hungarian professional experience and thousands of qualified Hungarian skilled workers, who not only need to be trained, prepared by our country, but must be placed in Pakson and its surroundings, and provide them and their families with peaceful living conditions. In order to achieve this, you have done virtually nothing in the last four years, leaving the city, the Hungarian professionals. Yet the Paks are the proudest of the professional knowledge and skill they have had in recent decades. We have Pakson first in professionalism, and in the past, party politics has overdone all of this since you've had it. A few days ago Miklós Seszták visited Paks, where he said that Paks does not exist without the government's support. He's been going to Paks a lot, and for him in the past, Paks has been nothing but a small gray town. If the minister were not only on the freeway and on Route 6 but also came into the city, he would see the beauty of our town and see how prosperous this small town is. As a capitalist Paksi, I challenge myself, for ourselves, to call Paks a gray town, which gives more than half of the electricity produced in Hungary stable and safe. Pakson has always been the first to have expertise and security. You know, it's not a screw factory, it's a highly prepared, professionally impeccable profession, engineers only. It's the Paks Nuclear Power Plant where there's no mistake, and it overrides all party political interests. Miklós Seszták said that Paks is not where he should be. This is your responsibility. You've wasted the last four years. According to Minister Seszta, the development of the city requires government support, along with government leadership, a Fidesz municipality. Over the past four years, you have had everything you need: a two-thirds majority of government, a majority of county assemblies and eight years of Fidesz Paks municipal majority. At all levels, they had every opportunity to live with it and not just abuse it. They don't deserve that majority again. Pakson must be the first to have expertise and professional knowledge, not only in the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, but also in the Paks City Administration. Party loyalty cannot override professionalism. You have managed to force this atmosphere and this style into the city and the power plant. You have to understand, this is a factory, a system where you can't fail. There is only room for precise, precise professional decisions. And it must not affect the development and preparation of the region by the colour of the city's management. [[12.30]] My fellow Members, your minister did not really think that it would depend on when and how much support the city will receive in the future, whether the leadership, the mayor and the majority will belong to your party family. Please withdraw this statement, Minister. Paks is stable, safe and well-functioning in the interests of the country. You can't be influenced by petty party politics. Instead of making party policy decisions, we Paksians expect you to make professional decisions in the next period.
u2014-09-26-62	Thank you very much. It's time for Congressman Sallai R. Benedict, LMP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-09-26-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I have very, very little time, so I'm going to talk faster. [[Defiance.]] Here more people have said how good it is to have a debate, more people have started by saying how good it is to have a debate day - but what day is it when they have six or seven times as much time to present a page as we do, and here we have to share two or three minutes? [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] I wouldn't call that a fair debate. I'll start with the reactions. Minister Péter Szijjártó began by saying that a long time ago there was a cross-party thinking at national level. That's what we don't feel. And Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács confirmed this on the scale of national support. I don't understand one thing. If you are so convinced that all this is well founded and supported by society, why are you afraid of a referendum? Why don't they go along with the public's opinion on this? Mr.Péter Szijjártó said that this is Hungary's most important economic development programme. Yes, that is our problem, too, that this is the most important economic development programme. This takes away the possibility of normal economic development in the country. By 3,000 billion, there are relatively many things to do. It could be a question of how a diversified system in rural areas can provide energy supplies so that they adapt to local conditions. Where is geothermal production, where is the potential of wind energy, where is the potential of biomass? But you're afraid to examine this. This is what happens when they steal money from innovation, when they're afraid to think about what other options we have, but someone said that nuclear power is good, which they told us a long time ago, so we don't think about what other options we would have. And that's what gives us great, great concern. The Minister also spoke about small and medium-sized enterprises. I don't know how many small and medium-sized enterprises there are that deliver high-energy improvements, but what is important is that in rural areas, as widely as possible, there are as many places to develop that adapt to local conditions. And these aren't typically high-energy interventions. János Bencsik, as a highly respected and beloved expert, passed the loyalty test at Fidesz to say all the things he said, to which I congratulate him. But let's face it, you've given a very, very long description of what works with the power supply; you didn't mention the drill and the voting machine, so I wanted to say. We could say these things for a long time, but there is also a debate here, and we also need to talk about whether we need this energy and not just what goes on with energy, but what is produced with it - this is what the debate is about. And that it's not about what we're getting the power from, it's about how much energy we need at all. All these opportunities, which you are now spending with these resources, are taking away the opportunity to reduce this need by many, many family homes with many, many energy efficiency interventions. They announced this week that they could spend 1 billion dollars on energy efficiency improvements. 1 billion, 20,000 households in a country where 3.7 million households should solve their problems? It's totally unacceptable! You've started to list the various chemical elements. You can list the whole periodic system from me, but it's still not elegant to highlight some, because there's probably another ten that would require less than the production of nuclear power. But specifically, the use of uranium, plutonium and barium did not mention how much it would take. So why don't you give me these examples? And then he told me how we were gonna dispose of this: 50 years? A hundred years? How much energy will it take to handle these? And that's why these examples are slipping. I cannot help but reacting to Mr Lajos Kepli, who also mentioned climate policy aspects in his speech. This balloon has already been said here, Prime Minister, how good it is for climate policy, and the only thing that is forgotten is that if we look at the creation of a complex life cycle analysis of the entire power plant, what we need to deliver, what we need to take away, how we manage the transport and disposal of the fission material, then the complex energy demand for our climate policy is as bad as using pure fossils. So, overall, this is not better in the whole life cycle analysis. The fact that there are such things in the operation itself... [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] My time is up. My time is up, well, yeah, that's right, when there's very little time for a faction. So I would have said that Paks has a supporter at the local level; this is very sad if Jobbik's job creation strategy was to put a nuclear power plant wherever it needed to work. I need them all over the country. I should have talked about professional things, and I agreed with Péter Harangozó on a lot of things. (To signal:) Gábor, it's okay. I'm sorry. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2014-09-26-64	Thank you very much. Mr László Varju, an independent Member, has the floor. Congressman, you have two minutes. Here you go.
u2014-09-26-65	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, In fact, we need to clarify the question why you brought this here, and why we need to talk about it. One of the reasons for this may be that two blocks should actually be shut down, and we need to replace this with a new energy source. However, the installation of this is 2035. So we have until 2025 to think about it calmly. So don't rush into this, we still have a chance, we still have time. There is another possibility, which is about the fact that under Fidesz's governance, it is not really expected that there will be a need for energy expansion, because they cannot produce substantial growth, at most periodically, but otherwise not meaningful. We're gonna stay in a hawkland, so there's no need for you to rush for that. But let us look and think that there may be a government where there is substantial growth and a real increase in energy is needed. In this case, however, there are the reserves that are in the power plants that are currently being shut down, there is in geothermal energy, there are a lot of unused opportunities that the European Union would support, for example, rather than you taking credit for this, and this will burden Hungary, the Hungarian nation, for many, ten years. Now, after that, you've created a situation that we need to support by forcing enlargement, ignoring the opinion of the nation, the experts, in a mysterious agreement, without a substantive debate. I think that this cannot be supported. You've been here for the past week. [[L. Simon László: Time!]] There has been a lot of talk about dishonesty and accountability. You're acting unfairly, and you can't avoid accountability. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-26-66	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Robert Balázs Simon, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2014-09-26-67	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The latest publication of the International Energy Agency's World Energy Outlook clearly shows that availability of accessible and affordable energy is a prerequisite for economic processes in most countries. The most important question at the moment is, therefore, as Minister Szijjártó mentioned at the beginning, whether the European Union is losing its competitiveness, because this is largely dependent on affordable energy. On the part of the opponents of nuclear energy, it is often said that Hungary has two roads for future energy supply: either nuclear energy or renewable energy sources. This approach is technically wrong, since it exists only together, and this is a common path between nuclear energy and renewable energy sources, since these are not mutually exclusive technologies. In order to achieve competitiveness and climate protection objectives, we need to rely on both modes of energy production at the same time in the future. We therefore need to see that nuclear power generation cannot be triggered only by the use of renewable energy sources. In Paks' example, this means that, for example, if solar power plants were used, the 2000 megawatts of current blocks could only be replaced by the installation of 14 400 megawatts of solar power power plant capacity, which would require more than 13 thousand billion HUF of investment costs. I would also add that such projects can only be recovered in 15-20 years by receiving 60% of the investment costs from European Union or domestic sources in addition to nearly three times the Paks electricity take-over. Some thoughts on economic issues. There are concerns on the part of the opponents about the repayment of the loan [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] but I would like to highlight the EUR 10 billion loan from a different perspective. [[The president's ringing again.]] Our country between 2008 and 2009 is a socialist... [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]] [[12.40]]
u2014-09-26-68	I am very sorry, Mr Congressman, you have asked for a two-minute speech, and you have already exceeded it by ten seconds. Try again. Now, under the rules of the House, it is up to the opposition, and I give you a two-minute speech. Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik, please.
u2014-09-26-69	Thank you very much. I would answer or respond to Congressman Sallai. I did not expect Mr President to make such a misinterpretation of my words, since we also have very constructive and good debates with each other on the subject of nuclear energy, even in private. Obviously, the impact assessment or the whole life cycle analysis should be preceded not only when it comes to nuclear energy, but also when it comes to solar energy or wind energy, it also has to be brought here, as there is a large amount of, say, mineral mining and large amounts of energy being used. When solar panels become waste, for example, they also require enormous energy to be disposed of. So it would be really nice to see - otherwise I would be happy to see it myself - a life-cycle analysis. But I didn't see that, if the congressman knows that, then let me know where you can access it, and then we can argue about it in substance. And the other, obviously, we don't want to build Paks Nuclear Power Plant or any other nuclear power plant everywhere. Nuclear power plant must be built where it is justified. Obviously, there is a debate between us, and we believe that Paks has the right to exist, that there is nuclear power plant technology that has been operating for several decades, which has functioned safely except for the minor malfunction in 2003, and that has also been properly removed with the help of engineers. It works so well that in any country right now, this should not be forgotten, where they want to install a nuclear power plant with Russian technology, from many places to Hungary, engineers and workers who will build these power plants will come to the maintenance and training center in Paks. It is also a benefit to the Hungarian economy that we have such a power plant, and there is such an engineering experience that we must take very good care of, because it is a very valuable thing. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-09-26-70	We now have a pro-government speaker. Congressman Aradski will take the floor, KDNP. Here you go.
u2014-09-26-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I was inspired by the comment of Anita Heringes. The truth is that we did not leave Paks, the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, so the woman representing these claims is more cautious. We continue to monitor the work there, the opportunities there [[Dr. András Schiffer: Get the campaign!]] , and we will also cooperate on how capacity building can be made for the benefit of the city. There are very good opportunities for cooperation in this. But we know that Paks is very important in terms of capacity expansion, and I have not heard from you, as a congresswoman from Paks, clearly enough to support capacity expansion for Paks, but, unfortunately, despite the majority of the Paks, has joined the line of the MSZP, and I must say that you, as a representative from Paks, do not support enlargement. And I have to add the possibility that leaving Paks in a political sense or not is not up to it, and it doesn't have anything to do with who the mayor is, because as far as I know, there's a fidesz mayor right now. [[Dr. András Schiffer: No? But if you don't?]] But even if we don't have one, I don't hope for it, and I don't wish to, we're going to give Paks the same support as we've already done. [[Anita Herring claps.]] Otherwise, you can see in Paks' development that the existence of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and the expansion of capacity are essential. Therefore, if I were you, although fortunately I am not, I would not doubt whether I would support the expansion of Paks capacity. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. L. Simon László: Say you support the Paks jobs!]]
u2014-09-26-72	It is up to the opposition rep. Congressman Anita Herring, MSZP, please.
u2014-09-26-73	Thank you very much for the floor. If you have listened to my words and, by the way, Mr Hirt, I believe you know my work better, I have told you every time that you must help Paks and the Paks to prepare for this work. [[Dr. András Aradski: Do you support it?]] I've told you every single time that this is an important issue for us, Paks, the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. And for us, professionalism is important, sir, and it was your minister who told us and said that it was only then, and that there is support in time when the city is fidesz. You know, lately they've been trying to levitate things by saying that the independent mayor, supported by Fidesz, is not fidesz, and that he has prevented the support, expansion and development of the power plant. It's levitation. They had two thirds of them in the municipality, they could have done anything if they wanted to, made professional decisions if they wanted to. You have made party policy decisions over the past few years. I will do everything I can to make sure that the Paks entrepreneurs can do as much as possible, so that the people of Paks can do as much as possible in this work. [[Dr. András Aradski: Which one? Do you or do you not support it?]] I'll do anything for her. I think that's what I said. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-26-74	Thank you very much. The government asked for the floor. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State L. Simon László wants to speak. You have the floor.
u2014-09-26-75	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Congresswoman Hering replied to this question by saying that her answer was like the gift of Pooh and Piggy: by the time they arrived at the birthday party, the honey pot was gone and the balloon burst, but the empty honey pot was good for storing the balloon. Congresswoman, stand up, look straight into the camera, tell me something like that News TV reporters [[Intruder from the benches of the MSZP: You are threatening them! Defiance.]] Look us in the eye and tell us if you, as a resident of Paks, are in favour of keeping jobs in the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Are you in favour of increasing the number of Paks jobs in the Paks Nuclear Power Plant? [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Relax, we have the nuclear power plant.]] Do you support it? And to answer this specifically: do you support the expansion of the nuclear power plant? Yes or no? There's no need to jinx it, yes or no, that's the question. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-09-26-76	We will now continue with the contributions of the speakers announced in advance. [[Grumble from the ranks of the ruling parties, interrogations.]] We're not criticizing housekeeping. We're studying house rules. It is therefore up to Congressman Pál Völner, Fidesz.
u2014-09-26-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On 14 January this year, the Hungarian government and the Russian party signed an agreement on cooperation in the peaceful use of nuclear energy, under which the two new nuclear power stations can be implemented in Paks. According to the contract, the Russian half grants Hungary 10 billion euros of state loans for the construction of the two blocks and for the purchase and financing of works, services and equipment. The amount of the credit line covers 80% of the costs of putting into service and construction, the remainder being self-strength, as previously stated. The period during which the loan will be drawn will be between 2014 and'25 and the period covering the entire construction period. The repayment period starts six months after the entry into service and lasts 21 years, so in the next 10 years it does not mean any expenditure that the Hungarian State should finance. The terms of interest are very favourable. During the initial period, we have to pay 3.95 per cent of interest until the blocks start to work, then 4.5 per cent in the first seven years, 4.8 per cent in the last seven years and 4.95 per cent in the last seven years, so the interest rate on the loan remains below 5 per cent. In the first seven years, 25 percent of the loan actually used, 35 percent of the next seven years and 40 percent of the last seven years should be repaid. The parties may agree on the current amount of credit to be used in the six months preceding the budget year and the agreement shall provide for early repayment at any time. Therefore, if Hungary can obtain more favourable interest rates on international financial markets, this option is open. A credit agreement has been concluded in euro, if we think that our energy imports are also paid in foreign currency, then it is clear that this is not an additional burden either. [[12.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, The interest on the Paks loan is therefore lower than market interest rates, and the use of the loan represents an increase in assets for Hungary, compared with the loan previously received by the Bajnai Government from the International Monetary Fund and the European Union, which primarily served to help banks, while this investment provides competitiveness in the long term, provides a value-generating investment, and practically generates the repayment of the loan, since the calculated electricity price we talked about also includes the cover for the repayment of the loan. That is exactly what the debate was about, that the term will determine the electricity price that we will be able to expect in the future. The impact on the economy is outstanding in this investment. It is expected to create 10,000 new jobs, increase our total national product by up to 1 percent, and the virtually 40 percent Hungarian contribution rate will provide a market for Hungarian businesses. It also increases public revenue through tax revenues, which could amount to some EUR 1 billion in revenue. In particular, which is why we need to make this decision: energy supply and security and the competitiveness of the domestic economy would not be guaranteed in the long term without similar investments and without this investment. That is why we must support this investment. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-09-26-78	Thank you very much. Mr István Józsa is next, as MSZP, a pre-notified speaker. [[Intercoms: He's not in the room.]] But he's not here. Therefore, the next pre-notified speaker should be given the floor. I give the floor to Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, Fidesz.
u2014-09-26-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The question arises as to why this debate day is coming here, why we are discussing the issue of the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant now. [[Dr. András Schiffer in the box intervenes.]] The answer, I think, is very simple: elections are coming again, exactly the municipal elections. [[Dr. András Schiffer from the box: You didn't allow it!]] What is strange to me is that somehow our opposition colleagues do not learn much from the past, they did not really incorporate the political experience they could gain this spring, because before the parliamentary elections, the LMP - but I can safely say that the MSZP - put the protest against Paks on its flag, the question of the Paks enlargement, and we even heard from Bernadet Szél or Bertalan Tóth in today's comments that Fidesz does not dare to initiate a referendum on this issue. Let me say that there was a referendum in April, to be exact. You have made the issue of expanding the Paks Nuclear Power Plant an election issue. [[Intercoms from the LMP benches.]] This was, among other things, the LMP's election campaign, and the result is well known: this opinion was just 5 percent. My fellow Member Béla Turi-Kovács mentioned - he is not in the room now - in his comments right at the beginning that most of the Hungarian society supports the issue of nuclear power plants and the expansion of the nuclear power plant. It is no wonder, since energy security is one of Hungary's most serious security issues today, but I can safely say that Europe too, especially in the aspect of the outlook that the Ukrainian crisis that has taken place since then shows us that 80% of fossil fuels, which are a significant part, come from imports and, by the way, through Ukraine, from Russian imports, raises very serious energy security issues. To say the last thing, the availability of fuel for the production of nuclear power: a two-year reserve is always available, but we can store three months of gas. In a country such as Hungary, where there is currently a 64 percent import rate, I think it is not a question that basic power plants are absolutely needed. We need to produce as much energy as possible, 64 percent of imports cannot be triggered by wind or solar energy. Regardless of import, basic power plants are energy security, just because of independence, a country does need it. It's either made using fossil energy, energy sources, or nuclear energy. It was said, if I remember correctly, by Bertalan Tóth - I wrote it down, he literally said - that this is not the way the more developed half of the world does not go, i.e. nuclear power plants. Let me disappoint you. Currently 435 nuclear power plants are in operation and 169 are being built, say, in undeveloped countries such as the United States, England or France. But Wind Bernadett also mentioned Belgium as a country that does not want to deal with nuclear energy in the future. Currently, 50% of the Belgian energy demand is secured by nuclear power. In fact, Bernadett Szél also said that there is no country with a higher rate of nuclear power than there will be between 2020 and 32 in that transitional period, with a share of nuclear power in Hungarian use, which will be between 55 and 60 percent then. There is still a country: today, there is 75% nuclear power in France. The fact that carbon or gas, which emits fossil and carbon dioxide, I have already mentioned this issue. However, it has been said several times that in the future there will be no need for so much energy, so much electricity. May I remind you that the government also aims to favour electric cars. I believe that my fellow Members of the LMP are very much in agreement with this. Let me point out that in order to recharge the batteries of electric cars, a very significant amount of electrical energy will be required. A block the size of a deck can drive about 10,000 electric cars. Ten thousand. No more, that's all. There can be a lot more electric cars in this country, we hope, around 2030-2040. Finally, let me add that instead of forcing imports, I think it is much better to try to settle down for self-sufficiency, and if we happen to have surpluses, which you are so very afraid of, we will rather export and thus create Hungarian jobs, Hungarian revenues and Hungarian exports. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-09-26-80	Thank you very much. We're back in a two-minute circle, first up, Congressman Gábor Harangozó, MSZP, here we go.
u2014-09-26-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members of the Fidesz Group, I find it extremely unfair for you to point out whether a Paksian can support the expansion of the nuclear power plant or not. That's not what this debate is about! You know, a deck doesn't have a choice, because Paks today makes a living having a nuclear power plant there. Within ten years, we are not forced to set up a new nuclear power plant. The current nuclear power plant is operating until 2036. Today we should be able to decide whether, after 2036, we want to provide basic energy from a nuclear power plant or not from a nuclear power plant. If we want to secure it from a nuclear power plant, can we make a deal with open competition to create a technological change and revolution in Hungary, which will enable the economy to be turned upside down, or simply commit ourselves to the Russian smoke industry, which is what the current decision is about. [[13.00]] Or we can choose not to use nuclear energy to provide the Hungarian energy service in the future, but then we have ten years to offer the Paks an alternative to how Paks and its region will operate. But you didn't bring these questions to this House. Orbán went to Moscow, signed a contract, and said that, well, Hungarians, there will be a nuclear power plant, with such funding, for that, whether we like it or not, there is this, and there is no substantive debate about whether this is good or not. We are trying to argue about this, and it is an unfair false question whether or not a Paksian can support it today, in the present situation. Another sentence: it was said here that the cost of solar panels or even wind power plants could be replaced by a nuclear power plant. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] About the same cost as a new nuclear plant investment. [[The president's ringing again.]] The difference is that nuclear power plant investment is a major investment in capital, wind power plants, solar power plants and communities [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]] They're gonna make money. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-09-26-82	I would like to ask you with respect that everyone stick to the two-minute time frame in order to comply with our work, so that, obviously, Mr Zsolt Szabó has the opportunity to set an example. He's got the chance. Here you go.
u2014-09-26-83	I'm trying, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr President, Congressman Sallai isn't in the room, but I'd like him to... [[Sallai R. Benedict: I'm here!]] I would like to help him with a little professional question. [[Sallai R. Benedict: Thank you!]] It was said in your comment that the Ministry of National Development came out with HUF 1 billion, specifically the government in supporting the production of renewable energy and other things. I would like to offer you that if you come to the State Secretary, we will present to you the next four-year term, during which we will take approximately 130 billion forints for the population, family houses and condominiums to help you move forward in renewable energy and energy savings. It is my request and I encourage all Hungarian families to submit their applications calmly, and we would like as many family houses and condos as possible to be renewed in this respect. I would also like to say that we often hear from the opposition the reason for where the panel program is, when we come up with something. And when we announce that there will be a tendering period at home hot with 11 applications, and not with 1 billion forints, honourable Member, but with much more, they are interestingly objecting to why the first one is only HUF 1 billion. Because every element we put into this means a lot. One more way of thinking: we're talking about nuclear energy, only renewable energy, only wind energy, just, just... Mistake. More standing is the one-eye path - in the economy and in everyday life, everywhere. If we make the mistake of excluding energy forms in energy, then the future will be very sad. More energy, more legs - so the atom can fit in plenty. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-26-84	Thank you, too, for keeping your time frame precise. We will now return to the list of speakers that have been announced, and we will have a speech from Member László Kiss, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-09-26-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to point out to my fellow Member, Mr Jobbik, that the energy policy of the MSZP is not very much what you have been able to quote, and that is all that has been understood. But while we are on the subject of cultivation, I have already said it in this House in a similar debate, but it may not be in vain that the term " neoliberal " has been in the world of economic philosophy and political philosophy since the 1970s, in connection with the work of Milton Friedman and other excellent economists, who, by the way, urged a little more significant state intervention than the prevailing concepts of that time. This is only important because when you like to use the neoliberal term on the right, I would like to tell you, for the second time, but it can never be enough to use the wrong term; you are thinking of the liberal - although I note, my honourable fellow Members, and liberal energy policy means something other than what you quoted. But since we are thinking about this neoliberal, liberal, illiberal triangle, the illiberal expression, Prime Minister, was misapplied; there are excellent lexicons, which, by the way, give other people an opportunity to culture. People - if we can get back to the presentation - want cheap electricity, I think everyone here agrees. However, the major problem with the proposal is that it does not provide it. The price of this investment will be built into the price of electricity. There may be a mathematical number war on how much it costs - someone says 17 forints, someone over 30 forints - but if you look at the difference between the two, you will see that while in one case it is the price of concrete, iron, the building, in another case, at the price above 30 forints, they talk about the fact that there is an investment worth no more than 3000 billion dollars, the amount of which, whether you like it or not, will be built into the price of electricity or the daily livelihood of people. This debate could have been held during the debate on the credit agreement. My fellow opposition Members rightly draw attention to this fact that there would have been no need to initiate this debate if we had been able to debate there in a worthy manner. But we could not argue properly, because all the attributes of this were missing - there was no meaningful presentation, there was no argument, there was virtually no argument in the House in the debate as to why this should be accepted, why this huge loan should be taken. If there had been such a good argument, otherwise I think, as we have heard in the opposite row, then surely there would not have been a need to come here, but this did not happen - it did not happen because you had no intention of arguing about it in substance. There has been such an interesting situation here in the debate and in the vote, that this proposal, which you believe to be well supported, has not been voted by many in your benches, and has not been pressed. There are Members who just didn't press the button, obviously they have a right to do so, and there are those who weren't there. Let me quote just a few " unknown " Fidesz people who did not vote for this loan agreement, so either they were not present or they were not present, but they did not press buttons: Lajos Kósa, János Lázár, Péter Szijjártó, Zsolt Semjén, Tibor Navracsics, Viktor Orbán. They are the Fidesz who were either here and did not press a button, or they were not present in the debate and vote of this law. That, I think, certainly says a lot of things. It is also very interesting that there has been a strange conversation and correspondence between several Members of Parliament and the government about whether there is an impact assessment. It's a magic word, I'd like to shed some light on it; perhaps in the language of ordinary people, as we ourselves are, perhaps, more understandable. There's the III. It is an underpass in the district, I highly recommend the product of the scone who is there, an excellent product; if you want to know, I would be happy to share with him where he is, but this is not the place to advertise. Well, when this business started, there was an impact assessment that preceded whether this would be profitable, whether it was worth doing it. Compared to this, you have presented Paks' contract to us without us seeing this impact assessment. At first, they said they didn't know where he was, and then they said they did, but they did have the impact assessment, but later it turned out to be a business secret. The impact assessment was a little like Columbo's wife: I got it, I got it, but no one saw it. But I took the proposal of Secretary of State L. Simon László, thanks to the miracle of technology, I went up to kormany.hu, where he claims that this information can be found. I didn't really do anything but search for the expression Paks, because I'm sure the information you've told me about kormany.hu is all over me; I've actually received a lot of information about government propaganda and other articles, but I haven't found this impact study. It is possible that it is up there, and I do not dispute it, but I only claim that after 5-10 minutes of searching, I, as a normal Hungarian person, could not find it, but obviously, in a loan contract of HUF 3000 billion, it is not expected that you would put such an impact assessment in such a place that a normal person could look at it if you were curious about it. [[13.10]] Of course, we talked about what other sources of energy are, what other sources of energy are there. There's a great deal of potential for this. Zsolt Szabó, who was before me, assured many that the government did intend to move towards alternative energy sources. I am extremely pleased about that myself. I've already said that in the House. I came from a settlement as a Member of Parliament, my constituency is in a settlement where geothermal energy is a huge opportunity both for district heating and for the re-use of energy. This mysterious settlement is called Budapest, the III. district. I would also like to know, if we have come together on this issue, whether it will be possible, in addition to the 3000 billion-dollar giga loan, not to say that it is similar, but let's say, in measurable amounts, to switch to geothermal heating for either the Békásmegyeri or the Óbuda panel dwellings, or if there will be a possibility for other panel dwellings to switch to such connection. This is what could really change people's lives, in the lives of everyone who lives in the capital or lives in larger cities. Finally, I've heard from you many times, but I think it should be fixed: the argument you are always making about the authority of the people is a little false. They say that people have been authorized to do this, this standard sauce, they pour everything down with it, if they can't explain something to people, they can't justify it, they say that people have given us permission to do it, two-thirds of them, and so on. If this distorted logic were to be true, you would have to end the past exodus as a matter of urgency or I do not know how many years because you are constantly criticizing government activities that have been carried out by legitimate governments, governments elected by the people. According to your logic, these are all measures to which these governments have been authorized by the people. I understand the logic of double speech, which works in a way that is not true in one case. Obviously, the socialist government has not been authorized by the people, while you have been given the authority to make your decisions. It's just that logic is weird. If that's true, then it's true. So it is important to decide whether or not to continue this past eight-year-old blah, which is empty and doesn't make any sense, and to stop this kind of blathering about what the MSZP has done, what it hasn't done, what it hasn't done, or what they've changed, and they're willing to talk to people about their affairs. It's a false story because people weren't asked if they wanted to take this loan. They talk about jobs. Of course, if that's how you ask if you want cheap energy, each party wants cheap energy. Each party wants no unemployment in this country. But there are parties that do not want us to be indebted to the Russians by HUF 3000 billion. There are parties that do not want the government to make $3,000 in debt on proposals brought here without unprecedented impact studies that no one knows. We don't want that! Thank you very much.
u2014-09-26-86	Mr Font Sándor, Mr Fidesz, will be the first to speak in advance.
u2014-09-26-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. One sentence only for the last speaker of MSZP: Ferenc Gyurcsányek how many billion euros were taken up as loans when there was trouble [[Erik Bánki: Four and a half!]] which the Orbán government has, of course, repaid? Are they afraid we're gonna sell the country? In addition, we will therefore receive a mathematics, a nuclear power plant, and will benefit from it all, as opposed to the money they have taken and spent for sightless purposes. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to return to a smaller micro-environment for the construction of the nuclear power plant, although as a powerful electrical engineer who was finished at the time when the nuclear power plant was being built, and we had the pleasure of getting excited when the first block was launched in '82, I could approach it from a much different aspect of why the nuclear power system for humankind is now inevitable for energy production. And the microenvironment is the area of Paks and Paks, but I would only light it from the point of view of Kalocsa and its region on the other side of the Danube. It is well known that between 75 and 78 percent of Hungarian residents are not afraid of nuclear power plants, and it is even natural for us to base our energy supply on such an energy base. So there is absolutely no remorse in the Hungarian population, unless the LMP continues to upset the population about this. For the time being, he has failed, and society acknowledges that this is how it works. This agreement with the 75-78 percent nuclear power plant in our area is even greater because of the nearly 10,000 jobs created during this period, while the next blocks will be built. They're obviously asking where this workforce comes from. If we know this system and we know that we will use the Hungarian labour force capacities to a decisive extent, then our answer is that we are not sure that this is possible from Transdanubia or Western Transdanubia, and we are almost certainly not. The free and capacity labour ratio is currently in the Danube-Tisza area and beyond the Tisza. If that's true, and that's true, then there's no way to avoid a new bridge between Paks and Kalocsa. This opens up a whole new perspective on the relationship between the two cities. It's well-known that Paks doesn't have a hospital, he doesn't have direct medical care. Kalocsa, on the other hand, has a very high-quality and multi-developed institution. It is well - known that there will be a problem with where workers will be accommodated who will participate in various amounts of construction over time. Perhaps it would not be right for a temporary town to be built for these workers, which would then remain there as a ghost town and be unused, so building a new bridge, which, in our view, cannot be avoided during the construction process, would also solve this issue. In Kalocsa and its region, each of the former military barracks is ready to serve as a reception space for the workers' hands arriving with minimal conversion. And a small question so small that I can go on with this idea, like thinking together in waste management, reopens the possibility of cooperation between Paks and Kalocsa by building a new bridge. I just wanted to make it clear that, of course, in a macro-environment in which you object to the existence of the construction of the nuclear power plant at all - the LMP rejects this in itself, the MSZP says that it is good, good, it could be one of these, but these conditions that the current government has adopted are terrible - so I just wanted to show that there is no better approach to our energy production and the development of the region. This power plant block, which is due to expire soon, needs to be rejuvenated through the contract that is now expected to be concluded, through construction, and this area should be given a new opportunity by building a new bridge. In Kalocsa, the Collaboration for Kalocsa Association initiated a signature collection for this purpose, and in about two weeks there were 7,000 supporters, completely independent of party political views. They simply see this as a very big opportunity for this region and are ready to implement it with labour and existing infrastructure. However, as I have mentioned, as a non-independent electric power engineer, I have had the pleasure of dealing with renewable energies internationally over the past 16 years. I've been to Yülichi University, Germany, the leading renewable energy university, the government's direct advisor. We looked at the same university level in America, Iceland, Spain and everywhere where they deal with these renewable energies for some reason. It's all very nice, everything works very well, so small - it's the only problem. Take a look at the location of the countries that have been listed for the significant amount of electricity produced by wind power plants: all coastal countries. At altitudes between 50 and 100 metres, winds of 100 and 200 kilometres per hour are constantly blowing, and there is simply such a natural potential. I do not accept that biomass can produce renewable energy indefinitely. [[13.20]] That's not true, it's from the ground. I do not agree that this was classified as renewable energy at all. What we think today is a concrete renewable energy, it is not possible to produce a substantial amount of electricity and power. Let's be aware of that. It may come to this, but it's not like that now. By the way, I would recommend to the LMP that if you want to use real clean green energy, please support the construction of fusion power plants. I have nothing better to offer you. Fusion Power Plants - What Is It? Deuterium and lithium, a million years of non-radiating material on our planet, absolutely safe and perfect energy generator. The ITER system, by the way, is built in Cadarache, and I was there, and we personally looked at what was happening there. Please also feel in this direction so that you can really support an energy-generating system that is really green, and that it will eventually produce some serious energy to an infinite extent. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-26-88	Thank you very much. Now two-minute speeches are available. Tibor Szanyi, Member of the European Parliament, asked for a two-minute speech. I must inform the Member that the President, a member of the European Parliament and a representative, may give the floor if the House Committee puts the subject to be discussed on the agenda as an item on the European Union issue. This was proposed in the House Committee, but not adopted. On this basis, I would like to inform Mr Sanyi, Member of the European Parliament, that I see his application, but I cannot speak to him. [[Dr. Tibor Szanyi: No order of business? There's a grumble and a blur in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Dear Parliament, I'm glad there's so much... [[Dr. Tibor Szanyi: I applied in order of business, Mr. President...! Interview from Fidesz: Brussels!]] I hear the honourable Member. We are not criticising the House Committee's decision, but turning to the House Committee and, in particular, not criticising the President. [[Dr. Tibor Szanyi: This is a dictatorship! Shame on you! Dr. Tibor Szanyi is leaving the Chamber. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] On this basis, I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Szél for a two-minute comment. [[From the ranks of the governing parties to Dr. Tibor Szanyi: Goodbye! Have a nice day. Interjection.]] Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor. [[There are constant interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And you guys calm down, because we're gonna keep working. I am pleased that everyone has an opinion, but the floor is for the congresswoman. Here you go.
u2014-09-26-89	Mr. President. With all due respect, the 21 seconds that the Fidesz' unspeakable screaming took away from me, please be kind and have it restored. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-26-90	I suggest we not judge each other's work or their yelling style.
u2014-09-26-91	Because it was taken from the time of the LMP.
u2014-09-26-92	But the Congresswoman's request to restore the clock by twenty seconds and start from zero is justified. You have two minutes. Here you go.
u2014-09-26-93	Thank you very much. You, fellow Members, are playing the game as if we want four blocks of Paks with one renewable energy or I do not know how much, how much, how much. Of course it's not that. I don't have time to explain the arguments to you here, but instead of traveling around, it would be nice to have two things examined. One is to go up to agora-energiewende.org and see that Germany is still a net exporter of energy. So that means they're the ones who take the energy out and don't bring it in. Germany looks so good on you. So I don't think we should feel too sorry for them. The other is that the Munkácsy research group has put down an energy strategy for this country that could gradually convert this country to renewables by 2040, leading to nuclear energy. In fact, the second edition of their study book has also been published, which is thinking specifically about a sustainable energy strategy. Be kind, take out these books and look at them before the nuclear propaganda continues. Thank you.
u2014-09-26-94	[[Without a microphone]] : Returning to normal speeches. I'll give the floor to Ferenc Hirt, representative of Fidesz in two minutes.
u2014-09-26-95	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. We are talking about what the Paks agreement will deprive Hungary of. Well, from our MSZP colleagues and the LMP people telling the truth. They lie, they disinformed, they deceive me all the time. It's just outrageous. The best example of this is, by the way, Anita Heringes, with whom we started in the Paks constituency, he began his speech by saying that he was the only parliamentary representative of the Paks constituency. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] And I remember that I won the election by 50 percent. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] They love you so much in the district, you're in third place after Jobbik. The LMP's outnumbered itself. [[Moraj in the ranks of opposition parties.]] 'Cause by the way, they got 3.5 percent in the entire constituency. Congratulations on the result, by the way. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz. Intercom from the LMP lines.]] So that's it for Paks and his precinct. Dear House, The Paks Nuclear Power Plant, which now accounts for more than half of the Hungarian production in this area, is the main depositary of Hungary's electricity security. The power plant, operating with a significant 76 percent support for the population, has been one of the most successful investments of the last 40 years, if not for the national economy. The social acceptance of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is also extremely high in international comparison. More than three quarters of the Hungarian population support our country's nuclear energy supply [[Dr. András Schiffer: Ninety percent!]] the supply of electricity. The high level of confidence in the operation of the nuclear power plant is even higher among those living in the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. 95 percent of the people who live here support it. This is due, among other things, to the fact that we live here, and we know that the use of nuclear energy is safe, with benefits for both the country and the region. As a resident and Member of Parliament, the role of the nuclear power plant in the economic and cultural life of the region is of paramount importance to Tolna County and its environment. One of the biggest employers in the county has played an irreplaceable role in a way that has made Paks a real city. The power plant, which provides a safe livelihood, has literally become the engine for development, drawing on the increase in the standard of living of other surrounding settlements. With the interests of the country in mind, we can say that the government's plans and actions for the maintenance of capacity in Paks will help the whole country, from a national economy's point of view, to provide electricity security on which to rely and which will literally give energy to achieve our long-term economic goals. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-26-96	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Ms Schmuck Erzsébet, LMP. Here you go.
u2014-09-26-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr Font, we promise that the LMP will do everything in its power to give people a realistic view of the use of nuclear power and its risk. I would now like to talk about an element of this which nuances the positive picture that you are trying to present. The question of what will happen to spent fuel generated in the old and new reactors and the radioactive waste generated by the demolition of the power plant has so far been undeserved. However, these are not negligible items at all. The scale of the problem is the same as that of the planned enlargement, in both technical and financial terms, not to mention health aspects and risks. In order not to accuse us of referring to the arguments of the anti-atom-lobby groups, we collected the relevant figures from the " Energy Academy " website of the Lévai Energy Foundation, which is very close to Paks. Here, recognized nuclear scientists from the existing nuclear power plant write, among other things: " At the base price of 2013, the total waste cost is HUF 1671 billion. " Then a few lines down on enlargement: " The Treaty on the creation of new blocks deals with radioactive waste only with spent fuel, as appropriate. Nonprofit Kft., which manages radioactive waste. We have therefore separated the costs for them from its data. Based on this, we received the cost of the temporary storage and disposal of spent fuel for approximately HUF 1150 billion. " Counting in forints, then, we are talking about billions in euro, just like in the case of enlargement. It is also worth adding that in the nuclear remediation fund there is currently only HUF 200 billion of Paks' payments. [[13.30]] The numbers seem huge for the first time, but they are high-activity radioactive waste, which, through a multitude of generations, poses a serious environmental risk and requires special care and storage. This is also a waste that has not been permanently disposed of anywhere in the world, and the EU rules require Hungary to take care of the solution itself, so it cannot be sent directly to Russia. The costs outlined are not so high for no reason, and we are even afraid that they will be even bigger on the way. It is worth recalling that the cost of the Bátaapát storage of small and medium-activity radioactive waste was estimated at HUF 40 billion at the beginning of the construction, compared to which it actually cost 72.5 billion at the end of last year. This year another 7.4 billion will be spent, and the operation alone will have to be spent 700 million forints a year, on a human scale until the end of time. Such erratic waste management costs and risks do not arise for any other mode of energy production, which represents two important considerations of discretion for policy. On the one hand, these costs must appear in the electricity price, which further nuances the [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Government arguments on the inexpensiveness of nuclear power. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-26-98	Thank you very much. Mr István Józsa, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-09-26-99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Guests, The title of what this decision deprives Hungary of - the biggest problem would be to deprive it of sound thinking and professional discretion. So I would like to start with this, to draw attention to the need for everyone to remain calm and try to approach this issue on a professional basis. In this regard, it is a special pleasure for me that Attila Aszódi, whose professional activity I am familiar with from his childhood, if you will, and I highly appreciate his professional achievements, is here with us and can witness it; so he can learn part of what needs to be taken into account and what he doesn't. The approach is also the right approach in the MSZP's view to think in an energy mix. Of course, there is not only a mathematical part of this energy palette, but also a regional part. So when we talk about capacity expansion and expansion on such a scale, it is probably right to step outside the borders of the country and think in the region, because a block with a unit power of 1000-1200 megawatts also brings with it that if this falls out, the reserve capacity must be such a size. If this is to be done by Hungary alone, it is a very difficult and costly way of doing so, so a regional thinking must also be included in the professional approach. The other is the schedule. The title of the original proposal is "Keeping Paks Nuclear Power Plant Capacity Level." This suggests to all reasonable readers that it keeps the current capacity of 2000 megawatts at a level, so the new blocks will enter when the operating hours of these are up. Here is one of the problems to be interpreted: according to the current timetable, there will be ten years, when the current nuclear capacity will be more than twice as high and how the domestic system can cope with it, it is also related to what I have already talked about; it cannot bear it, it must be approached and thought about at regional level. So when we say that it would be good to know about preparatory studies, impact assessments, it is not only the issue raised on the cost side, but also on the regulatory side, how this will work. It would also be beneficial to carry out a credible study by the Commissioner and the team to be set up, since it is quite clear that there is a cost calculation that relates to the operation. The current four blocks of Paks produce electricity very safely and very cheaply, because it is already an amortised facility. For new blocks, the big question is how the investment costs are calculated, how and where. The government has given an approach that the credit will not count against the price of electricity, because it is part of an interstate loan, so it is paid by the budget. This means, however, that we taxpayers pay, if not so, because sooner or later someone has to pay for it, then we should have a cost calculation that is credible, not only based on estimates, but also taking into account existing contracts into account what can be expected. So I think it is the correct calculation that marks it in HUF 30-32 for the entire term, but this maturity is very long. In 30 years, this price may be as favourable as today's HUF 11-12, but this should be presented in a time horizon that is credible. What I would like to mention is that energy investment on this scale, especially in the context of the European support system, should not take attention away from the development of renewable energy production. Unfortunately, we have seen this over the past four to five years, and we have not taken advantage of the EU's potential to develop the renewable energy base. The domestic potential is clearly the most favourable for geothermal. At geothermal, there are no problems such as wind, that it blows only periodically, or that it is available only during certain periods of time. The electricity produced by heat mining is practically as continuously available as in any other power plant, and it is also important to know that in addition to one unit of electricity produced by geothermal power we receive five units of heat energy, for example, the total district heating of Budapest would be possible with a geothermal power plant with an electric power capacity of 400-500 megawatts. This also requires hundreds of billions, thousands of billions, but if we do not start in this direction, we do not know what modern technologies we have in this area. [[In the notary seat, Adam Mirkóczki is replaced by Dezső Believing.]] So I would like to nuance the opinion of the MSZP in that the MSZP is not anti-nuclear, it is not anti-Russian. The MSZP is in favour of making the country an optimistic energy spectrum, creating an energy mix that ensures the country's energy supply in the long term in a secure way, in a forward-looking way in the European environment and with modern technologies. If, in addition to the Paks investment, there will still be energy, money, steeds, weapons, then of course the direction is right. Just thinking about this slightly out-of-the-moment contract and building, it's not going to be a clear benefit to the energy sector. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-09-26-100	Thank you very much. Here comes Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-09-26-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, A lot has been said in this debate here today, we have heard about the stubborn ox here, and why who changes his opinion. One thing was not mentioned, for example, what is the main reason for the debate between Fidesz and the MSZP at the moment. Why didn't Fidesz support the construction of the power plant before 2010? Why does the MSZP not support or at least criticize the construction of the power plant with such a loud voice at the moment? There is only one reason for this: they are both motivated by the same reason in the decision before 2010 and now the MSZP, which is that they are afraid of being left out of the business, because that is what it is about, the business around construction, because unfortunately, this is what determines the decision of governments. It is not the decision of governments whether this is good for the country, whether it is necessary for Hungary's energy supply, but whether it is possible to do business, whether those companies, those entrepreneurs, those small and medium-sized enterprises close to you can split a slice of that cake from such a large construction. I have to say that in this debate, Jobbik and LMP are the only ones who are not in the same position on this issue, we do not agree with the LMP, but at least it is indisputable that they are not expressing their views on the basis of ulterior motives, or Jobbik is not expressing its opinion on the basis of ulterior motives, but on the ground that the country is either good or not. [[13.40]] And I must also point out here that during the construction process - so we support it, we absolutely support the construction of the power plant - we will pay very, very much attention to two things. One thing is to have strict economic control during the construction process, so let us pay close attention to whether the money is actually spent on and whether the money is spent on what is necessary. The second is that according to the agreement it will be possible to build 40 percent with Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. But it's not automatic. So it does not mean that Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises can participate in the construction immediately. At such a construction site, the construction of a nuclear power plant must prepare Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises for this. This would be the task of the government, because if Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises are not prepared, then foreigners who can build this nuclear power plant in the same way can come in. So it would be important from an economic point of view that Hungarian businesses can participate here, as this would be very important for Paks too. So we are asking the government to start preparing companies, businesses that will be able to participate in this construction right now. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-26-102	Thank you very much. There is now a two-minute speech; Ms Anita Heringes, MSZP. I would like to remind you that the faction has one minute and 46 seconds. Here you go.
u2014-09-26-103	I felt I had to respond to that. I am of Paks, as I have said, the only representative of the Parliament of Paks. [[Grumble in the ranks of Fidesz.]] Therefore, as a deckie, I can say that I am 100% in favour of the 2009 decision. It's just, you know, you took one thing from us: the debate, the opportunity for everyone to tell you about enlargement itself. You are bringing the debate here only about the treaty - as a unique decision only you have made. You know, there's only one thing about Paks: Paks entrepreneurs today know the name of Public Machine and Nyerges, Simicska better than anything else. I very much hope that the other Parliamentary Congressman in Paks will stand up for the Paks entrepreneurs just as enthusiasticly and with a pure heart as I do. You know, I support the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. I would very much like for a decision to be made that would have been appropriate for a democratic country. You took away this opportunity. Therefore, I can say that I support the 2009 decision, that I will do everything I can for the Paks entrepreneurs, because if this is how development, regional development and business development remain, then Russian companies will do it, foreign companies will do it because they will not have the ratings. I will fight for the city, for the people who live there and for the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Thank you.
u2014-09-26-104	A two-minute speech will be held by Congressman Ferenc Hirt, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2014-09-26-105	Thank you, Mr. President. Congresswoman - very briefly, because I do not want to take the floor from the others - you have claimed that you are the only one of Paks. Go to the archives, my ancestors used to run a mill there a little while ago. Older people know what Hirt means. If you don't know, I'll tell you again, keep me informed. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-09-26-106	Congressman Kepli put it in, then took out his application. I'm guessing you don't want to say anything. [[Lajos Kepli says no.]] Accordingly, we will return to the list of those who have asked for the normal word, and Mr Bánki Erik, Fidesz, will be next. Here you go.
u2014-09-26-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to look at what the Paks expansion means for our region and what the investment for Hungary is essential in terms of what the four power stations can do today, if we want to maintain in the next 60 or 80 years. I believe that that cannot be a question - in response to the accusations and accusations of Mrs Anita Heringes - that she had the opportunity and opportunity for society as a whole to express her opinion on the investment in capacity-building in Paks, since we did not sell bags. [[Dr. János Fónagy: I signed it.]] Congressman György Szilágyi may not remember this yet, but in 2009, we, too, had the entire Fidesz fraction in 330 votes in favour, which made the decision on the 2009 enlargement here in Parliament with more than 90% support. So we also supported it in the opposition because we thought what we thought today, that this investment is of paramount importance at national level, from a national security point of view and, by the way, in terms of people's livelihood and prosperity. But I will go on, my honourable fellow Member: we did not sell a bag cat before the parliamentary elections. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I was there.]] We are still committed to the expansion of Paks in 2010 and 2014. And two thirds of the Hungarian population supported us so that they knew that if we came to government, there would be decisions that would contribute to the concrete start-up of the investment in the next period and then the completion of it. So there may be five Members here in Parliament to protest the investment, my honourable fellow Member, Bernadett Szél [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: We will, calm down.]] - Congresswoman, I have listened to you and I have not spoken into what you have said - you have to look at the support you have been able to obtain in the parliamentary elections by saying that you, like us, have not sold bagcats. You have also said that you are opposed to investment in Paks power plant; you are opposed to building another two blocks in Hungary; you are opposed to ensuring that the country has a long-term supply of energy; you are opposed to providing electricity to the Hungarian industry and Hungarian households at the most competitive price. You told me, thank God. The result came, the Hungarian population said thank you very much, they don't want any of this. They ask for what Fidesz and KDNP's faction represented in the previous parliament, and with which we won it, two thirds, in a unique way in Europe, after four years of government, after democratic elections, we received a two-thirds mandate in the Hungarian Parliament. I think that is the opinion of the Hungarian population. The opinion of the Hungarian population, as my fellow Members have also said, is that three quarters of the country's population and nearly one hundred percent of the local population support this investment, because people are aware that this is the cleanest possible source of energy, there is no direct pollution here. And even though they are alarming us right now, Congresswoman Schmuck here is alarming everyone that the storage of fuel will cost thousands of billions of forints, but if she had read the contract that we had concluded, it's in the Russians' commitment to return the fuel to Russia, they'll recycle it there, and they'll supply us with fuel for as long as we need it. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and So there is no need for the Hungarian Parliament to be used to scare and frighten people. We don't have to store fuel at all in the next period. The fuel needs of enlargement will be met by the Russian partner by sending fuel back to them for recycling. So I think that if this investment were so dangerous, my fellow Members, as you say, there would be 435 power plants in the world today. I think that in the United States, whose inhabitants also pay particular attention to environmental protection, they too would long ago protest before the hundred power plants used there. I could also mention the example of France, where almost one hundred percent of electricity supply comes from nuclear power plant production. So you can see that this is a competitive way of producing energy. You can see the figures mentioned by my fellow Members, which are not forints 27-31, which my opposition colleagues are talking about, but forint 15-17, which also includes the cost of the full investment's return, i.e. both the repayment of capital and interest, and for 60 years, i.e. for the next period, for the 60 years of operation, they include the full return on the new power station blocks. More specifically, not 60 years, because we are talking 21 plus 9 years, so we are actually talking 30 years, which means the duration of the loan. And then we didn't consider the possibility of a lifetime extension. After all, we have seen in these four blocks that the renewal of technology, careful management, has led to the possibility of increasing the capacity of the four power plant blocks now in operation on the move and extending their operating time. So it is not excluded that after the end of 60 years, the lifetime of the two new power plant blocks can be extended for another 20 years, which means that then we can generate electricity free of any load, and in the same way, at today's prices, we can generate electricity at a cost of around HUF 10. [[13.50]] So, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you all to ignore the political aspects of the party, simply focus on what is in the interests of the Hungarian population. It is in the interest of the Hungarian population to maintain capacity, while the two new power plant blocks will be built with the same safe technology as the previous ones, and with the same careful operation that the Paks workers have been able to provide over the past decades. So nothing to worry about, I think we have made a very good decision in the Hungarian Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-26-108	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik. You have two minutes, Congressman. Here you go.
u2014-09-26-109	Thank you very much. After more people have said their origins here, I'm going to join in. I am not a Paksian, but my family comes from a small village near Paks, Germankér, and therefore, and because of the fact that a significant part of my kinship is still connected to the power plant to this day, it is obvious that I am still with the supporters of the power plant. I also have direct experience of my own professional experience and, on the one hand, experience from a long time ago about the importance of nuclear power plants for the people of Paks and the Paks region. But I didn't hear it from the Paks, but I would like to say that if I were a Paksian, I would be very disturbed by the fact that certain Members of Parliament appear in Parliament in a T-shirt marked " Stop Paks " and " No Paks," as it suggests that the city itself is not the nuclear power plant. I think that we should definitely raise our voice against this. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz and Jobbik. Dr. András Schiffer: That is not our goal!]] Even though that is not your intention, Congressman, that is what it suggests. Paks is a very nice town, and I think that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is a very good investment. From this point forward, we should focus on - because it is an investment accepted and already decided by Parliament - what my fellow Member György Szilágyi said - how we will be able to supervise how the 40 percent Hungarian supplier's share will actually strike locally and in the neighbourhood, and indeed enrich Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, because if the only difference is that Fidesz or MSZP will make the investment so that the money will be stolen with a European Union or national ribbon, then we have achieved nothing with this, then the Paksians will not be better off, then it will not be better for the country's energy security. I therefore believe that the committee of inquiry, which Jobbik has already initiated, and since then the MSZP has also initiated - more precisely a case-by-case committee - has a right and must be implemented, which would control the supervision of money at Parliament's level. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-26-110	Thank you very much. A regular word will be followed as a petitioner by Congressman János Bencsik, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2014-09-26-111	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I listened with great interest to the speeches made during the debate, especially to my fellow Members from the LMP, who initiated today's parliamentary debate. I regret the fact that, by the end of the debate, there are two of the five Members who took the initiative. [[Dr. András Schiffer: How many seconds do we have left?]] But democracy, you know, Congressman Schiffer, is all about it, and it's also about being liberal that we listen to each other with respect. If we call upon our fellow Members to engage in dialogue, we respectfully not only say our opinions, but we stay and listen to them. That's the beauty of politics. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Give me more time!]] What my fellow Member Schiffer and my fellow Member Róbert Sallai Benedek have been trying to set as a test of loyalty is to increase knowledge, honourable Members. In 2009, nothing else happened but the socialist government at the time brought in a proposal that was flat, such as [[He's showing it to me.]] It was all about who was in principle supporting the investment in Paks. You know, my fellow Members, I was not made to simply say yes to such a page, so I abstained. Then I had a year as Secretary of State for Climate and Energy to put analyses, studies and different scenarios together with my colleagues to think about how to guarantee the country's electricity security. You're not-you're-you're-you're-you're-on-the- grounds, just like Secretary Zsolt Szabó said here an hour ago. The problem with you is that you can only think in extremes, in your or. You need to learn to think, too, especially if reason dictates it. Hungary is not in a position to try to rely only on nuclear energy for security of supply or only on renewable energy sources. We need both, and we will even need domestic coal and lignite in order to guarantee the country's secure energy supply. This is a matter of national security. You are using sustainability as a political product. I say that there are some of us who have been dealing with sustainability in community service for quite a long time - I myself, for 25 years. You are missing energy efficiency and renewable energy investments here. Mr. Secretary of State said an hour ago that some HUF 2000 billion is available in the next six years, and I myself highlighted this in the lead speakerial round. But also to give you an example to my colleagues, to the community of voters behind me, of what we are talking empty and what we are talking about, to the benefit of the community, I would also like to read to Mr Schiffer some of the developments that we have made in the last two years and will be implemented in the constituency of Tata-Tatabánya in the next two years. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Give me two minutes and I'll answer.]] We are currently working on a full modernization of more than 500 apartments. There is an extra programme, Mr Schiffer, which we are not talking about, but we are implementing. To improve the efficiency of the district heating system, the two cities spent over half a billion forints. We built a heat storage room next to the heating plant in order not to have to start the boilers unnecessarily during the summer season, because the water heated during the week is perfectly sufficient to satisfy the demand for hot water for the use of a city of 70,000. In our public institutions we have implemented a 2 billion HUF building modernisation program in county hospital, kindergartens, schools, crèches and cultural houses. We built a biogas plant for more than 1 billion forints in order to harness green waste, organic waste, sewage sludge from the regional water plant. We did the same thing with the regional landfill depogas. This is all renewable energy use and energy efficiency development and investment. We do not smile, we do not grin on it, but we feel good about the results of our work together. In addition, we started to build a 6 billion forint biomass fuel plant in order to significantly reduce independence from Russian gas. We're in R &amp; D. We combine adsorption old cooling technology with their photovoltaics to enable them to use cooling equipment in commercial facilities that uses renewable energy to heat up the coolant. Honourable Congressman, If you really saw the Hungarian energy use system, you would know very well that 5 percent of our electricity consumption is consumed in commercial facilities. I think that Secretary of State Glatttfelder can support this. Five percent! It doesn't matter at all what efficiency equipment the cooling counters are operated with. With Hungarian innovation, this is the opportunity to save money. We're doing a search in the city, and based on it, we've already manufactured the streetlights that are being installed in our settlements. What are we talking about? ! Jobs are right behind him. [[14.00]] You just talk, we act. And then there's the Edutus College, where we'll put in a passive house, a demonstration building, even during the fall. And facility management training has also been launched, because there is a need for qualified professionals in the field of facility management in the municipalities. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Hungary performs better.]] But, you know, Mr. Schiffer, the thing is, first we have to gain people's trust, and then we have to keep that trust for two and a half decades. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Who ran this country two and a half decades ago?]] And if we keep it, it will be possible, in cooperation with them, to achieve such results. And let's not just talk about things, let's act. Thank you all very much for your attention. What I regret is that Congressman Schiffer has taken his own attention with his continuous speech. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-09-26-112	Dear Parliament, The floor now belongs to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik. Congressman, you have two minutes.
u2014-09-26-113	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr Bencsik said here why he did not vote in 2009 for why he abstained from voting. If that is the case, Mr Congressman, I say to Mr Benchik, if that is the case, then I congratulate you. Because this would be the responsible representatives' attitude, that if someone gets an A4 card and doesn't have all the very important information, then they shouldn't vote for it. However, those who voted against it should all be ashamed of themselves who are still sitting here, say, in the Fidesz. This must have been about the Lisbon Treaty at the time, which you also voted for unread. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-26-114	Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I wanted to ask if anyone else would like to speak, but in the meantime, Congressman Lajos Kepli indicated that yes, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-09-26-115	Thank you very much. Given that we still have about six minutes left in the time frame, I would like to summarise the lessons learned from today's debate on our part. Although there have been many, even more violent outbursts in keynote speeches or in the debate, I think that as a debate, it is certainly constructive. Another issue is that the debate on how new blocks could be replaced during the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is perhaps a little too late, since it is only a matter of time before the investment takes place, since it has already been decided at all levels. However, the reason why this debate cannot be ignored is because the solutions, proposals for solutions that are emerging here, in the same way as for renewable energy sources or other areas, must, of course, also be useful to the government. In the longer term, they can be incorporated into the strategy. And of course no one, at least the Jobbik Movement for Hungary certainly does not support the expansion of the nuclear power plant because we would be so in love with radioactive technologies, but it must be said that at the moment we are really looking after Hungary's interests, and we really see that there is no realistic alternative to the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. In this, in which the LMP should be highly respected and appreciated from among the parties, that, outside Jobbik, he alone represents a consistent position, completely in contradiction with Jobbik, but at least since they have been in Parliament, they have remained in this position ever since. This can lead to a healthy debate in which progress can be made. The step forward in this case means that the new blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant will begin to be implemented. From now on, we must focus on and pay attention to how the EUR 10 billion framework agreement and its share of the Hungarian suppliers will be used several times today. In addition, of course, to ensure that all sustainability, environmental protection, health protection and other aspects of the investment of the power plant are respected, which really allows people living in the environment to benefit from this power plant on the one hand and the entire Hungarian population on the other. And the security investment is to be made in such a way that there is nothing to be afraid of those who are afraid of nuclear technology at the moment, either because of past nuclear accidents, or because of other motivations. Of the renewable energies, as I have already said, biomass and geothermal energy, which, in our opinion, can be considered in the longer term, not in terms of wind and solar energy, but in terms of our country's capabilities. This is also important, but it is mainly local, local, family houses, condominiums, heating and hot water production; I am thinking of solar energy. Also for smaller wind wheels, to supply small parts of settlements or settlements locally with electricity or during the farm electrification programme. So they also have, every renewable energy source has its place and significance. What I didn't mention today, and I didn't mention in my speech as a lead speaker, but I also represent this area within the Jobbik faction, by the way, is hydropower. As renewable energy, we also mention this every time the Paks debate or any energy dispute comes to mind, why it has not been possible to talk about this in Hungary for 25 years to harness the energy of our rivers. Bős-Nagymaros is still living in the spirit of the people, although these investments would either be feasible and should at least be openly debated as to whether they can be achieved. In order to ensure that, in the longer term, by the time the new blocks expire, we can say that nuclear energy can be fully driven out in Hungary, because we can ensure Hungary's energy supply with energy efficiency solutions, on the one hand, and renewable energy sources, on the other. Yes, I know that this is still an extremely long time span for 80 to 100 years in advance, but I think that a responsible politician should not think for four years, not even for 8 to 12 years, not for four years, but for 50 to 100 years. After all, it is hoped that Hungary will be an even stronger and more stable country in those times, and then we can really solve what cannot be achieved at the moment either from an economic point of view or from other aspects. I really understand the enthusiasm and bias of the LMP towards renewable energies, and I wish that the time would come as soon as possible when they could be put in place on the market and providing cheap energy for the population. And by the way, also by solving their regulation, because at the moment, this is the biggest question of how to manage the regulation of renewable energies. Since my time is up, that's all I wanted to say, thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-26-116	Thank you very much. He asked for a two-minute speech, Mr Bánki Erik, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2014-09-26-117	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to answer Anita Heringes, but I see you have an urgent matter to attend to, and you did not wait for the end of this very important debate for her anyway. It is not my place to protect Minister Sesztak, but I was with him at the event where the words quoted by Mrs Sheszták were spoken. Maybe it's not surprising that they obviously didn't sound like he said. So there was no mention that if you didn't have a fidesz mayor for Paks, you wouldn't be getting development aid. Minister said, quite rightly, in an election campaign, that if the Paks vote for György Kozmann, the candidate of Fidesz, there is obviously a much better chance of reaching an effective lobby and a quick contact with the members of the government, as he knows them personally and is in good friendship with many members of the faction. And the fact that it's a small gray town is Paks: I would suggest that you travel to Tamási, which is not too far from Paks, or come to Mohács. Two towns like this, Tamási is smaller than Paks, Mohács is the same size, and their options are far from there. For example, in Mohács, business tax is less than a sixth of what is in Paks. Compared to this, Pakson has ruined institution buildings, crumbling city halls, unroadable sidewalks and streets. So, unfortunately, it is a small gray town. We have learned the lesson from the local policy of the last eight years, and we do not, by chance, support the otherwise independent mayor, János Hajdú, who was previously supported by Fidesz, but think that Pakson needs renewal. The city must be a mayor who can manage this capacity-building expansion period effectively, in the interest of the citizens of Paks. I think this decision was the right one. We can be wrong, too, with a new mayor, I think Paks will be much more effective, and the Paks will be able to profit more from this enlargement. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[14.10]]
u2014-09-26-118	Now it's Gábor Bellozó's turn. May I remind you, Congressman, you have 21 seconds.
u2014-09-26-119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In preparation for this debate, I asked experts working at Paks Nuclear Power Plant, who informed me that the AES-1200 nuclear power plant block cannot be technologically controlled, and therefore cannot tolerate renewable energy to a large extent, on the one hand. On the other hand, with this investment, the cost of producing energy will be 33-35 HUF. Other than that, I didn't see anything else. I would like you to confirm your claims regarding the energy price of HUF 15-17. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-26-120	Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak as a congressman. [[There's no candidate.]] No. In this case, the Members' speeches are over. I give the floor on behalf of the government to Secretary of State L. Simon László. Secretary of State, you have 20 minutes. Here you go.
u2014-09-26-121	Thank you for the floor. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett and Dr. András Schiffer: T-shirts on, T-shirts on!]] Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, allow me, on behalf of the government, to thank the opposition initiative for organising a debate day. Thank you, fellow Members, who have patiently sat through this many-hour debate, who have sat not only for the few minutes that they have said their own words and then left the Chamber, but also for the views of the other Members, who, in the case at hand, have expressed opposition to them. Allow me to respond to some of the issues raised in the debate in the closing part of the debate. Not everything, because my fellow members of the Government have already touched on a number of issues, and I think that there have been moments in the debate that are not worth responding to. Let us perhaps begin by pointing out, in my fellow Member Bencsik's speech as a speaker, an important issue that has emerged at several points in the debate, namely when he said that the electricity demand of our country's imports exceeds 30 percent this year. He and others have pointed out that during the debates on the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, we need to place particular emphasis on what and what Hungary's energy exposure will be like in the future. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that it was also clear in the context of the pro-government positions that Mr Paks II had made it clear. its construction reduces this exposure to a very large extent, so it strengthens Hungary's sovereignty just barely, as opposed to the statement made by our socialist fellow Members. It is clear from professional materials that nuclear fuel is well-stocked, available elsewhere, as opposed to, say, gas and oil delivered on the pipeline. Even the contract that we have concluded guarantees that it can be obtained from other sources, so it is possible and even mandatory to diversify. As my fellow Members highlighted in the debate, in Kazakhstan, Canada, Australia, but also in Africa, there are significant uranium reserves available to Hungary. So they provide continuous fuel supply. Bertalan Tóth's speech by our socialist fellow Member is a pity that he did not listen to our fellow Member Józsa [[Erik Bánki laughs.]] 'Cause then he probably wouldn't have told you yours. [[Dr. István Józsa: It's a good thing Mr. State Secretary listened to it. Erik Bánki: 6.5 billion!]] But that's also true: it's too bad that Bertalan Tóth wasn't in the room during your speech, because then it would have become clear that it was obviously your old Paks connection system... [[Dr. István Józsa: This is not such a mistake! Interjections, disclosure from the ranks of the MSZP.]] ... obviously because of your old Paks connection system. [[Further interventions from the lines of the MSZP.]] ...is obviously because of your old Paks connection system, and he expressed a different view than Bertalan Tóth. Because you were clearly on professional ground in your speech, while Bertalan Tóth's speech on the platform was a speech containing harshly political and offensive remarks. We have heard the phrase Orbán-Putin pact at least 30 times, and the following is what our fellow Member said: Hungary loses part of its sovereignty, we become a vassal of Russia, we become a Russian colony. [[István Gábor Bellozó applauds.]] These terms were used more than once, not twice by our fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth. I do not want to abuse historical examples and come up with certain socialist issues, in any case I can tell you that the construction of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is aimed at reducing Hungary's energy exposure, thereby strengthening the sovereignty of the country. It's a clean deal. This is a pure business that is in the interest of Hungary [[Gábor István Bellozó: That's all, but it's not clear.]] This business, both its part of the loan and the construction of the power plant, does not in any way increase or reduce the sovereignty of Hungary. So what Bertalan Tóth said, I don't know... [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. Interjection from the lines of the MSZP: What's wrong? György Szilágyi: This is the genre of Parliament!]] It's also a parliamentary genre that I don't talk when you talk. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: We will be grateful. Let's hear it from the same place.]] I can also stop talking while you're yelling. I can do it without any trouble. I suppose I can even do that, like I still have 15 minutes to stand here silent for 15 minutes, right, Mr. President? House rules do not forbid me, and you must bear it with dignity. [[György Szilágyi: I'm listening.]] Thank you very much, Congressman, for listening to me. So, of course, this does not affect, in any way, the sovereignty of our country. CHAPTER XXI 20th century. We want to implement century technology, said Congressman Bertalan Tóth. The examples put forward by my fellow Members about the construction of new power plants are just a rebuttal of this claim. After that, Congressman Tóth said that it was a lie that there would be cheaper electricity. [[István Gábor Bellozó applauds.]] I would also like to ask our fellow Member, Mr Harangozó, if he asks us what data we can provide to justify the expected kilowatt hour price of HUF 15-17, then I will also ask back and I would like to see the studies to which the Member refers. [[Gábor István Bellozó: This should not be discussed in a four-hour time frame.]] because he went into the power plant, and someone there told you it was going to be 33 forints. [[Gábor István Harangozó: It was possible to vote on the eight-hour time frame.]] I would like to see the specific studies with which you [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: You have to prove it, not us.]] I would like to see the studies with which you can justify that 33 forint. I did this in my proper speech. [[More interruptions.]] I have already responded to this in my ordinary speech, and I have told you what numbers Mr. Government Commissioner presented at the academic lecture and conference, and how we really count 15-17 forints and 33 forints. Ladies and gentlemen, We have also heard from our socialist fellow Members that Hungary should follow development directions in Western Europe. That's what the socialists expect. Minister Szijjártó made it clear in his exposure from the government that 25 percent of nuclear power in the European Union is currently in the energy sector, while we have also heard from Minister Szijjártó that in France, the 58 nuclear power plants cover 75% of energy needs. To say that we are not following the trends in Western Europe, to say the least, is interesting. To comment harshly on the quote about Viktor Orbán, to come out here with Putin's pinjis, to say the least, is tasteless. If you were here, Congressman, I would be pleased to present you with this recording. [[He's holding up his tablet. Intervention from the benches of the LMP: The demonstration tool is forbidden.]] this footage of Ferenc Gyurcsány, next to his wife, President Putin, with a puppy in his hand, and I would like to read the article of that time. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: This is a forbidden illustration!]] . " The Tokaj wine and the Toto pulk dog liked the Russian president most when he had lunch at the Gyurcsány family on Wednesday. According to Blikk, Vladimir Putin spent more time than planned in the House of the Hungarian Prime Minister, and the State Department had to tell him that it was time to leave for Prague. " The paper says, " Toto gave the guest two kisses, who enjoyed chatting with Klára Dobrev in her native language. " I think that, in the light of such photographs and such articles, it is tasteless what Congressman Tóth has come up with here. Let's just get back to the cheaper electricity for a second, 'cause let's not go past a few numbers. Today, the cost price of the Paks electricity is 10 HUF/kilowatto, which is sold at approximately 11 HUF. [[14.20]] According to the Prime Minister's calculations, as I said, it will be between 15 and 17 forints, and the question is not that it is 5 or 6 forints more expensive than 11 forints, but the question is what energy base can be expected around 2025, and the most careful estimates put the energy base between 17 and 19 forints per kilowatt; and I do not yet count on the cost of renewable energy, how much more expensive renewable energy than nuclear energy. So this investment will ensure that our country remains low prices [[Dr. András Schiffer: 8-9 HUF!]] and the government is determined to reduce the overhead not only in households but also in public users: reducing our exposure and ensuring a persistently low energy price in the energy sector. Ladies and gentlemen, According to memorable analysts, if all the energy needs that we will provide with Paks II are to be replaced by fossil-based energy, i.e. coal and natural gas, it would result in a 20% increase in price. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Who wants this? Interjections, disclosure.]] We're having a good talk. [[Deterioration in the benches of LMP and MSZP. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] In the debate, it was a matter of emphasis, especially on the part of the LMP representatives, on why we should not rather build renewable power plants instead of the new Paks nuclear power plant block. Ladies and gentlemen, The energy policy of our country is determined by the 2030 national energy strategy, which was otherwise adopted in 2011. It's up to 2050. On the basis of the energy strategy presented, the future energy mix containing both renewable and nuclear energy is the best, stable and safest solution for the country. Mr Bencsik also spoke about this, as I recall, Mr Secretary of State Major, but several spoke about it. By 2020, our country has committed 14.65 per cent renewable share of final energy consumption, which is in line with the natural conditions of our country. The economical storage of electricity has not yet been resolved on an industrial scale, and you have also talked about it and others have spoken about it. However, electricity is also needed at night, and even when the wind is not blowing, the sun is not shining, i.e. it is clear that exclusive preference for renewable energy sources is not a secure power supply. Ladies and gentlemen, Solar and wind power plants are unable to produce base power at the moment, and the price of electricity in Hungary should be significantly increased in order for solar and wind power plants to spread to a large extent. [[Dr. András Schiffer: 8-9 HUF!]] To replace the cheaply producing nuclear power plant with 2400 megawatts in the next 60 years - pay attention, fellow Members of the LMP. - two or three times, wind power plants should be built in an area of one and a half to two balatons, since the average design life of wind turbines is only 25 to 30 years, and the new nuclear power stations have 60 years. And I hope that TV viewers understand that wind power plants should be set up in an area of one and a half to two Balatons, so that we can produce the same amount of energy we can produce from wind power plants as we can with the nuclear power plant. [[Dr. András Schiffer: We're talking about a mix.]] I know the LMP guys want to bring Bős-Nagymaros back, too, because hydropower is important to them. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Who said that?]] You just said it wasn't just wind. [[Deterioration in opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell. Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] Wind. We're gonna get to the wind, okay? [[Defiance.]] [[Defiance.]] Congresswoman Bernadett Wind (Development). - because they said it wasn't just wind - he said that most of the nuclear power plants were built in the '70s. The Russian partner, which will build the Paks Nuclear Power Plant in Hungary, will build nearly 20 blocks and plan to complete another 80 blocks by 2030. [[Dr. András Schiffer: It's a big problem!]] My fellow Members, mentioned by Mrs Wind, that there were accidents, do not in itself justify not building a nuclear power plant, because that is such a demagogic argument as to say that if passenger aircraft were to crash, air transport would have to be stopped. [[Dr. András Schiffer: One or two of these accidents, and then we stop everything! Cut!]] The congresswoman even said that anyone who builds a nuclear power plant misses renewable energy. Fellow Members! This is clearly demonstrated, and this is also what the energy strategy adopted in 2011 is about, that this is not true, and the current government of Hungary is interested in developing the nuclear power plant and renewable energy sources in parallel. Our fellow Member Fodor said that Russia is breaking international law, it is outrageous that we are signing with them. I think it is at least so outrageous that Congressman Fodor always comes here, tells the position of the Hungarian Liberal Party in one person, then leaves, doesn't want to know what our position is. Congresswoman Selényi also does so on a regular basis. Let's see what the European Union has to say about building a nuclear power plant. [[Gábor István Bellozó: I am curious about this! What's the answer, Mr. Secretary?]] The European Union's system of rules has been fully respected by Hungary, and we are constantly discussing the preparation of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant with the EU at the highest level. Hungary has always been open and constructive with the European Union. We are in constant contact with the relevant Directorates-General of the European Commission, and during several months of consultation there has been no objection on the EU's cooperation with the Russians or on the loan given by the Russians. Ladies and gentlemen, It should also be noted that we are not the only ones building a power plant with Russian technology. On 18 September 2014, the Finnish nuclear power plant with Russian technology received a green light. [[Dr. András Schiffer: It's a big problem!]] So this also coincides with the otherwise very regrettable Russian-Ukrainian crisis, where, of course, we Hungarian MPs are on the side of Transcarpathian Hungarians. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Gábor István Bellozó: What guarantees do the Finns see? Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, the International Atomic Energy Agency supports Hungary, according to the position of the International Atomic Energy Agency, both Paks and Russian technology comply with international standards and, as such, is safe. I must underline the safe word because Congressman Fodor said that the Russians cannot build safe nuclear power plants. I would like to inform my fellow Members that there will be a maximum earthquake-proof power plant. The technical requirements for new blocks fully meet international requirements [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's what they said about Fukushima!]] "A power plant will be built, a robust power plant will be built that will also be designed to avoid an accident or a subsequent disaster in the event of a civilian plane crash. László Kiss, our MSZP fellow Member, has also pushed for the credit facility, and several have mentioned the credit facility behind the construction of the power plant. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that this is a business construction, a very good construction for Hungary. It's a pure business where the Russians didn't report any political demands in exchange for the source. In contrast to the IMF, which reduces pensions, and the rest, we know very well what it expected in return for money; they have always operated on political needs, interference with internal politics, as opposed to the Russian credit facility, where it is purely business: the power plant will be built with money, and we will repay this money. [[Dr. András Schiffer: What happens in ten years?]] Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary could not currently receive a EUR 10 billion credit line on the market. The maturity, as we know, is 21 years, with a band of favourable interest rates, which we would not have been able to achieve on the market. I can tell you about the interest rate from 2014 until the nuclear power plant blocks are operational, but no later than 15 March 2016, the interest rate will be 4.5 per cent in the first seven years of repayment, 4.8 per cent in the second phase, and the loan will be 4.95 per cent in the third period and the final period will be 4.95 per cent. For such a long term, such a favourable offer is currently not available on the financial market in the world, and Hungary also has the possibility of early repayment. Finally - because I have only a minute and a half left - allow me to get to what Congressman Bellozó said here in defence of Congresswoman Heringes. He said that the price question was unfair and that we were wrongfully hurting the congresswoman. The congresswoman stood up as a deckie. The Congresswoman began to speak ambiguously, not making her position clear about Paks. [[Anita Herring: That's not true!]] [[14.30]] I think that our fellow Member Hirtl and our fellow Member Erik Bánki have also made it clear what the construction of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant means for the inhabitants of the region. If the congresswoman, as she has already moved and lives in Budapest, would not know, then I will tell you that there, in the South Transdanubian region, the gross average wage is 190 298 HUF. Thanks to the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, the average gross wage in Tolna County is higher, HUF 215 thousand, and the average wage in the power plant itself is high, HUF 382 500, twice the gross average wage. [[Defiance and intervention in Jobbik's ranks, among other things: Is Jozsi involved?]] in the power plant, as the average wage in the region. [[Anita Herring: I didn't move anywhere!]] Congresswoman, the Paks would like to see another nuclear power plant expanded. The Paks expect you to stand up. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Honestly!]] and tell me honestly whether you support the expansion of the nuclear power plant and do not say that you support the 2009 resolution in principle. Ladies and gentlemen, Here, on Parliament's debate day, there is room for straight, honest speech. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: This is what we expect from you! The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That's what my pro-government fellow Members did. Thank you very much for listening to us, thank you very much to the opposition for initiating this debate day, and I hope that the voters will see clearly and, as they have done before, will continue to support us in the future. Thank you very much, fellow Members. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-26-122	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, That concludes the political debate. [[Intercoms.]] Calm down! [[Defiance.]] This weekend is about to start for you, and you can take it. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, We have reached the end of the debate on the only item on our agenda today, so we are now going to have speeches after the agenda. Speaking after the agenda, Mr László György Lukács, Jobbik said: " Today, every thousand newborns come into the world with a loss of hearing. How can we help you? " with the title " I give you the floor. Congressman, you have five minutes. Here you go.
u2014-09-26-123	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The World Day for hearing-damaged people has been held since 1958 on the last Sunday of September. International data show that hearing loss is today the most common birth defect in the world. Today, every thousand newborns come into the world with a loss of hearing, so on this occasion I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the importance of objective hearing tests at newborns. It is good that, through technical progress, a range of effective diagnostic tools are now available for hearing screening, which can provide reliable information on the quality of one of our most important senses even in newborns. However, it is a little welcome that modern, objective, i.e. instrumental hearing screening in state-owned hospitals in Hungary often encounters a major obstacle, and it is well known that accurate diagnosis of children's hearing is particularly important in time, as the first six months are critical in terms of speech development and understanding. I'm sure you can see that recognizing the loss of our children's hearing at an early stage is at the same time an individual, overall social and economic interest. Treatment of late-explored hearing damage due to the lack of an appropriate obstetrical equipment park puts a heavy financial burden on both parents and social security, and thus on the state. In addition to this burden, the amount of money that would be used to provide hospitals with the right means would be dwarfed. A self-sustaining or welfare state, such as Hungary, should embrace this issue, and order newborn hearing screening with modern equipment with the power of the law, all the more so, as the tools that can be obtained at an affordable price to map the functioning of the internal neural structures of the auditory system with nearly 100% success and pain free. A lifelong improvement in the quality of life for deaf and hearing persons can be achieved by the proper management of the thus recognised hearing loss. The proper use of such equipment, in addition to releasing a significant burden on the state register in the longer term, also entails the quality balancing of all public hospitals in this respect. Unfortunately, the legal regulation in this area leaves a number of problems. 51/1997 on health services for the prevention and early detection of diseases that may be used in the context of compulsory health insurance, as well as certification of screening tests. In the Annex to the Ministry of Welfare Regulation, there is a chapter on age-bound screening tests, which requires only neonatal hearing testing at 0-4 days of age. However, it does not mention how this is done, so it may even give rise to subjective testing. It was a Christmas gift from 2013 for responsible workers in this area to re-regulation of individual ministerial regulations on health, in which it was formulated in the EMMI Regulation and in which the minimum professional conditions for health services were re-regulated. However, the relevant chapter requires only hearing-filtering equipment in obstetric and gynecological departments or neonatal neonatological departments, and there is no indication of the parameters that these equipment should have. On this basis, the device may be decades old, as many of our hospitals do. In addition, the results of hearing testing by unconventional means may be significantly distorted by the presence of amniotic fluid or fetal icing in the ear canals. Following inaccurate results, additional costly tests often occur unnecessarily. Studies that prove unnecessary afterwards and their time and/or financial burden could be avoided by using more modern tools, such as BERAphone. Furthermore, it is not possible to find legislation that requires mandatory use of hearing screening equipment, supported by OEP, or how to use it. The Ministry of Health's 2009 professional directive on full age-related hearing screening of children aged 0-18 is a thorough study of hearing testing, but this document has no binding force. The result expected by the current regulation is that due to the late hearing loss, our children's speech development, communication or learning ability should not be prevented - at present this is not fully achieved. In this area, Parliament, as has been said, can be seen. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] it still has a number of things to do. So, please, let's not delay any longer. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2014-09-26-124	Thank you very much. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP: " What is the secret of the high Array? " he asked for the word. You have five minutes. Here you go.
u2014-09-26-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm surprised I got here so quickly. Dear Parliament, Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to an interesting phenomenon and attention to the public in the country, because others may be interested in this opportunity. At home, I also do farming in civilians, so I'm somewhat familiar with these land sales, and to my surprise, I found a case in Érd, where I experienced a rise in land prices that, I think, could be of interest to everyone. It is about the fact that András T. Mészáros, mayor of Fidesz, can sell relatively small-scale lands very effectively. A.067/29. ploughing, No 095/11. Ploughing and similar ploughing quantities, a total of 7 or 8 local map numbers, the total quantity of which is less than 2 hectares, and they have been sold for nearly HUF 50 million in the last two years. In fact, since they are largely undivided in common, it cannot be said that they would be suitable for separate arable farming or any farming on their own, since they can now be used without consulting co-owners under the Land Traffic Act, since a significant proportion of these properties cannot be measured, since there are 273 square meters, 1189 square meters, 1345 square meters, 2800 square meters, so there is a relatively small field; therefore the question arises: what is the example of the ordeal that should be learned by the public in the country, how prices can be so high. This nearly two acres of land is special because the buyer has been contacted by our activists to see if he would like to buy more land, because at this price the co-owners would very much like to sell land, but interestingly, the buyer has been excluded from this fact that he is only willing to buy land at this price from the mayor. [[14.40]] The developments in Érd, which have taken place over the past period, have been successful, for a billion or two forints of waste water investment and so on. Obviously, I do not want to bring these operations into line with the sale of land, but there is obviously a question of how it is possible in Hungary today that a mayor can sell land with only 50 million of two hectares. This is important because it has placed on the flag of Fidesz that corruption will be expelled from the country, it will ensure that everything is transparent and clear. In fact, it is not against the law to sell land at very, very high prices, and it is very, very difficult to find such a catch, but it is surprising that, in the absence of a criminal offence, the prosecution does not intend to deal with this case, nor does it wish to draw any symptoms from how two hectares of land could reach HUF 50 million. I would like to ask the members of the honourable government, whether they are engaged in such infrastructure development, or who may be involved in agriculture, whether there is a secret to what position, what position must be filled in order for our land value to begin to grow. Because even the sale of such broken property and undivided land in Hungary would have a relatively high interest, but in the case of everyone else, they are trying to offer only a fraction of these land. So András T. Mészáros sold them, and there is one that the father-in-law of András T. Mészáros sold in this circle, this is an exceptional success story, an extraordinary event of Érd and a very surprising turn of the land prices in Érd. I would very much welcome the government, as a fighter of corruption, to take a position on how to achieve this for someone else, how to do something about it, because, apparently, sellers are shutting down from buying from anyone but the mayor of Fidesz. I'd appreciate it if the government would give me an answer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-09-26-126	Thank you very much. After the agenda, MEP Lajos Kepli, Jobbik, applied for a speech entitled "Real estate transactions in Balaton. " You have five minutes, Congressman. Here you go.
u2014-09-26-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I didn't apply to speak after the agenda again as if I wanted to speak to empty pro-government benches or empty government velvet chairs. [[Turning towards Mónika Duna:]] - sorry, almost empty, not just empty benches - but because it seems that in this Parliament, which is reduced to 200 people, only the Jobbik faction, and I myself, as a representative, continue to deal with the affairs of Lake Balaton from time to time, as our national treasure and as the largest sweet lake in Central Europe. Today, I would like to say a few words about real estate transactions. On Wednesday, the issue of freeing the coasts was how more coastlines could be made available. Today another problem is being dealt with, which includes several real estate transactions in which no solution has been found to date. Back in 2000, the case of the SCD Group dates back to the time when HUF 3 million of capital was created, and at the time of the first Orbán government, thanks to the Széchenyi plan, the company received HUF 2 billion of non-refundable state aid for hotel reconstructions. Shortly thereafter, he was bought by the spookyly similar name SCD UK, i.e. a British limited liability company. Then, in 2005, the company, which already has hundreds of millions of HUF traffic, acquired the ownership of the three tourist companies, Balatontourist, Siótour and Zalatour, and thus almost all the camping on the shore of Lake Balaton. Until 2014, the construction of 28 luxury hotels and holiday villages was promised for HUF 104 billion, of which, to date, as my fellow Members obviously know, nothing has been achieved. The value of the properties on the lake skyrocketed when, in November 2006, the National Assembly, with the agreement of all the parliamentary factions at that time, voted for the basically tailored lex SCD, according to which the Balaton Act was amended by increasing the construction capacity of the campsites from 8 percent to 25 percent, under certain conditions 50 percent, the height of the buildings and the maximum installation height from 4 and a half meters to 8 metres. The amendment of the law made possible the survival of areas filled without permission from Lake Balaton's water surface. This amendment was only in the interests of the SCD Group, as the company gained tens of billions of HUF worth of wealth rights from the moment it was adopted. The Hungarian state and the local authorities concerned have been damaged, as has the built and natural environment, by ensuring the possibility of destruction. The promised improvements, as I mentioned before, have been cancelled. The SCD tried to get out of business with a huge profit, and finally, as we know, it got out of its portfolio in Balaton. All that remains for the municipalities concerned is to look at areas that are untapped. During this cycle, I have asked several times about an exchange of land in Balatonvilágos in 2011 and my suspicion of misrepresentation. To this day, there has been no judgment. These lawsuits have been going on for years, and we're just waiting to see if there's gonna be any justice in these real estate cases. But there is also the case of Club Aliga; my fellow Member, Jobbik and Mrs Hegedűs, also reported the sale of the former party resort. And I could tell you a long time ago how many properties there are in the area of Lake Balaton that were bought with the aim, or even not, of creating, but with the story that they will create various billions of dollars of investments on those properties, and none of them have been realised to this day. There used to be a number of cases like this on the table in Parliament, but once again, no judgment has been reached. A motor racing track is built on a Balatonfőkajár. The construction works are obvious, as I walk along the highway from week to week, as if they were stuck. I hope this real estate investment doesn't come to this fate. There, too, a foreign-owned resident company acquired ownership of the property. I would therefore respectfully ask the representatives of the government, I do not know if I will get an answer, but I will ask what they intend to do in order to make use of these properties. The region is living or trying to make a living in tourism, but mostly it's trying to make a living. These are the remaining investments, improvements, if not in the construction of these companies, but in any case they are missing from the lake shore and are a priority resort zone. So it is a serious disadvantage for people living at Lake Balaton in terms of job creation, for municipalities in terms of revenue, and I could tell you that the natural environment has also been damaged. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So I ask what the government intends to do to eliminate this legal anomaly. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-09-26-128	Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Dániel Z. Karpát, Member Jobbik, applied: " Who will save our values? " with the title " You have five minutes. Here.
u2014-09-26-129	Mr President, Dear House of Tooths! Óbuda is an island in the capital, as if the Creator had ripped a piece out of every characteristic part of Hungary and put them together nicely. There can be peacefully a suburb, a large number of panels, or even the magical streets and slopes of the Northern Old Village that allow literal time travel. Perhaps this is why the people of Obuda are particularly careful to protect the slices and fragments of historical heritage that fall into this beautiful area. This is why the rumors of the closure of the historic Csillaghegy beach bath have spread among the locals on numerous occasions over the past few years, and there is a strong suspicion that after some time this may not only be news, but also news. We have to say that it is a historical institution far older than the century, and in the background it may also be that the spa is located at the foot of a later'19 - acre archipelago, part of its territory belongs here, and in the particularly valuable part of it, the land protected by monuments forms an organic unit with the land that was surrounded by residential parks from two directions and then from three directions. Interestingly, the news about the closure of this residential park has almost at the same time seen the light of day and returned from time to time ever since. It can be seen that similar institutions are generally based on the most valuable sources of water. In this case, we know of five sources of medicinal water that have been revealed in this area and are interestingly located in Budapest, as well as dozens of similar institutions in the vicinity of Budapest are threatened by the horror of closure or even closed down. This is unacceptable in the third millennium, where the earth, healthy food, and drinking water are the new oil, the gold reserve that should not be released from our hands, so we should take care of every drop of it. What does reality show? Instead of using one of these springs, it pours directly into the sewer, and the rest of the bottle is worth it for an outside company. Therefore, the untenable situation could arise that we can only buy our own water 200 metres away from a foreign foreign company in the grocery store, while the capital interest does not mobilise measurable energies in the direction that extraction does bring benefits to those who otherwise own or live in this area. [[14.50]] It can also be seen that this frightening moment, that residential parks have surrounded the area, fits perfectly in the regrettable direction of the current government, the current city administration, that we destroy it, " shut it down, sell it,'wasted a lot of historical monuments through trinity. They have protected a great deal, because what is good, let us not argue, that good direction of movement should never be taken away from any leadership, whether it be city management or district management, but at the same time we are facing the threat of historical monuments that are quite simply unacceptable. Luckily, in our habitat, the locals have shown unprecedented cooperation, from the ussa coach to the bourgeois circle, from the radical to the simple civilian, from the historian to the athlete, in order to keep this historic institution - where my great-grandparents, by the way, have already played sports, but where Johnny Weissmüller, known from Tarzan movies, is prepared to shoot known works - should not be left to the fate of closure. It is therefore interesting that, although it is capital property, and I say once again, in a manner where our water is used for its own benefit by aliens, we must say that in the last twenty years substantial development resources have not been mobilised in order to make better use of the area, deprimation, conscious insurgent can be achieved on an ongoing basis, with a reduced period of open hours, artificially keeping ticket prices high, and with neither the elderly in Óbuda nor the young people in the area receiving any measurable discount. So the solution, by constantly bringing such institutions back to life, could be guaranteed that they could not be placed in foreign hands or under disposal. In this case, in the form of a public park, a sustainable institution could be built by means of sport and recreation opportunities for both the elderly and the young, using the power of local businesses. At the same time, since I have no one to ask now, because the pro-government benches are almost completely empty, apart from two persons, the ministerial seats are completely empty, so I may have to ask the question, perhaps I will get a written answer about the level of constitutional protection that our similar historical memorials can hope for, how long we have to argue year after year about what is perfectly natural, so that we can keep it forever, because we have no right to scatter the historical heritage, we should leave them to our offspring, taking care of them and increasing them, in no way expending them. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-26-130	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP, applied for a post - agenda speech: " Are you coming or going? ' The title is given below. You have the floor.
u2014-09-26-131	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Since when is the replacement or appointment of an institution manager a public matter? During a term of appointment or transitional period, the issue of a management mandate is generally within the competence of the institution's maintainer. The KLIK is the responsible organisation for appointments today. Years ago, decades ago, this important status was given the title of director, and the status could only be fulfilled by those who were morally above all doubt, who enjoyed public authority, and who had the necessary professional skills and leadership. Members of the faculty could choose a director from among themselves, as they knew best who would be able to work effectively. Unfortunately, this has changed in recent years. Today we hear about institutional deputies and ex post appointments in Miskolc, Kecskemét, Újpesten, in District I, in Sándorfalvá and now in Püspökladány. It is clear that there are political, ideological reasons behind this, because we find that politics has also moved into the institutional walls of the famous Karacs Ferenc High School of Bishopsladány. At most, the bravest protest against the post-election of dictatorial leaders, while the others silently acknowledge the humiliation, the violence. What feelings will these teachers give students about democracy, freedom of expression, courage, heroism? And the students will soon know if the teacher's credibility is compromised. But why should teachers be humiliated? It's an inevitable question, public or not, what happens at the Bishop's Lady High School. A new leader who has not worked with the faculty, whose acceptance by the faculty is in question, can he be suitable for the task? How can the professional guard work, how can he accept this? What could this possibly mean? Debates, dismissals? What will become of the creative atmosphere? How will the education and training of students be the most important? That's what I wanted to ask you. The KLIK gave more answers to the questions put by the local news portal, the haon. They replied: "Besides Mrs Pető's assignment, her professional knowledge, preparation, professional history, and that she had already performed higher management tasks in Püspökladány. " I would like to say that the leadership of the new leader, Margit Petőné Papp, is thoroughly questionable because of the HUF 77 million financial crisis in the multipurpose educational institution in 2012, since he immediately resigned from the director-general's post when it was discovered and thus admitted his incompetence. The mayor, who is fideszes, has accepted his resignation, but has not initiated an investigation into the irregularities of farming. Margit Petőné Papp did not meet the expectations at the time, and he acknowledged it himself, but now he has become suitable again. I wonder what's in the background. It is well known that he is a significant figure within the local Fidesen. In our opinion, high school is a source of knowledge, an open door to universities. The teacher should be a role model, and the director should be a legend. We can slowly say that this trend has become national, and today the principals come and go in schools, the head of institutions as the local head of the KLIK wakes up in the morning. Here I would like to read a passage - and that concludes my speech - from the letter from the parents of Miskolc. " We went through a challenge that strengthened, forged this community, strengthened our faith in the truth, in each other. And this feeling is beautiful, touching, traumatic, uplifting, cathartic. It's a miracle, it can be exemplary for others. Our story may give strength to others who are in similar trouble because unfortunately there are many. Maybe they saw it, heard it, read what we did. " I'd like to tell you, we've seen, we've heard, and we've been given strength. And we will fight to bring justice to the Bishop's Lady students, parents and educators. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-26-132	Thank you very much. Márta Demeter, MSZP, on the way to a million new jobs, applied for a post - agenda speech. You have the floor, Congresswoman. Here you go.
u2014-09-26-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, " Classic diplomacy is a thing of the past. Instead, it is necessary to pursue a foreign policy which is clear and confessed, and which is in no way ashamed of the objective of external economic interest. From here on, it will be much easier to measure our external performance: whether we can attract more investors, increase Hungarian exports, put Hungarian companies in position at foreign tenders. This will be your final measure. From now on, the effectiveness of a foreign representation is measured not in grams of paper sent home, but in the amount of capital imported, how much goods were exported, and how much domestic jobs might have been created. " These are the sentences that Peter Szijjártó said at the foreign minister's meeting. Dear House, The focus on external economic aspects in diplomacy is not from the devil. Today, there can be a legitimate expectation for foreign representations to strengthen their relations in this direction. This is illustrated by the examples of many countries. But let's just say it wasn't at the expense of the others. The values and merits of classical diplomacy cannot be swept aside or thrown away, but can only be built on them to implement a successful foreign economic strategy. But let's see what the Hungarian foreign economic strategy should be built on today. What are the solid foundations, foreign policy values and commitments that we can build on, even in the ally or partner system. Unfortunately, it's a very devastating picture. Over the last four years, foreign policy has become a hostage to Viktor Orbán's personal ambitions. Everything was ad hoc about what the Prime Minister was thinking. Viktor Orbán's illusions lie behind the current foreign policy activity: he believes that we have become a great and strong world nation and we are in a strategic position. [[15.00]] However, the Kurdar of Hungarian foreign policy is well characterised by the fact that most of our Western allies are turning away from us. Fifteen of the EU Member States have been in diplomatic conflict since May 2010, typically due to anti-democracy, rule of law and market economy government action. Dear House, The concept of Eastern opening, which is extremely important for hopeful jobs and the external economic strategy that the government has dreamed of, was also a failure, since it was an illusion to think that interest-based relationships would replace our traditional allies. As a result of this policy, Hungary's weight and influence have become even more devalued in the region and in the European Union. Insularity within the federal system is indicated by the fact that the current foreign affairs administration is opening new Hungarian embassies in Mongolia and Ecuador, while closing them in two EU Member States, Estonia and Cyprus. Estonia and Cyprus do not understand the Orbán government's decision either. While Hungary has a serious linguistic, cultural and historical relationship with one of them, in the other case many of our fellow countrymen would need help. The decision is inexplicable, as the government is opening new Hungarian embassies in Mongolia, Ecuador, in the name of the modernisation of the foreign representation network, which, according to official communication, is in line with the foreign policy strategy for Eastern opening. In Tallinn, because of linguistic, cultural roots, emotional proximity, common interests within the European Union, the decision was received and shocked, and unfortunately we did not have to wait much for the counter-action: the Baltic country also announced that it would close its embassy in Budapest. It is questionable whether the Tallinn Hungarian Institute and the Estonian Institute will be able to maintain good relations between the two countries, especially in the light of the fact that the Tallinn Hungarian Institute has not had a director for three and a half years. After the closure of the Embassy in Nicosia, the Hungarians living, working and vacation in Cyprus will have a very difficult time, because if they want to do some consular business, they can only get to Athens by plane and for a small amount of money. At Péter Szijjártó's ministerial hearing, in response to two questions, he promised to consider holding the Hungarian embassy in Tallinn, taking into account the above aspects and the security policy aspects that have arisen. In the meantime, it turned out that there was no money or money, but it was needed to open the embassy in Mongolia and Ecuador. Hungarian diplomacy is now working to eliminate allied relations systems. The Hungarian Prime Minister sent the ambassadors back to their host country by saying that only the weak and stupid follow a value-based policy. How will Hungarian foreign policy and foreign economic interest be successful? [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] How can we attract investors? And how can we put Hungarian companies and Hungarian jobs in foreign tenders? We don't think so. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-26-134	Thank you very much. After the agenda, Mr László Kiss, MSZP, spoke with the title "Divide in Transcarpathia. " You have the floor, please.
u2014-09-26-135	Thank you very much. If you allow a short detour, I am very pleased to hear about the Csillaghegy beach here in the walls of the House, because what my colleague Dániel Z. Karpát said affects a lot of people, because it is one of the most beautiful beaches in Hungary. These lines are important. I would now like to talk about another subject, which policy the government is pursuing in Transcarpathia. The members of the government have been in this area quite often lately, which is very right, because it is important to support Hungarians living in difficult economic and political conditions in this war conflict, which is ahead of us, between Ukraine and Russia. Due to the serious military conflict, the military service was re-introduced here, and these Hungarian people, Hungarian families, live in fear and fear of when they will take their children to the Russian border to fight. In this situation, therefore, there is a great need for support. A few weeks ago Minister Zoltán Balog visited Nagybereg, and today Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is attending the opening ceremony of the Hungarian College in Beregszász, where he also negotiates with representatives of the Hungarian Cultural Association of Transcarpathia. In these two visits, there are two things alike: one is that they were both in educational institutions, this is a nice thing; the other is that they have only met and met one of the Transcarpathian Hungarian organizations, KMKZSZ. Zoltán Balog Nagyberegen said: " The Hungarians of Transcarpathia are not allowed, " I quote, " is the luxury of disintegration. This is not a time to fight, but a time to join forces, because there are elections coming, where Transcarpathian Hungarians must vote in the same direction... " and " think to have a strong representative in the Kiev Parliament. " We fully agree with these lines, but there is a question as to why, whether you are a minister or a Reformed minister, you are not leading by example, why you are not doing what you are otherwise saying. Why did you sit down with only one political organisation during your two-day visit to Transcarpathia? In addition to the leaders of the Hungarian Cultural Association of Transcarpathia, why has the Prime Minister not found an opportunity to meet with the Hungarian Democratic Alliance of Ukraine? Why is the Prime Minister missing today's programme to meet with the present only Hungarian Member of the Ukrainian Parliament, István Gajdos? This one-sidedness is not surprising in itself, as the current Hungarian government already pushed the Hungarian Democratic Alliance of Ukraine out of the system of national cooperation in 2010, in view of its national security risk, in violation of the Hungarians who represent this organization or even the idea of the Hungarians of the united Transcarpathia. Hungarians living in different regions across borders and Hungarian organisations across borders have experienced Fidesz's policy of division over the past four years, the inability of organisations to comply with the current government, the exclusion or even defamation of subsidies. At the same time, I think it is unprecedented to exclude a cross-border organisation from the Hungarian-Hungarian contact institution in an insidious way. So the luxury of disintegration is what the Hungarian government is doing in Transcarpathia. The luxury of disintegration is that when the Hungarians in Transcarpathia are afraid of tomorrow, they fear and fear when the war touches them, they fear and fear how their personal fate will turn out, and the Hungarian government does nothing but continue the luxury of disintegration. It allows itself to maintain communication with only one of the two Hungarian organizations operating in Transcarpathia. He allows himself to completely neglect the other organization, which had previously been slandered, from their relationship. I would just like to note quietly in this House that the slanders that István Gajdos' identity was, to this day, have not been made public. There were committee meetings, but as usual, all the essential content of Fidesz was encrypted. Therefore, we say that what the Government is doing in Transcarpathia is a very high luxury, and we ask that Minister Balog not only demonstrate and adapt to the need for cooperation at the school opening in one speech, but also in reality. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2014-09-26-136	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the autumn session is expected to take place on Monday 13 October 2014, subject to the forthcoming municipal elections, according to our working order. Thank you for your work. The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 3:08 p.m.]]
