u2014-12-10-0	Good morning, fellow Members. I warmly welcome all of you and all those who are following our meeting today. I would like to inform you that Mrs Loránt Hegedűs and notary László Földi will be here to help me. The 26th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. Dear Parliament, Sixty-six years ago, in the shadow of the horrors of World War II, as a result of a lengthy historical and legal development on 10 December 1948, the United Nations General Assembly adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Article 1 of which states that all human beings are born freely and have equal dignity and right. [[8.00]] It's been a long and rough historical journey. The general recognition of human rights dates back to the last few centuries of human history, but it cannot be separated from its antique and Christian natural history. At the same time, the first real embodiments of modern human rights were representatives of modern civil nature schools, who pointed out that people were born with rights that did not come from the states, but that they had a duty to guard them. For many centuries, however, the theory has not been fully part of political practice, the tragic consequences of which have been experienced by mankind. Because, as many have said, the most beautiful words do not mean anything if citizens do not feel its power. Because, after a long time, the Universal Manifesto of Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights adopted by the United Nations on 16 December 1966, as well as the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, had not been fully implemented. We have seen that it is not enough for a right to be formally part of the legal system to be able to exercise the right. This is why it is of particular importance that the countries that have signed the declaration have also committed 66 years ago to protect their citizens, who are being harmed or unjust, and are also taking action against human rights violations. Since 1950, we have remembered the day of human rights. This document is a fundamental source and catalogue of human rights, ensuring the smooth functioning of human rights and also serving as a measure of respect for these values. At its plenary session on 8 December 1998, Parliament issued a political statement on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the adoption of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In this, the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights is a milestone, and it considers its consistent and full enforcement to be an essential moral and political duty for present and future generations. Dear Parliament, Next up is the DA's office. A joint general debate on the reports submitted by the Attorney General on the activities of the Public Prosecutor for the years 009, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013, together with the proposals for decisions submitted by the Judicial Committee on the adoption of the reports of the Public Prosecutor's Office's activities for 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 until closure. Reports B/64, B/75, B/83, B/92. and B/145. in figures H/2210, H/2212, H/2116, H/2217. and H/2218 received or accessed by numbers on the network. I would like to inform you that the Justice Committee has initiated the Parliament's decision to accept the reports by submitting proposals for decisions. Dear Parliament, First, I would like to ask and give the floor to Mr Péter Polt, the author of the reports, in a 30-minute time frame, who will speak here on the stand. I'll wait for the Attorney General to wake up. Mr. Attorney General, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2014-12-10-1	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members of Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, It is my honor to present here in front of the House a report on the last five years' work of the Public Prosecutor's Office of Hungary. This is also a problem, of course, because it is not a year, but five years of activity that must be reported here, so forgive me if I do not know everything. I would like to add that I have submitted the written report in full compliance with my legal obligations for all five years, which include the prosecution's activities. The entry into force of the Fundamental Law of Hungary on 1 January 2012 together with the creation of two fundamental laws on the prosecution established the constitutional status of the prosecutor's office today. Article 29 (1) of the Fundamental Law states that the Attorney General and the Public Prosecutor's Office are independent and, as a public prosecutor, the public prosecutor is the sole enforcer of the State's criminal claim. The Public Prosecutor's Office pursues crimes, acts against other illegal acts and omissions, and facilitates the prevention of illegal acts. The Fundamental Law therefore defines the Prosecutor's Office as not an independent branch of power, but as an independent constitutional institution. In 2012, the new regulation was subject to scrutiny by the Constitutional Legal Advisory Council of the Council of Europe, the Venice Commission, and summarised its opinion on the regulation of the prosecutor's office. The conclusion of the document was that both the Fundamental Law and the fundamental provisions comply with European democratic requirements. Let me quote the summary: given the diversity of possible models of prosecutorial organisation systems in Europe, the general principles of the operation of the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office are in line with the democratic principles of the prosecutor's office. Public prosecutorial laws have created an autonomous organisation with a hierarchy that allows prosecutors to be free of party politics and also to be subject to important anti-corruption regulations. At the same time, the independence guaranteed in the Fundamental Law includes controllability. This is, by the way, an important criterion for the part of the state-of-law guarantees in the prosecution structure. Accordingly, as I have mentioned, the current Attorney General General has fulfilled their reporting obligations over the past period and submitted their annual accounts. In view of the Plenary Audit functions, 38 oral questions were addressed to the Attorney General during the reporting period, while 107 oral questions were addressed and 16 interviews were answered until the institution ceased to exist. There have been significant changes in the organisation and functioning of the DA's office over the past five years. As I said, in November 2010, the interpellation of the Attorney General ceased, the rules on the election of the Attorney General, the prosecution's office, the adoption of the Law on the Service of the Prosecutor's Office have changed. In this context, as a structural change, military prosecutors have ceased and the Public Prosecutor's Law has made a conceptual change in the field outside criminal law. Allow me to say a few words about the administration and the state of personnel of the prosecutor's office. The prosecutor's office held HUF 29.4 billion in 2009 and HUF 36.8 billion in 2013. The increase in the visible subsidy appropriations was determined by the need to support additional tasks in the reporting period, and thus, in particular, the mandatory participation in the hearing on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision was 2.9 billion, the integration of military prosecutors 1.5 billion, the amendment of the law implementing judicial reform 3.2 billion, the additional tasks in the areas of corruption and other violations of the purity of public life and in the fight against official crimes of 1.2 billion. [[8.10]] At the same time, during the reporting period, we reduced the expenditure in rem, hijacked the reward forecast and unified the cafeteria system. This meant spending cuts of HUF 1.6 billion in internal farming. At the same time, the resources provided have proved to be sufficient to ensure the fulfilment of the duties of the Public Prosecutor's Office in a cost-effective manner. As regards the situation of persons, the number of authorised persons was 3339 in 2009 and increased to 4271 in 2013. From this, prosecutors could have been 2034 on 31 December 2013, undersurgeons on 131, authors on 414. This is, of course, just the frame number. The increase in staff was determined by the need to carry out the additional tasks already mentioned. In particular, I would like to highlight the mandatory participation in all court trials, which required a significant increase in the number of staff. I would like to report that the IT situation of the Public Prosecutor's Office has greatly improved over the last five years, that the Public Prosecutor's Office operates a national remote data transmission network and that by 2013 we have implemented the necessary solutions to ensure high availability systems. In 2013, all judicial records were already available electronically to prosecutors and there were direct data flows between the prosecutor's office and the relevant organisations in several areas. I would like to say a few words about the activities of the penal branch. From 2012, as I mentioned, my proposal was that the military prosecutors had ceased and that military prosecutors had been integrated into the General Prosecutor's Office. This means that, in addition to their duties in military criminal proceedings, they are involved in the detection, investigation or prosecution of other matters. So the entire department of the DA's office was realized. The prosecutor, as I mentioned, the public prosecutor, who is investigating the terms of the prosecution, oversees the investigation and, in the cases provided for in the Criminal Procedure Act, can carry out the investigation in any case himself. After the investigation, you decide to prosecute, and you represent the prosecution. The most significant change in the prosecution's criminal law enforcement activities over the last five years has resulted from the entry into force of the new Criminal Code. In addition, in the course of the changes in the rules of criminal proceedings, Parliament adopted several laws of major importance for the application of the law. A few words about the role of the prosecutor in the investigation and prosecution. The D.A.'s activities are, of course, adapted to the country's criminal situation. In recent years, the number of registered crimes and crimes has stagnated with some fluctuations. The extent of the total crime in terms of the number of registered crimes is close to 400 to 450 thousand each year, and it remains below it and slightly exceeds it, but it has not reached half a million in years. There was a sharp rise in 2012, at which point there were 472,000 registered crimes, and there was a clear rise in crimes against property, against justice, corruption and the instrument. The most serious crimes against persons, the number of homicides decreased until 2013, when they increased slightly compared to the previous year, and last year 138 manslaughter cases were registered. Corruption crimes have undergone structural transformation in recent years, and this change of structure is continuing. The number of ordinary bribery cases that have become known is essentially stagnating, moving at the same level, while the number and weight of corruption cases related to crimes against economic, financial and property involving the involvement of the actors of the administrative, economic and economic sectors, organised or organised. The number of registered corruption crimes was the lowest in 2010, which was 481, while in 2013 the highest, last year, 1105 corruption crimes were brought to the attention of the authorities. I must mention the offences that violate the order of farming, among which in law enforcement practice the greatest role lies in budgetary fraud, which has been a cumulative fact since 1 January 2012 and, among other things, covers the payment obligations to the State in its entirety. The most typical subject of the crime of fiscal fraud remains the general sales tax. The number of registered offenders in the reporting period ranged from 100 to 120 thousand. During the last five years, the least criminal was in 2012. Overall, it can be concluded that there has been a fundamentally consolidated criminality situation in Hungary in the face of previous explosive increases and adverse quality changes in crime. It should be added that there are sometimes shocking, serious crimes of substance, which have rightly caused public uproar as a result of their intense appearance in the media. It is positive that in the case of the most serious crimes, there is a very high detection rate and that we have recently managed to prosecute several undetected, serious cases, and that we have also been able to find criminals who have fled abroad in countries where they may have felt inviolable. I can inform the Honourable National Assembly of the following in relation to the main procedural data relating to the prosecutor's office. On average, nearly one million cases have been registered and pending in the criminal area over the last five years had to be processed by prosecutors. The workload increased by more than 30,000 cases between 2009 and 2012. Last year, 901,635 cases were filed. The number of cases brought by the investigating authority with an indictment proposal was barely changed between 2009 and 2011, and 123,000 cases had to be examined annually by the prosecutor in terms of capacity to prosecute. About half of the investigations completed were indicted at 50 to 54 percent, while the termination was 11 to 13 percent of the cases brought forward by the indictment proposals. Other handling is a delay in the prosecution and a reference to the mediation procedure. The number of accused persons was between 90 and 100 thousand, with a downward trend since 2009. A significant decrease was also seen here in 2012. The arraignment has been around 96 percent for years. Among the legal institutions for simplifying and speeding up the procedure, the mediation procedure to avoid a judicial journey and the delay of the indictment also show an increasing trend. The number of prosecutors' motions for non-negotiation is decreasing, but the number of claims made to the court for the fastest possible prosecution is rapidly increasing. [[8.20]] The measures required by the indictment proposals took place in over 80 percent of the cases within 30 days. The significance of the prosecution's investigation is growing. The number of investigations completed annually by the prosecution investigating bodies has increased since 2009: 5318 investigations were completed in 2009 and 7715 in 2013 I would also like to say something about the prosecution's activities. In 2009 and 2010, the courts made essentially the same number of final judgments; a substantive decision, not just a judgment. In 2011, there was an outlier year, in 2012 and in 13 the number of them decreased. The reasons for this were, in part, the laws amending Btk., their decriminalisation provisions, such as the increase of the infringement threshold. In addition, it should be noted that the prosecutor's office has urged, with increased intensity and success, the use of legal institutions for the diversion of criminal proceedings from the judicial path. The main prosecutor's activity before the courts was participation in the first instance trials, which increased from around 30 thousand cases in 2009 to almost 50 thousand cases in 2013, i.e. the increase was more than 54 percent. The number of defendants brought before the court has increased greatly. In 2009, 6,300 defendants and in 2013 more than 11,400 accused persons were employed by this Accelerating Institution. In 2013, the use of the institution increased by more than 20 percent. What I have to say about the punishment exercise is that in recent years, an average of 11 to 22 defendants per year have been sentenced to life imprisonment by the court. This is less than 1 percent of all those who are punished. In 2013, there was a major increase in this number. In the last five years, most often, prison sentences have been imposed by the courts. More than one third of those who were charged were punished with this kind of punishment. Over the past five years, the prosecution has continued to seek to increase the penalties that have been held mildly, and more than three quarters of our appeals have been aimed at increasing the penalty. However, it should also be said that the effectiveness of the infringement appeals is significantly below the overall effectiveness of appeals. The highest success percentage is 30,6 percent, the lowest 26,6 percent in this area. Emergency redress is an important tool for a single application of law. Over the last five years, there has been a steady increase in the number of requests for review. The effectiveness of the prosecution's motions in this area was about 90 percent. The investigation of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office also serves the uniform interpretation and application of the law. Several of these studies were carried out annually after 2009. From this point of view, it is important to examine the reasons for the different judicial decisions, to examine the application of the medium-rate penalty rule and to examine cases that have been terminated with limitation in terms of what has led to this, and to examine even the experience of resigning from the hearing. Very briefly about children's and underage affairs. On average, 10 percent of all offenders registered in the last five years were underage. One of the important provisions of the new Btk. is the extension of criminality to the ages of 12-14, in specific cases and under certain conditions. In 2013, i.e. in six months, 18 cases were interviewed as suspects between 19 and 14 years of age, mainly because of violent crimes against property. In the last five years, the prosecution has prosecuted an average of 5,500 juvenile cases per year. I'd like to move on to the public sector, the public interest field. The Public Prosecutor's Law, which entered into force at the same time as the Basic Law, has brought conceptual changes in this area. The new Valentine's Day. the prosecutor also acts as an agent of the judiciary in the course of his public interest protection activities and carries out his or her powers to eliminate the violation of the law, in particular by initiating litigation and non-court proceedings, by bringing an appeal and by initiating administrative proceedings. A new element of the legislation is that legal supervision has been replaced by judicial control or examination of documents which can be carried out in individual cases. It should be noted that if the data or other circumstances revealed by the prosecutor in the course of an inspection or examination of documents in order to protect the public interest indicate a serious breach of law, action should only take place if the prosecutor is able to initiate proceedings before a judicial or public authority under the statutory authority. Following the entry into force of the Public Prosecutor's Law, in addition to the changed toolkit of prosecutors, while ex officio legality investigations were terminated, the number of calls exceeded the outstanding data of the previous period for the legality measure in the initial years and in 2013 as well. The effectiveness of the calls in the last two years was 97 percent and 98 percent respectively. The toolkit for prosecutors to eliminate serious infringements thus met the requirements of the legislator and provided the public interest attorney with an effective opportunity to take action, which can be enforced at the same time before the court. It is also the result of a new regulation on the public interest protection activities of the prosecutor that, in accordance with the Public Prosecutor's Law and the Civil Procedure Act, the President of the Council may, in proceedings before the Curia, call on the Advocate General to state his position on the issue of law, even if the prosecutor does not take part in the proceedings. This call has been made on a number of such matters which are important to society as a whole. Child protection is a priority in the field of public interest, one of which is an effective new tool to initiate an official procedure. Public prosecutor's audit of the functioning of institutions active in child protection services has been ongoing since 2012. Following investigations by the Public Prosecutor's Office, the institutions have essentially all eliminated and improved the possibilities of contact between children and parents. Protecting the environment and nature is also a priority in this area. In the enforcement of prevention, restoration and liability, the prosecutor is also an effective means of initiating an administrative procedure against acts of unlawful interference with the environment. The right to bring an action in the public interest in relation to the right to bring legal proceedings granted by a special law should be mentioned in relation to the loan shark contract in force from November 2011. During the period covered by the report, the prosecutor sued 86 victims in order to protect financially exploited victims in vulnerable situations. The prosecutor's office also paid particular attention when assessing applications for so-called "pocket contract' transactions. The null and void contract was challenged in court by the prosecutor, and if the illegal acquisition of rights could still be remedied by the real estate authority, the prosecutor made an appeal. We have also taken a number of measures in the field of judicial supervision and protection of prison law. This field of expertise is now part of the public sector as a result of profile cleaning. From that date, the legal oversight of the implementation of juveniles' education and the restrictions on the freedom of persons with regard to juveniles was transferred from the child and youth field to the Bv supervisory field. In the last five years, the number of initiatives and the number of measures taken by the prosecutors to the Bv supervisory prosecutors has continued to increase. [[8.30]] It should also be pointed out that in 2013 the number of applications submitted to the Prosecutor's Office increased by 20 percent compared to the previous year. Allow me to say a few words about the prosecution's international activities. First of all, I should like to mention in summary that the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office is a respected member of the European Union prosecutors' offices and of the prosecutors' offices in the countries of the Council of Europe. In 2011 and 2012, the Hungarian Attorney General also served as President of the network of Supreme Prosecutors operating alongside the Supreme Courts of the Member States of the European Union. The most important event of the Presidency was the conference on the impact of the economic crisis on the prosecution's organisation, work and training of prosecutors in May 2012. International activities of the Prosecutor's Office in Eurojust are very important. Eurojust is, as is known, a body of criminal justice cooperation between the Member States of the European Union in the Hague, a body of the European Union. This coordinating body shall assist in the detection of serious cross-border criminal offences. In 2013, the number of Hungarian-related cases was greatly increased by 40 percent, with international cooperation on the repression of crimes being established. We also have important training tasks in this respect, and we are doing this continuously and in increasing numbers. The establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office should be addressed, as this issue is a leading issue in the traditionally good cooperation of the prosecutors of the countries of the Visegrád Group. The Visegrád Four's main prosecutors have established cooperation in Visegrád since 2012 and meet regularly every year to establish a common position on various issues. Such a common position has also been established with regard to the European Public Prosecutor, which, as is well known, will serve to protect the financial interests of the Union. We have issued three statements in this regard. I would add that the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office and myself have also put forward an alternative proposal in this respect, more precisely, for a professional debate, which would allow VAT offences to be included in the scope that can be investigated internationally. Finally, the Consultative Council of European Prosecutors should be informed. This is the advisory body of the Council of Europe Ministerial Committee, which I previously held as Vice-President and worked as a member of the Executive Committee during the period under consideration. This body has issued a number of opinions on the prosecution's activities, which we have been actively involved in, and I can say that all the requirements set out in the opinions are constantly being met by the Public Prosecutor's Office. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Parliament, This is very briefly the essence of the prosecution's activities over the past five years. I am convinced that, as in the previous period, the prosecution has worked legally and effectively during this period. Obviously, there is always something to be done to improve the work, which is what we will continue to do in the future, but our foundations are right for this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-10-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Attorney General. Dear Parliament, Allow me to pay tribute to the leaders of the Mansion in the decorative box, who honour Parliament by following this debate here on the ground as well. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr.György Rubovszky, President of the Judicial Committee, who is the rapporteur of the proposals for a decision; he has a 30-minute timeframe. Mr. President, please.
u2014-12-10-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Although not everyone knows, I have to mention that there are 143 years of independent attorney general in Hungary, the first Attorney General's Office was established in 1871 and then Dr. Sándor Kozma became the Crown Prosecutor. As a starting point, he served for 25 years immediately. At today's hearing, Dr. Péter Polt, Attorney General, is once in the 18th position and then in the 20th position in chronological order, and I mean that he has once, from 16 May 2000 to 16 May 2006. He was followed by Mr Tamás Kovács, and since 18 December 2010, Mr Péter Polt has been Hungary's chief prosecutor again. This also draws attention to the fact that, since this House is negotiating five annual reports in a single debate, it can be excluded that in the first two years, that is, in 2009 and 2010, Dr. Péter Polt was not our main prosecutor, but Dr. Tamás Kovács, and he, as the chief prosecutor in office today, undertook to present both the 2009 and 2010 reports. Dear Parliament, Accordingly, the hearing took place before the Judicial Committee on 27 November 2014 and 9 Members of Parliament were present at this hearing. Decisions have been taken following clarification of a few questions. The decisions had to be made in two directions. Once upon a time, the Committee had to adopt a general prosecutor's report for each year, but at the same time it had to make a proposal for a decision by which the committee had come before this House and asked the Parliament to accept the reports. In all cases, the decision to take these decisions has resulted in the same result. The present eight pro-government representatives also supported the adoption of the report and supported the presentation of a proposal for a resolution for that year. He was a single opposition representative who consistently voted against the adoption of the report for each year and against the proposal for a resolution. With all due respect, I would like to say one more thing, and here I would like to connect with the report of the Attorney General, when he made a statement on the international situation and judgement of the Hungarian Chief Prosecutor's Office. I consider it my duty to say that, in recent times, one or two representatives of the Judicial Committee and I were lucky enough to meet the Attorney General of the French Supreme Court. At the meeting with the Attorney General, it was especially good to be Hungarian. The French Attorney General reported on a very high level of work, and gave a particularly supportive and incredibly supportive voice on the work of the Hungarian Attorney General and on the work of the Attorney General. Dear Parliament, I would then like to ask with respect that the Parliament adopt all five proposals for decisions. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[8.40]]
u2014-12-10-4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I respectfully ask Mr Sándor Patyi Gergely, State Secretary, if he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] No. Then, fellow Members, the speeches will follow. In the first round, speakers will be held within 30-30 minutes. I give the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Mr Zoltán Demeter. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-10-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Dear Parliament, Today we are fulfilling our legal obligations, many times when we are discussing reports on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013. I think it was not easy for the Attorney General to try to sum up these five years, especially because of the fact that, as has already been said, he was not in control of the organisation in the first two. However, on the basis of what has been said, I believe that this report has not been a problem for him, nor has it been the kind of tasks that have been put before him since his appointment. Dear Parliament, First of all, I need to remember the provisions of the Fundamental Law on prosecutors. The Fundamental Law defined the Public Prosecutor's Office as an independent constitutional institution, which was not subordinate to any of the classic powers, and as a central player in the criminal power. In addition to the establishment of the constitutional position of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Fundamental Law clearly defines the main tasks of the Public Prosecutor's Office, including, inter alia, the exercise of investigative rights, the representation of the public prosecutor in court proceedings, the exercise of supervision over the legality of the enforcement of sentences. The Fundamental Law entrusted the organisation and functioning of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the definition of detailed rules for the legal status of prosecutors to a fundamental law, and laid down only the main content issues, the rules on the establishment of the office of the Attorney General and the liability of the National Assembly, the basic principles governing the establishment of a public prosecutor's organisation. These fundamental laws were also adopted by the National Assembly in 2011, on the one hand CLXIII of 2011 on the Public Prosecutor's Office. Act CLXIV of 2011 on the status of the Attorney General, prosecutors and other public prosecutors and on the career of the prosecutor. Law. With regard to the former law, I would like to highlight, on the one hand, the integration of the military prosecutor's office into the prosecutor's organisation and, on the other hand, the fact that the new law has broken off with the traditional concept of judicial supervision of prosecutors. From the entry into force of the law, the prosecutor shall exercise, in the first instance, the right to bring legal proceedings and to act under the law. Accordingly, the Public Prosecutor's Office should consider the increased enforcement of the public interest and, as part of that, legal protection as its defining characteristic. The Public Prosecutor's Status Act also contains in detail the rules on prosecutor's bodies, the establishment of a public prosecutor's service relationship and the appointment or termination of a management order, conflicts of interest, qualification, work and remuneration, rest periods, disciplinary and compensation liability, the order in which disputes are dealt with. It provides specifically for the service relationship between the deputy prosecutors and the prosecutors, officials, clerks and physical staff, and for the labour law issues of the employees of the prosecutor's office who were previously in the Hungarian Defence Office. It should be pointed out that the new law has abolished the role of prosecutors as investigators because they cannot carry out independent investigative activities and that administrative tasks can be carried out professionally and effectively by prosecutors. The terms of appointment of a prosecutor have been adapted to the needs of the practice and to the rules on the status of judges, and we have allowed the prosecutor to be appointed for a further limited period of time if the suitability is not clear. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress here that Parliament has taken account of the previous decisions of the Constitutional Court both in the establishment of the Fundamental Law and in the adoption of the adopted laws. On 3/2004. The Court of Justice of the European Union held that, although it is not an independent branch of power, it is an independent constitutional body. The Constitutional Court has placed the prosecutor's office as a public body in a system of justice in the wider sense, stating that the attorney general is the professional and non-political leader of the organisations under him. Thus, its liability to Parliament only includes the obligation to report, explain, answer and appear, and the obligation to perform the tasks set out in the Constitution. As regards the independence of the Public Prosecutor's Office, it should be pointed out that, according to the Constitutional Court's decision, the Supreme Prosecutor is not subject to any other body, including Parliament. The National Assembly controls the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in two ways, through its limited obligation to reply under the annual general prosecutor's report or the operative part of the General Prosecutor's Office. All other interpretations are contrary to the principle of power-sharing, ensuring separate independent functioning of constitutional bodies. The Fundamental Law therefore regulates the status of the General Prosecutor and the Public Prosecutor's Office. It follows that in the performance of the duties of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Attorney General, only the Fundamental Law, the laws and other laws must be taken into account. He is not subject to any other authority or public dignity, and the prosecutors may be instructed only by the superior prosecutor or the Attorney General, until the Attorney General can be ordered to do so. Basic legislation and fundamental laws have created a new legal environment. In our view, the constitutional situation of the prosecutor's office has been strengthened, but this has also put the organisation and the Attorney General to new challenges. Moreover, the new legislation, as reported by the Attorney General, has been examined by several EU and Council organisations. The Venice Commission, which is very often referred to by the opposition, has found that the new law on prosecutors meets the democratic requirements of Europe and has been specifically mentioned as a guarantee of the independence of the prosecution. [[8.50]] In addition to its day-to-day organisational and operational tasks, this autonomous organisation had to prepare for the practical application of the new Criminal Code. Opposition representatives have often expressed concerns about the changed framework of the rightful defence institution, and we have also received many attacks on the criminal enforcement of the principle of three strikes. The reports before us do not support these fears, and according to the Attorney General, they are also able to judge and apply these rules well. After the change of legislation, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that the prosecutor's office, as has been said in the report, managed from HUF 29.4 billion in 2009, until then this figure was HUF 36.8 billion in 2013. I believe that if we expect a quality, good work and new tasks from an organisation, then we must also ensure its financial coverage. The Constitutional Court's decision already referred to was to place the prosecutor's office as a public body in a system of justice in the wider sense, stating that the prosecutor's office is an independent constitutional body of the judiciary. It is therefore appropriate that the labour law situation of judicial and prosecutorial workers is essentially the same. The number of prosecutors was 3339 in 2009 and increased to 4771 in 2013. However, it is important that quantitative changes also result in qualitative changes at both organizational and individual levels, which is why the activities of the Hungarian Attorney's Training Centre should be highlighted, who are supposed to provide this number with appropriate professional training. The persons accused during the reporting period, as we have heard, have made 90-100 000 numbers, and the effectiveness of the indictment has been 96 percent for years. I think this song speaks for itself. Finally, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, from the oral report by the Attorney General, to point out that his organisation, like the Hungarian Government, is an indescribable opponent of all kinds of corruption. According to the report, the number of cases detected and successfully completed has increased in recent years. I believe that this trend can help to ensure that the criterion of transparency in Hungary is fully met and that there is clarity in public life. Overall, the independence of the public prosecutor's office, which is guaranteed at the basic level, has been fully met by the challenges posed by the new legal environment for its organisation and task, and there is an even more effective and effective organisation in Hungary today by applying the new criminal rules. I wish you further success and strength in your work, and I ask my fellow Members to accept the reports in the light of what they have said. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-10-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gergely Bárándy, whose family grief I also express my sincere condolences from here.
u2014-12-10-7	Thank you very much, Mr President, and for your condolences, I am honored. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Dear Deputy President of the Curia, Assistant Attorney General, gentlemen! Madam President! Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, It is both good and bad that if five years of accounts and five years, I stress, the prosecutor's activities are examined and discussed at the same time by the National Assembly. It is bad because many data and many events need to be included in the evaluation, but there is also a great advantage, that a five-year process can be assessed as a process in unity by the Member and Parliament. That's what I'm gonna do. The first words should be a thank you. On behalf of our faction, I would also like to thank the thousands of prosecutors who are pursuing crime, who are working to promote our public security. I would also like to thank the public prosecutors for the work they have done to assist prosecutors in their activities and law enforcement, and they are involved in this, despite the fact that we know very well that they are dealing with staff problems. We know very well that one of the most important developments of both the court and the prosecutor's organization would be to improve the number of assists. So we thank them for their decent work. Under normal circumstances, ladies and gentlemen, the debate should be 70-80 percent about the reports and, in this context, on the positive criticisms and the appreciation of the results achieved. Now, however, if I did, I could hang the image of the great Turkmenbas in my office, as the Turkmen opposition representatives do. I'd be like that sculptor who wants to carve out the fine details of his work before the block of stone was explained from the hillside. I'd be like a man who can't see the woods from a tree. Because only the blind can't see, Honourable Parliament, that while 99 percent of the prosecutors are doing their job fairly, they are pursuing the crime, while some of the public prosecutors' departments have become ministers of government parties and have served active political interests over the past four to five years. For example, the Central Investigator's Attorney General's Office has become the Fidesz's fist, unfortunately I have to say, the XXI. It's the body of the state inquisition of the century. The D.A.'s office is biased, partial, based on double standards in matters of political concern. I know, fellow Members, these are serious words. These are serious words, but unfortunately they are true. However, when a Member of Parliament accuses certain public prosecutors and certain public prosecutors, in his speech, of virtually the arraignment of dictatorships, it is only right to seek evidence to support his claim. So let us consider some examples and draw conclusions from them, draw some conclusions from them. Let us look at some cases in which it is not interesting how the individual cases evolve, but the trend, the process that these cases draw before us. Let's start with, say, the General's trial, the so-called General's trial. For now, it's got a first-degree verdict. The prosecution's methods are as follows: I would like to read some quotes to you. You found the lie-forced confession illegally acquired. He declared the confession, with false promise, incompatible with the democratic rule of law. Other methods of proof, the court pointed out, were not used by the prosecutor's office, because you were not convinced that the prosecution was genuine; you only trusted that a man's forced testimony would be enough in the lawsuit. Let's look at the case of former Defense Minister Ferenc Juhász. First degree acquitted in the absence of a crime. What is the subject of the charge, said the court, from 1994 to today - then he could only say it until 2012 - is a practice, i.e. not a crime. That's what all the defense ministers have done, and that's what they're doing today. In the case of the Hun, weinek: first-degree dismissal in the absence of a criminal offence, all defendants have been acquitted. The methods of the prosecutor's office: the court has repeatedly drawn attention to the fundamentally flawed prosecutor's logic. He pointed out that the Public Prosecutor's Office is criticising the municipal law and that the court does not wish to be involved in political matters. [[9.00]] Elsewhere, the court has said that the court cannot become an instrument of political vengeance. That's the D.A.'s rating. The case of Gyula Molnár: there is nothing else to say here but that the case against the mayors seems to be fashionable these days, as Mayor Péter Szitka of Kazincbarcika was also acquitted in the absence of a crime, and Loránd Szabó and the mayor of Dombóvár have already been permanently exonerated in several cases. Let's look at the Sukoro case, in which the prosecutor's office accused him - and it has a weight, my fellow Members, it has a weight, it has a weight - the former Prime Minister of the Republic of Hungary, asked for his immunity and accused him. It wasn't enough to charge him, to terminate the procedure. UD Zrt. In his case, where all four defendants were acquitted - two of them final - the court said at the trial that they were not the ones who should be sitting on the bench. Let me refer to the BKV case, in which we have not yet reached a judgment of first instance in five years, but the indictment is regular, and the current charge is no longer due to the original. In parentheses, I'm telling you, most likely the charges surrounding the verdict won't be in a thank-you relationship with this one either. In this case, we know two things: a series of witnesses reported that forced confessions were made to him, and all we know is that Miklós Hagyó won a lawsuit in Strasbourg for his unlawful detention. We don't know what's gonna end this case yet. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is about a collection of cases that were the favorites of Fidesz indictors and the right-wing press at the time and perhaps even today. And how is there a restraining order, my fellow Members? Yeah, of course. A state can't function without corruption. We have to fight it, we have to do everything we can to make it happen, but unfortunately, we can't eliminate it, just like the other crimes. But - and now let us draw the conclusion from this, honourable Members - the prosecution, I do not know if there is a reason or no reason, but I am proud of the fact that the prosecution has been more than 95 percent for years. Over 95%! Let us now look at matters of political concern, my fellow Members. Time will prove that this will be 20, 30 or 40 percent indictment, but if it doesn't go over 50, I'll say it here. [[Dr. István Józsa: What does that mean?]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think that's a legitimate question someone's asked. This means that the system is not working well. It means that the functioning of the prosecutor's office in these matters has been politically motivated - that is what it means, fellow Members. Now, let's set up an imaginary scale, one of whose pans we're putting all the cases we've been dealing with. What can we do with the other one? András Horváth, who reported the thousand billion-dollar VAT fraud case, and ended up being accused? The case of Ákos Hadházy, who reported the series of frauds in connection with the traffic applications, and then was dragged into the hands of the authorities? I'm just gonna put it in parentheses, and I'm gonna ask, if the General's trial is based on the testimony of a single witness, then why couldn't Ákos Hadházy's case be based on his testimony? Oh, that's because he's involved with fidesz politicians. That explains it. Should I mention the case of the mayor of Szekszárd, where a voice recording - once again, a voice recording - has proved the act of corruption in connection with the trade-options, but has the procedure not started? Or the case of the Fidesz Vice Mayor of Szombathely, where video recording and photography prove drug abuse, hasn't there been a procedure? Or a series of evidence - backed reports in the field of land that did not open proceedings? Or, during the operation of the Orbán government, the cases discovered by investigative news portals, none of which the D.A. did believe should be investigated? The fact that tens and hundreds of thousands of protesters from Transparency International through the U.S. Attorney, everyone talks about institutionalized corruption, and the prosecution doesn't do anything about these cases? And then, ladies and gentlemen, when we look at this imaginary scale, we see that the prosecution has been tested and found light. We need to mention two more issues. I've already done one in part, it's about the prosecution's methods and methodology in these cases, forced confessions, forced confessions under influence, for example, I mentioned in the General's case. Let's look at other ways. Such are the adaptation of procedural acts to political events. My fellow Members will give examples of this, and I would like to highlight three. Ladies and gentlemen, When Gyula Molnár, who later was legally suspended by the court, four days, I say once again, is suspected four days before the municipal elections, he will be served personally with a subpoena of suspicion; when our fellow Member Dezső I believe he is asked by the prosecutor's office three weeks before the municipal elections and suspects him - both of them were mayors and sub-Mayors running in the odd district - when - not only to mention his own examples - Béla Kovács wishes to bring the better MEP to the prosecution just before the election of the European Parliament, then I think that once again the image is drawn from the systemic process of adjusting procedural acts to political action. Ladies and gentlemen, I have completed the same university as the prosecutors who have been acting, for ten years as a criminal defender, and I have obtained the scientific degree in the same field where the Attorney General, in the field of criminal sciences, does not tell me that it is a coincidence that these events have reached the point where procedural action must be taken, because I cannot believe it, because it is simply not true. This is how they are intended to happen. But let's keep going. Let's see how the leaks work. When it comes to opposition politicians, the Hungarian nation is extremely well informed. We will be able to get the news from there before the prosecutors, by the way, from the prosecutors who are very willing to be at the press staff's disposal at this time, and to analyse with extreme precision the cases that otherwise concern the criminal matters of opposition representatives. What's the other side of the coin compared to this? That when we ask the questions about the very few cases, which are embarrassing for the ruling parties, we get answers that unfortunately we cannot provide any more information about the ongoing cases, and in view of the interests of the investigation, we cannot provide any more information and the rest. Where is equality? Why can't I just say that this is a typical case of double standards? I don't think that's a coincidence. And I believe that there are journalists of the Hungarian gender who can obtain records and information on criminal matters in some cases, but, fellow Members, that the Hungarian Nation is becoming almost an official newspaper of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, because in these cases the prosecution's protocols are published in the columns of the Hungarian Nation in pdf, scanned, this is unacceptable. Unacceptable! Let's look at one more so that the Hungarian truth can be three. Of course, there's more to mention, but there's probably not enough time for that. Intimidating acts of procedure. You know, in a lot of cases, we didn't talk to colleagues within the group - and the rest - about how true some of the scenes of the movie "The Witness" are these days, when, for example, the point is, is that not the point? Ladies and gentlemen, How is it that you accuse me of a fractional case - this BKV case - of a woman who is then taken away from your children in handcuffs by the D.A.'s office, of causing a financial disadvantage of HUF 2 million? [[9.10]] How's that? Ladies and gentlemen, how is this possible? When, in such a case, in all other cases, a crime of this weight is caught and the summons is sent out to come in and be suspected. The 6-8-10-12 VHF car goes out here, surrounds the house, and takes you in handcuffs, this woman. Ridiculous, honourable Members! The problem is, it's not ridiculous, it's sad. These are methods which are not permitted in a rule of law. And I understand, and I know exactly why. The reason for this is that this was a direct associate of the Miklós Hagyó, on whom the information was collected, that is why. And after such an event, a woman who is at home with two children, two young children, and will be placed under pre-trial arrest after such a series of events, may confess incriminatingly whether it is true or not, but will testify incriminatingly to Miklós Hagyó. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this prosecution's operation is not only critical, but can only be critical, regardless of whether, by the way, I once again point out, this applies to certain prosecutors, certain prosecutors' chiefs and certain public prosecutors' departments; 99 percent of prosecutors, who carry out their duties fairly, committed to law enforcement, are not. I would like to switch to another line, another approach, the relationship between the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office and the National Assembly, which is a very specific relationship, a specific relationship that has developed in recent years. The problem is not that these branches of power cooperate with each other, and even the Fundamental Law requires mutual cooperation. The problem is, if this relationship works in a way that doesn't fit into the existing legislation. Let's say a few words about legislation, perhaps. Obviously, the DA's representatives remember exactly what I'd like to recall now, it was 2011. At the opening of the meeting, the Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs said that the agenda should be supplemented by a new proposal which he had received two hours earlier and which he intends to submit as a proposal from the Committee. So far, a lot of interesting things wouldn't be in it, because it was a drill. Since you do not know its contents - from here it becomes interesting - you have given the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice, Mr Répássy, who will, and I quote, tell you exactly what it contains. Once the Secretary of State has been given the floor, the protocol will continue this way, and again I quote: "Dear Commission! I will not be able to describe the proposal in full depth. [[Defiance.]] After a little while, the opposition's question of who brought this proposal here, from whom it came from, the president said, again I quote: "I am informed that the Chief Prosecutor is behind the proposal, and they would like it to come into force. The president later, because there was a debate, confirmed in the press that the proposal was made at the DA's office. In his speech, the Secretary of State pointed out that, according to our portfolio, the honourable committee, there is a section of this proposal - the ban on the meeting of the defender and the defendant within 48 hours - which raises serious constitutional concerns. 'Secretary,' said the Secretary of State. Then they closed this debate. At a committee meeting, the Secretary of State considered this proposal to be of similar concern and constitutional concern. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to quote one more thing; it was actually the subject of a corridor discussion, which is why, obviously, I will not tell you who it happened to, but I did not think that I would ever hear a sentence from a government representative, a very competent Member on this subject, which sounded like this on this amending package: I do not know what will happen yet, the Ministry is trying to negotiate with the prosecution, perhaps they will allow me to do so. - Well, fellow Members, this is not the form of cooperation, this is not what is permitted, and, you know, more conclusions can be drawn from this case. One was that this was one of the cases that, let me put it this way, wanted to legitimize the forced interrogation, which was intended to ban the defendant from being a suspect in custody for 48 hours. It also contained a number of other provisions, which the Constitutional Court later found to be unconstitutional, but it is perhaps worth taking on the basis of this most important provision, and in this connection not literally, but quoted from the Constitutional Court's decision. The Constitutional Court said that it declared the provisions concerning the protection and the duration of detention in matters of priority to be unconstitutional and contrary to the international treaty because of legal certainty, a disproportionate limitation of the fundamental right to personal freedom and the restriction of the essential content of the rights of defence. That's the great draft that was made in an organizational unit of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office. I know very well that the spokesperson at the time denied that the Supreme Prosecutor had anything to do with this and that they had only received an opinion, only, honourable Members, if we look at a series of events, then it is quite clear that this cannot be true, this cannot be true. In parentheses, it's very interesting that only the Supreme Prosecutor's Office was given an opinion, let's say, and the Supreme Court didn't get an opinion. I can also refer to the fact that, over the last five years, only one proposal has not gone through that which would have broadened the powers of the defendant or the defender. All the amendments to the criminal procedural law - which I had the pleasure of analysing in a study - have increased prosecutor's rights in criminal proceedings. It is no wonder that we know this particular relationship between Parliament and the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, which I presented through the example. The prosecutor's office's audit, and the Attorney General's Office has also spoken about it. Ladies and gentlemen, There was a Constitutional Preparation ad hoc committee in which there was a task force responsible for this. We all agreed - and I agree with that principle - that there are two good solutions. One is the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office or the Public Prosecutor's Office, which is one of the constitutional models; the other, if it acts as an independent body. But we also agreed that if he maintained his independent status, there must also be control mechanisms, control mechanisms. Today, it is about the fact that after five years I can give a speech like this here, and then my fellow Members will be able to speak to it, and then again I think it is not for five years; and that it is possible to ask the Attorney General in an immediate question, or, of course, to write him a letter as a representative, and the Attorney General is obliged to reply under the provisions of the Parliamentary Act, but the interpellation has been removed from the control powers. I know Mr. Attorney General's professional position, and I don't want to debate it. I'm saying it's okay, get out of here. And where was the other proposal, which, in turn, would have created the effective control mechanism that Parliament could instead exercise over the activities of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, for example by putting Commission hearings into a system or in any other way; this somehow got out. In other words, I understand the technical reasons, but what I don't understand is that if we were to take the position that the Attorney General should then have a real responsibility, not only formally, then why didn't we create this system of tools. Why wasn't there such a suggestion? This is what the Venice Commission has highlighted. The Attorney General may have referred to it - although I don't remember it, but if I don't - that the Venice Commission basically considers this structure acceptable - I too - but he noted that the Attorney General is very, very weak and that his control within the organisation and control outside the organisation need to be strengthened. I have not seen any of these proposals, either at the request of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office or as the government's own position; I believe that this should have been done. At the same time, we have seen that the status of the Supreme Public Prosecutor and the Supreme Prosecutor has been significantly strengthened in recent years; it has not been weak, nor has it been weak so far. [[9.20]] I don't even have a problem with this being a relatively strong authority for an independent institution. But the fact that in many cases we have encountered the fact that we have extended either its status or its scope within the organization by legislative proposals is a fact, and I, frankly, do not think that it is right. For example, the power of the Attorney General to order the prosecuting prosecutor to dismiss or prosecute is not, in my view, correct, especially without justification. This has been highlighted many times. Mr Attorney General, believe me, if this were any different, I would be much less able to represent these thoughts here in the pulpit than in the present situation. But in this situation, I do, because the D.A.'s office operates on a one-man basis. Of course, the Attorney General doesn't have to tell you, because I know he doesn't interfere with individual matters. But your opportunity is there, Mr. Attorney General, to do it. Your opportunity is there, and I believe that this alone can raise concerns which, for example, give rise to serious doubts in the cases I have listed. I don't think it's right, I don't think it's right. So if I can ask Mr. Attorney General to do something, it's to try to influence the government and think about changing this system at least, which at least helps the prosecution's objectivity in this regard, or, let's just say, makes it more traceable and better. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that after these thoughts it would be unnecessary and it would be a waste to be involved in the analysis of statistical data. If that's how a system works, it'll cast a shadow on the entire institution. It would be good if there was a change in that. I don't have any illusions. I have no illusions! This speech will probably be no more good than giving some guidance to future researchers on what matters to look at when they want to analyse the functioning of the prosecutor's office. Yet I think that there are professionals in this room who may not see this practice as right. I also think that some of my fellow Members do not think that this kind of biased operation is right. That is why I ask you to at least consider that this should be changed, and it would be worth restoring the considerable professional authority and belief in independence of the prosecution in this country. Finally, with regard to the past few thoughts, I can only think of half the sentence of an elderly professor, which he said in connection with a very similar situation, he was a former constitutional judge. All he said was, when you told him a story like this, that it's happened before, it ended once. Thank you very much. [[A big round of applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2014-12-10-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr György Rubovszky. Here you go.
u2014-12-10-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, I don't want to talk too long. [[Interview from the benches of MSZP: You don't have to!]] In view of the fact that I was present at the hearing myself, and so I can say, on behalf of the Christian Democrats, that I voted in favour of the proposals for a resolution, which was the invitation of the Parliament to accept the report, and I accepted the reports myself. So there's no special change in that. On the other hand, I would like to raise one point in the defence of this House, and that is the only question in which I would like to respond to the comments that Mr Barándy has just made. The possibility of controlling the Attorney General is for the Parliament to listen to him every five years. I would like to point out that the 2009 report was presented by Tamás Kovács at the time of the previous government and the previous house management, and neither the then government nor the then MSZP Group urged that the prosecution's position be clarified and verified as soon as possible. Congressman Bárándy spoke on a long basis on the basis of political considerations. I don't know if he was a fellow Member of László Keller, but he is the bad example who actually started this before the Hungarian Parliament, and let me say this. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's right!]] This, recalling my own representative's practice, was forced by very small, humiliating and forced principles at the time by the Attorney General Péter Polt to investigate the propertyisation of two deer trophies, and he tried to frame the Attorney General with dumber arguments before the immunity committee. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I agree, Mr. President.]] Thank God, the Socialist Committee president of that time. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I agree!]] He wiped this out. So I do not think that we should go along with this, but it depends on the decision of the Attorney General whether he wishes to respond on this issue or not. With all due respect, I would just like to reiterate that the report is accepted by the Christian Democrats for all five years, and we will also vote in favour of the proposed resolution. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-10-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Gábor Staudt, who is speaking from this platform. I'll wait for Congressman to get up on the stand. I give you the floor, please.
u2014-12-10-11	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief Prosecutor - and the Leaders from the Curia, National Court Office! When I heard the words of my fellow Member Rubovszky - that is not exactly what I wanted to start with, but what I have written here is very relevant - I thought that you have raised it now, and I can also say that it is right for the MSZP, the previous MSZP Government and Parliament that the 2009 report has not been discussed, what a terrible thing it is; which really is, because Parliament has to discuss them. But since then, we have been four years, even five years, and now we have to discuss these reports from 2009 to 2013. So the same problem exists in the second Parliament, in which Fidesz-KDNP has a two-thirds majority, in the same way. I do not understand, to be honest, why these reports - although they were obviously submitted to the Parliament, so the prosecutor's office formally complied with them, so this criticism is not addressed to the prosecutor's office - could not have been actually discussed before the National Assembly. In itself, this is also a scandalum, and the attitude of Fidesz and KDNP shows that if you have to point backwards, you will notice all the splinters or beams, because in the eyes of the MSZP-SZDSZ governments it was not only a splinter, but also a lot of beams in their own, but they do not do so in their own case. By the way, I also have to say that, while we are talking about the 2013 report, we should not be discussing it at the end of the year either, now that we are dealing with the budget, now that it is almost January, and these reports, including the 2013 report, have been submitted much earlier, both by the Curia, the National Court Office and by the Supreme Prosecutor's Office. This is the starting point now, and on the basis of this, the whole prosecution and even parliamentary control towards the courts are being questioned, because if we cannot discuss it together before the plenum, even that minimum right will be lost. That's why I'd like to build on the material that the Attorney General has submitted, I'm going to go around in line, or I'm going to take some of it out. [[9.30]] I would like to start by saying that it is very welcome that the Attorney General is also given the opportunity to control standards, to control standards afterwards. We should be happy about that, although I don't remember any time when the Attorney General was living with it. If I'm wrong, then, of course, I'm sorry, and I didn't follow him closely enough, but ex post standard control is good if you use it. All the more so, because it has been taken away from the National Assembly from the opposition to the subsequent norm control, or at least from the opposition of the Members of Parliament. Of course, now you can say that a quarter of Parliament can make a joint submission, perhaps in one case. Obviously, it is possible to argue that, if every citizen is given the opportunity to control the rules, but at least one Member of Parliament can turn to the Constitutional Court on his own, this would certainly be expected. Or, if this was already deprived of Members of Parliament, those bodies or leaders, or the Attorney General, who were otherwise entitled, should have fulfilled this function if we parliamentary representatives had been deprived of it. It says here that 1105 corruption crimes will be reported in 2013. The number of this has increased and the number of official bribes has tripled. This, of course, can be interpreted as a higher detection rate, but I fear that this represents an increase in total volume and not a significant increase in detection indicators. I would like to ask - because I have not seen this in the material - how many cases have been dealt with in cases of corruption or corruption or corruption of office in the case of public actors, parliamentary representatives, local government representatives or even close to government contractors, close to the party's party. Because it may have been, but it hasn't been shown to the press, but we feel that the governing parties or the pro-government interests are inviolable and untouchable. Of course, I am very pleased if you can deny that with numbers. What is certain is that corruption is growing in Hungary. And not only do we say this, and not just people feel it - of course, you can underestimate people's feelings, but sooner or later it will lead to very bad results. This is, of course, a political result in terms of the composition of the National Assembly, which also affects the prosecution, because if Fidesz loses most of it, the two-thirds of it in the future, then it can obviously affect the person of the Prosecutor's Office or the General Prosecutor's Office, which the National Assembly chooses. Transparency International may have published a statement yesterday, in which it is clearly stated that we are worse off not only than four years ago, but more than a year ago on the basis of corruption statistics, which does not mean that corruption has just begun in Hungary, but at least not lower. While we're in a hole, as the folk saying goes, let's stop digging first and then try to bury this hole. And in the meantime, what do we see? America has banned six Hungarian citizens to which one can say, on the one hand, that America should not interfere in Hungarian domestic affairs, on the one hand, that is the case, but it is probably necessary to respond to these accusations or statements or to give a reaction to the government and to the prosecution itself. It's not good and it's not acceptable that the government doesn't know who these banned people are. So this is as far as we have come, while the Americans are already saying that they are not talking about, for example, Ildikó Vida - the only one of the six who revealed that he was actually on this list - is not that they were banned or Ildikó Vida was banned because he didn't do everything to prevent corruption, but that he was involved in specific corruption crimes. Of course, we expect evidence from the U.S. State, the U.S. Attorney General, but it's more the case in black-African countries for dictatorships to say such things. Of course, the world may have conspired against us again, but there are too many conspiracys, and people sense something else in their own skin. András Horváth, my MSZP colleague Gergely Bárándy, was also there before about the NAV - a thousand billion-dollar charge, which resulted in what? András Horváth was charged with criminal charges against him. This is so Hungarian and so outrageous by the people that perhaps the Members of Parliament, at least their pro-government members in the ivory tower, may not even perceive it. I would also like to remind the D.A. and the Attorney General that we do not have to wait for reports. So, the prosecutor's office can also act on its own initiative if my legal knowledge in this area is adequate, so it is not subject to a complaint if, by the way, it detects any evidence of a criminal offence or any proceedings. I am also saying this because we have seen it recently, and this is not only an opposition perception, but also a confirmed, data-based fact that, in the case of government representatives, they have more legal assets, real estate, tangible assets, vehicles than their legal income. It's unthinkable. How can it be... and these confessed properties in their own names. We don't even talk about it... - of course, these things turn out that, say, someone buys property for their 10-year-old child for 70 million, and when that comes out, they don't deny it, and they wouldn't have come out of the statement of property, it's also a criticism of the statements of property and the declaration of assets system, but they also come out; and in this case, let's say, the prosecution doesn't feel that the highest level should be immediately, let's say, reported and investigated by the chief prosecutor. I would add that if anyone in connection with a Member of Parliament were to assume that what is in his name is greater than his legal income - and how much more could possibly be owned by some Members or state leaders through stroms - the minimum would be that the prosecutor's office would take these steps immediately. Well, that may have happened, but I didn't see it in the report, and if Mr. Attorney General can comment on it, I thank you very much, but in any case, these are matters which are unprotected for both the people and the public. So, someone can't have more assets than his legal income, or it's quite clear that he comes from black income and, above all, from corruption money. The old saying to the D.A.'s office is that it must not only be fair, but also appear to be fair. It must not only be independent, it must also be seen as independent. This must also be shown to people and made believable. I have to say that the balance of the last 25 years is that until a leading politician is involved in serious corruption proceedings, people will not believe it. This would mean that there is no corruption in Hungary, there is no abuse in Hungary. We can't talk about this, and I'm going to point out some of the data on why I think this is happening. But that doesn't mean, I stress, and here I would also like to draw attention to the false war of Fidesz and MSZP, because the MSZP is outraged that Fidesz is pointing back for the last eight years and vice verse, doesn't mean that in both camps, in the time of the Fidesz governments or the MSZP governments, there couldn't have been the same corruption crimes, just as well, abuse. So you're not-or claim is possible only; it may have happened in both ages, and I'm about to give you some figures on why. But first, allow me to mention some examples in neighboring countries. Even in the Central and Eastern European bloc in Eastern Europe, we find that while even prime ministers and former prime ministers are imprisoned for corruption crimes, serious penalties are imposed, there has been no sign of this in Hungary, as I said. [[9.40]] I could mention the Czech example; but perhaps a better example could be Slovenia, where the former Prime Minister may have recently gone to prison; or even Croatia, where Prime Minister Ivo Sanader has eight years... [[Dr. András Schiffer: And the Mayor of Zagreb.]] And the mayor of Zagreb has indeed been prosecuted, but in the case of Ivo Sanader, the former Prime Minister has a final decision on eight years in prison. Talking to our fellow Members from Croatia, because I asked them the question in international forums - the relationship between them is there, so the question arose - how can you be such a lucky country that you are so far ahead of Hungary in the fight against corruption, they said that there was a really independent prosecutor's office, really subordinate to the Parliament, a prosecutor's office called USKOK, which started to work, and even started investigating the Prime Minister in office, and it turned out that they were very badly corrupted. And not only the Prime Minister or the mayor of Zagreb, but the Croatians said that they started and closed proceedings against about 300 leading politicians, otherwise mixed against pro-government and opposition politicians. And you know what's interesting? It was also very clear to the public, and it was a kind of public satisfaction that the evidence in these cases, as far as it knew, was put to the public, and it was quite clear that those who had been brought into the proceedings or were finally decided upon, were rightly and deserved to be punished. And it wasn't pointing fingers at each other, it was everyone's pleasure to finally get clean. By the way, the picantria of the case is that in the bribery of Ivo Sanader, in the case of the briber Hungarian party, the Hungarian prosecutor's office thought that nothing had happened and that the whole matter was completely clean. Croats are talking about 10 million euros, and according to the Hungarian prosecutor's office it was perfectly fine. I would add, from the Croatian authorities, that there is even publicly evidence, I do not know whether it is in the press, but it has been presented, and based on the information, video recording and other serious technical evidence are available to support the accusations. Obviously, Ivo Sanader didn't get eight years as a joke. It is hard to imagine that in Hungary or in the case of fibres leading to Hungary, the prosecutor's office was able to close this by a quick investigation. This is hard for the public to believe, too, because then, I repeat, an innocent man is in prison in Croatia, and no one else has said that, not even in Croatia. We are reprimanding the prosecution, and not only the current prosecutor's office, we can talk about the past 25 years many times, but, as far as the socialist era is concerned, the current prosecutor's office is also to be held accountable, let us say strongly, and we often feel that its sabotage is being sabotaged. Why do we think that? Although here my MSZP fellow Member, whom I very much disagree with in this respect, said that there were conceptual procedures in place, and I think that these procedures are not by accident or very suspicious that they have been executed with such serious procedural errors, so that they actually embezzled, nothing happens, as if someone did not want to go through with the real accountability. I do not think that Hungarian prosecutors are not professionally high enough to make mistakes like those made in these cases. I wouldn't repeat what Gergely Bárándy said, she obviously said these things from a different perspective, but I don't think it's possible to make such fundamental investigative procedural errors. Or if it is, and the prosecution wanted to be held accountable, but the professional competence of the prosecuting prosecutors was really inadequate, and therefore the prosecution in these cases will be about half of the national average, then there should be prosecutions within the D.A.'s office. We didn't hear any news about that either, but of course it might have happened, but it didn't get to us. As far as the costs and the budget are concerned, the prosecution's budget has increased by more than HUF 10 billion since 2009, but we do not see this in efficiency or in the fight against corruption, i.e. we do not see the result that this plus HUF 10 billion meant. I promised you one more piece of data on the scale of corruption. It is often quoted and published in the Hungarian press - the Tax Justice Network organization, which cannot be accused of right-wing bias, is a serious international organization - in which they said that they do not only produce statements regarding the money saved in the offshore direction in relation to Hungary, that we can talk about about about 250 billion dollars since the regime change, which went off-shore, only in funds. Real estate, yachts, luxury cars, lifestyles are not included, and we're talking about conservative estimates. This is also two and a half times the Hungarian government debt, the current government debt. Where did this money go? And I'm gonna have to address this to every Attorney General in the last 25 years, and the political set and everyone who should have caught up with this. We are saying that people don't care who took this money, they don't care who gets it back - and they care more - but they see that nothing is happening, and even nominal accountability hasn't happened. As long as this is the case, and as long as there is no progress, the whole system, the responsibility of the last 25 years, is joint and several, as well as the prosecution. In fact, the D.A.'s office is exponential, because they're the ones who should be the top fighters in this fight. 250 billion dollars, and we're talking about a cautious estimate. In Europe, however, it is unique to steal so much money from a country. The English gentleman who made the survey said that it was an unparalleled Hungarian record to make so much money... [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Hungary performs better!]] You are doing better - but so are you, fellow Members of the MSZP! They're right that the Fidest is surrounded by the shadow of the dog or dimmed in it, but unfortunately, it's a universal responsibility in this case. I also very much agree with what has been said about the fact that, in the case of classified information, we can see that, as long as Fidesz close-up newspapers are leaked, or even Fidesz Members of Parliament - because they have done so - there will be no proceedings. We can't press charges for the law that was otherwise changed by two thirds in 2009, only the secret administrator can file a complaint, let's say, in the case of an investigation, the prosecutor's office. The Attorney General may be able to report how many cases have been investigated in connection with the misuse of classified information. We're sorry that there's too much for the prosecution and the investigating authority to figure out the number of suspended investigations, which means they won't find the unsub. Let us be absolutely clear: the elimination of investigations may also indicate that they are not being carried out effectively enough - not only by the prosecution - by the investigating authorities, such as the police, for their work. And the data - and I see this in the report - is that a quarter of the decisions that have been filed with the complaint, which have ended the investigation, are being held by the prosecutor; this might be a pleasure to have a control over the police. But then why did they take away the possibility of a complaint in public financial abuse from us, Members of Parliament - again not the prosecutor's office? So if we Members of Parliament feel that public money is being stolen somewhere, we will make a complaint, the police will reject it or terminate the investigation with the most absurd, extreme justifications - I will not quote, though I could; unfortunately, almost all our complaints have happened after two and a half months of investigation - and we cannot challenge it with a complaint, while the national statistics are that a quarter of the complaints would otherwise be dealt with by the prosecution. This is also an absurd situation. And yet another painful point is the crimes affecting people's everyday lives. Because what we can see is that corruption is not something the prosecution can do - but then what does it do about crimes affecting people's everyday lives? I quote Tibor Ibolya, Chief Prosecutor of Budapest, because he is a dominant man within the prosecution's organization, in the Pesti Lawyer's newspaper, his statement:. If a person enters the police in most major cities in Western Europe by stealing his bicycle worth HUF 200,000, he can hardly count on anything but sympathetic glances, where it is natural for the authorities to concentrate their strength on public security, serious threats, and for minor acts, they will not initiate proceedings if it is clearly not expected to be a result. They don't waste taxpayers' money on that kind of stuff. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[9.50]] I thought I couldn't see well when I read Tibor Violet's words. So the trend, the European trend, is that if you go to the police in the West, say, Germany, that your 200 thousand forints bike was stolen, you're laughing at it with a little bit of exaggeration? It says in this statement: they do not take it seriously, nor do they initiate proceedings. Well, don't let the D.A. run around here. I would ask Mr. Attorney General to influence the prosecutor's organizational system so that this is not the trend, especially because I have information that this is not true. Let's say if someone's bike or property worth 200,000 forints was stolen in Austria, the police wouldn't send him home to be more careful, dear Uncle Hans, we don't care about that. So, on the one hand, I find the statement not true. But even if it were true, at least the Hungarian prosecution would have to deal with larger-scale cases, and I explained earlier that it does not do that very much. Well, yes, you can. In some cases, if, for example, a cell phone is stolen at Rachel Orbán's wedding, DNA testing will come right away, and the National Bureau of Investigation's Department of Life Protection will start investigating. Well, that's what really pushes up the pump in people if I'm gonna say it pestiely. In addition, experts told me in the press, I read it myself, and it's accessible to everyone that it's not even legally justified that a phone theft case requires DNA testing, millions of dollars to be spent, and the Department of Life Protection continues to investigate. In other cases, we have heard from Tibor Ibolya that in fact it is not necessary to know if someone is stealing something in less than 200,000 forints. Can't we just feel the double standard? That's the problem. People accept many things in this country, but double standards are the least. And just as the socialists have easily failed in this process, the Fidesz can reach the wind. So that could be a word of caution and warning to the Fidesz Members of Parliament, or even to the prosecutor's organization, so that they don't operate according to double standards. The European Public Prosecutor's Office's support has been mentioned by the Attorney General. I am embarrassed here because, as I understand it, even after the National Assembly, the Hungarian Parliament, said that it violates Hungary's autonomy, independence and goes beyond the European Union law, the establishment of such an organisation in the basic treaties, in the spirit of subsidiarity. I'm asking you to make that clear. If the Parliament had taken a decision, in my opinion, quite rightly, because in the form in which they wanted to set up the European Public Prosecutor's Office, it could have given rise to abuse, and it would have been an intervention in the internal affairs of individual countries, I think it would be appropriate if the Attorney General and the Public Prosecutor's Office were both in line with the opinion adopted and developed by the Parliament, otherwise also by the Fidesz majority. I know that this process, the conciliation started earlier than the Parliament has decided, but in the future I think it would be good if Parliament's decision were to govern the prosecution. And in the end, one or two painful points where we missed the prosecution's procedure. It's a matter of foreign exchange loans, in addition to several other cases. We believe that the D.A. should have examined the process that we consider to be a fraud on the part of the banks. For if the banks hadn't actually made available currency and no one had ever examined it before, Fidesz politicians, MPs and state leaders didn't want to investigate it either, but the prosecutors would have had to; so if banks hadn't made available currency for these transactions, which can be proven in most cases not, then it seems to me that the Btk. the facts of fraud have been implemented. After all, they were mistaken and mistaken not only for their clients, but also for the Parliament and everyone who called them to account and maintained their claim. On the basis of the statistics of the Hungarian National Bank, one fifth of the amount of foreign currency loans that were granted was entered into the country. I don't want to go deeper, we'll do that in the future. The point is that XX. The end of the century, but rather the 21st century. I consider this whole process to be the biggest fraud in the early 20th century - we hope that it will not be bigger, of course, it may be overwritten by history - but that the prosecution has not had any reaction to this, I do not consider it acceptable. In other countries, this has happened. In other countries, the Public Prosecutor's Office has also acted on foreign exchange loans or fraudulently issued foreign currency loans. We hear from the profession that, in relation to construction reports and economic reports, the police, as well as the prosecutor's office, have an inadequate expertise in these matters. This must also be said here, at the Parliament meeting, in your report, we can also address it to the police, to the prosecution, but the prosecution is a superior body. In the case of more serious economic crimes, I would like not only to think of the political one, or, in this case, not the political one, to be effective, appropriate, competent and fast, but, well, here the fast one may be too high a demand, but the circumstances of an effective and competent investigation should be created. Especially if that's how much budget support has been raised in the prosecution's case. Because people would like those fraudulent entrepreneurs who continue to commit these frauds not to receive a sham in so many cases, and then continue to cheat in different ways, but to punish them effectively. This would also be the main expression of the expectations of the whitening of the economy. Mr. President. Mr. Attorney General. Because of these concerns, we cannot support the prosecution's report. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-10-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr András Schiffer, Head of the Group, who is also speaking from here on the platform. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2014-12-10-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, First of all, we really need to talk about the fact that there are five years of reports before this House, and it doesn't matter how many parliamentary elections have been held since then, and how many parliamentary majoritys or housekeepers are responsible, how many main prosecutors are responsible, it is still the downgrading of Parliament's supervisory role. You, Mr. Attorney General, last week at an academic meeting told me that you remembered that you had reported on the prosecution's activities two times before the National Assembly. You, who had been the Attorney General for six years before the current term, and on December 14th, so in a few days, you'll have four years to be the Attorney General again. The problem is wider, as in recent weeks, the LMP alone has been the parliamentary party that has protested that Parliament is trying to make a lot of reports disappear from the publicity of the plenary session. However, in the case of the various public authorities, public bodies or bodies established by Parliament, the public plenary report is through which these bodies and bodies are accountable to the public. Obviously, it's not just the Attorney General, it's not just the prosecutor's organization, I can mention the Hungarian Competition Authority and a few more, the various media organizations. Unfortunately for them, apart from the LMP, the parliamentary parties agreed that there was no need for a plenary session, a large public accountability. And in the case of the prosecutor's office, this situation is critical because, while there is a public policy area, criminal policy, which is most influenced not by the current government in the current constitutional line-up, but by the prosecutor's organisation, this public policy area is virtually unaccountable to Parliament and thus to voters. Of course, I myself would like to know the answer of Mr. Attorney General - that, if you keep such an accurate account, you are quite right, how many times you have reported to the public of Parliament about the work of the prosecutor's organisation during its long operation - that he himself has, by the way, taken an initiative towards the various Speakers, regardless of the official submission of the report, that he would otherwise like to make this report in recent years. [[10.00]] Given that the public-law role of the Public Prosecutor's Office has fundamentally changed over the long term, it is necessary to mention the changed public-law environment and the anomalies that the changed public-law environment leads to, how the new public-law role of the Public Prosecutor's Office served the power interests of Fidesz. First of all, I would like to point out that it is possible that the accountability of the prosecutor's organisation would be better served if the prosecutor's office were otherwise subordinate to the government, as in other countries. The fact is that under the new Law on the Status of Prosecutor, the Attorney General will continue to exercise his mandate after the end of the term of office if one third of the Members of Parliament plus one person block the election of the new Attorney General. So Fidesz played smartly after 2010-11 because he placed perpetuum mobiles in various public-law positions, so Fidesz is in power even if it is no longer in Fidesz power. This situation raises fundamental legitimacy problems, so a parliamentary minority can block not only the main prosecutor, but several other basic public-law positions until the end of time. But it is also a problem that our fellow Member Bárándy has already said that the institution of interpellation has ceased, and I have a debate here with Mr Attorney General, because as long as the prosecutor's organisation holds a significant part of criminal policy as a public policy area, and until there is no other more effective way of accountability, even the reports are kept at their convenience by the various public bodies, the interpellation is almost the only way that Hungarians, through Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, can effectively report the main prosecutor, and through the main prosecutor's organisation. The problem is also that the new Law on the Status of Prosecutor 25. Pursuant to Article 4 (1) of the General Prosecutor's Office, the appointment of a Head of the General Prosecutor's Office shall be for an indeterminate period and may be revoked at any time without justification. This means that, at virtually any time, for whatever reason, the mandate of the heads of prosecutors may be revoked by the Attorney General. This poses serious risks for an organisation that is already difficult to account for, but with significant functions. I would also like to mention that we are also concerned that the immunity of prosecutors is too broad, so it does not only concern actions related to the fulfilment of the task of prosecutor. I would like to point out that, in the case of Members of Parliament, the LMP also criticises this broad area of immunity and its broad approach. In our view, immunity is granted to the various public-law actors, whether they are Members of Parliament or Prosecutors, only in the area where this public-law mandate is otherwise performed. Too wide an immunity can easily lead to corruption. In addition, there is a problem with Article 34 of the Public Prosecutor's Law. In accordance with Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure, the powers of the prosecutor to collect data are also very wide. However, apart from the problems arising from the public-law environment, any unpleasant, but I am forced to talk about non-law anomalies that make the impartiality of the prosecutor's organisation easily questionable. I do not wish to go into the tabloid game of when Mr. Attorney General was a candidate for the Fidesz and other small terms. Here's what I'd like to ask you with all due respect. If a person is elected by Parliament as the country's main prosecutor, he represents this organization with each public appearance, even when he is in a football match. No matter what the reality is, in today's politics, in many cases appearances around the world create reality themselves. Regardless of how true the accusations that have been made and which today have been worth the prosecution's organization are, that it is too loyal to the largest governing party, no matter how well they are founded or not, the Attorney General must not create any appearances that would, for good reason, motivate citizens to believe that they are not an independent, impartial organization. With great respect, I am obliged to say this about this place because it is not merely about Peter Polt's personal judgment. The point is that when the Hungarian citizens of different party positions see the Attorney General in a football match with the Prime Minister in a box, this is an extremely bad message. This does not underline the fact that, by the way, the Attorney General has the best professional conviction to do the work, even if that is the case. And I'm asking you very nicely to be careful, Mr. Attorney General, as are all public-law dignitaries and public-law actors, of appearances that are very easy to create reality themselves. It is also not good for the confidence in the prosecutor's organisation that while there is a law that gives the attorney general the task of initiating laws, in recent years we have seen that perhaps the attorney general has not once - I have not really seen this in the report - initiated a law, but the more often we have heard it in the shower news, our fellow Member Bárándy mentioned something like that, in certain laws, the representative of the government still has to consult the prosecutor. How's that? I think that in order to have the confidence in the D.A.'s organization, we need everyone to play clean cards. The Attorney General has legal authority to initiate laws. That's okay. If the Attorney General thinks he wants to initiate a new law on criminal proceedings, do so, he has the right, and that's perfectly all right. However, it is not fair that the Hungarian government is presenting a law, or there is faction government, and our brilliant fellow Members, especially Imre Vas, are at the forefront during a weekend, say, collaborating a criminal code or a criminal law law. [[Deterioration from the benches of MSZP and Jobbik.]] And then, at the first stop, there's a sign of obstruction that he, as an independent Member of Parliament with a free mandate, still has to consult the Attorney General or the Public Prosecutor's Office. This isn't working. If anyone in this country should, most importantly, comply with the procedural rules laid down by the Fundamental Law and the applicable legal status laws. There is no place for the prosecution to take laws out of the background and in the background by informal means. It is possible to come here, submit laws, argue for it, exercise the right to speak if necessary; I note that this is not apparent from the report how many cases there were when the National Assembly negotiated a law on matters concerning the fundamental role of the prosecution, and the Supreme Prosecutor presented his position. That's a possibility for the Attorney General. I would very much like to ask the Attorney General to use these public responsibilities for citizens. Thirdly, which, I must say, is also not good for trusting the D.A.'s office, it's a matter of leaks. I indicate that the LMP is in the process of requesting information of general interest to the Atlaszo.hu, as atlatso.hu wrote a few weeks ago, there is an internal investigation and an internal report has been made on how the various leaks have taken place. That's what we're all curious about. I would very much advocate, even on the initiative of the Prosecutor's Office, the implementation of a law - this is an old debt to Hungary, the Hungarian Parliament - specifically on the publicity of justice, the law governing when, how, when, how, the judicial authorities or the prosecutor's organisations can inform Hungarian people about pending cases. This is perfectly fine, and I think that this is a great debt to the Hungarian Parliament. There's one thing that doesn't happen when we're smearing, the various official agencies are wandering around in the puddle, and the person you're trying to dribble some information to is being dribbled by a judicial body. This isn't working! [[10.10]] I would ask Mr Attorney General very nicely to explain what has already been suggested here by my fellow opposition Members, how it can be that, in certain cases, certain press products have information that cannot otherwise be placed there, that they cannot be legally placed there, and that they can only be obtained from the prosecutor's organisation. I'm not talking about information that could have been avoided by a defense attorney. So here we have news that the defense attorneys didn't have or couldn't otherwise have access to, and this is extremely worrying. I would like there to be a law on the publicity of justice, and from now on it should not be that one or another press product, who knows how it is selected for certain confidential information; I would like to note that, in this way, the media market has an unfair advantage compared to other portals, newspapers, television channels, but should have legal order as to how, when, how, whether the prosecutor's organisation or the court can inform on ongoing matters. I could also mention the fact that, for example, when the Magyar Nemzet publishes an article in the Simon case, he refers to the report of a prisoner agent. I suppose we can agree that the defense attorney would hardly refer to the prisoner agent, since the defense attorney doesn't really know who the prisoner agent is. The Central Investigator's Attorney General has informed us that, in all circumstances, he will take the necessary and legal steps and will inform the public of the outcome of this. Good. Where are these informations? Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, I would like to go through four points, which, by the way, concerns our specific criticisms. One is the conflict between the results of the prosecution and the legal protection function, and one is the question of prior arrests, one is anti-corruption, and one is the performance of the public interest protection task, and one is the lack of care. The thing is, as weird as it is, I'm concerned about the fact that the prosecution is well over 90 percent, given the fact that Be is currently in force. originally, he wanted to place the focus of the evidence for the trial, which left a lot of it. This basically means that the defense has very little chance of investigating the facts and finding guilt. The indictment of more than 90 percent is against the relevance of the indictments to the investigative authority's proposals, and in 2013, together with the few thousand cases brought over, 122 643 cases had to be decided on, so many proposals were made. Only 50.5 percent of this led to a result, which is the proportion of the prosecution's charges. That's interesting because in the current system, the prosecutor is also in charge of the investigation, he has the right to order, unless he investigates himself. The D.A.'s supervision seems to be extremely weak. The biggest problem, however, is the change in the rules on the fundamental tasks of the prosecution, which is reflected in practice. The 2009 report also refers to Article 51 of the Constitution at that time. Article 5a, according to which the Public Prosecutor's Office ensures the protection of the rights of natural persons, legal persons and entities without legal personality, the consistent persecution of all acts which violate or threaten constitutional order, the security and independence of the country. The current Fundamental Law no longer contains such a rule. Of course, it is possible to argue about the desirable role of the prosecutor's office, but it is a fact that the specific legislation still describes the powers that are clearly intended for legal protection. And at this point, we would like to ask Mr. Attorney General another question, which is not in the report. In particular, the constitutional majority deprived not only the Hungarian people, but also the Members of Parliament, of the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court with ex post norm control as a last refuge. The Attorney General has that kind of authority. I'm asking you, under the legal protection function of the Attorney General, how many times have you initiated ex post standard control since 2011. It is worrying and also typical that the prosecution considers that the increase in the imposition of life sentences is the result. I would like to give an example of how embezzlement of the legal protection function and the imposition of a life sentence are related. On 28 February 2014, the Metropolitan Court sentenced three of the seven defendants to life imprisonment, one of which cannot be granted conditional leave, in a judgment of the Metropolitan Court which is not yet final. The strict is exemplary, fitting into the concept mentioned. In this regard, the President of the Chamber acting at the Metropolitan Court said literally the following, after the defendants objected to the absence of important rescue evidence from the proceedings. I quote:, I would like to inform you that if the prosecutor does not submit any evidence or obtain any data on rescue circumstances, because other data support their version or their version, there is no problem in the world. But compared to that, the Be. 28. The prosecutor, the prosecutor, has a duty to take into account both the circumstances which are incriminating and rescuing the defendant and the circumstances which undermine and alleviate criminal liability at all stages of the proceedings. This is how a positive increase in the number of life imprisonments emerges, resulting in nearly a hundred percent indictment, despite all previous guidelines of the Constitutional Court. Dear Parliament, As early as the beginning of the 2010-14 cycle, many opposition representatives indicated that the relationship between the institution of pre-trial detentions with the prosecution - I note - and the courts too, for example, I am thinking of the autumn 2006 judicial decisions - is of considerable concern. Hungary exceeds the European average in proportion to those in detention without a final judgment. Preliminary detention in Hungary is almost an advanced punishment. There are systemic problems, which are also indicated by the growing in Strasbourg. In the face of common sense, pre-trial detention is used in Hungary today as an advance punishment, not against the threat of escape or the prevention of proof. Technically, the prosecution has a legal institution, and the judges often give the prosecutor's motions an unsavory argument, even if they say it unheard of from the other side for years, that there may not be an escape risk for someone who applied to the police themselves when he learned that he was wanted. And here we are at the most neural point, the role of the prosecution in anti-corruption action. Unlike my fellow Member, Barondy, I do not think that the state cannot function without corruption. I would very much like that the state in Hungary, as opposed to the last 25 years, should not be a captured state. We LMPs would very much like the state not to be controlled by the rich few. In this, however, there is a need for a prosecutor who, by the way, represents the interests of the people, representing the interests of the poor few. We listened here in the debate to the fact that there was no political corruption in Hungary before 2010, and we could also hear that there was no corruption after 2010. Obviously, there is a mistake in the equipment of other countries, in Croatia, where they take the Prime Minister and the Mayor on a driver's belt, the Portuguese have the problem where the Prime Minister is arrested at the airport, the Germans, where they are prosecuting the President of the Republic in office, or the Czechs, and I can go on to list the European examples where the prosecutor's organisation or the appropriate judicial investigation body hits the heads. This cannot happen in Hungary. We can think that probably because corruption in Hungary has not ceased, it has never been. I think that there is no living person in this country who would believe this, but rather the assumption that Hungary is a country with no consequences. And that feeling in a lot of people, I'm willing to risk it being in millions of people because there are a lot of cases that people meet for years through TV or Internet news, and then they just sink without consequences while they're in close contact with politics. I ask you, where is the Key Price case, for example? Normal people in Hungary have lost track a long time ago, while we know precisely that for years after 2003, this has dominated the front pages, and how many party politicians this gentleman has been in contact with. I would also like to say that, in previous years, there have been a lot of cases written, for example, by the Internet press. In 2008, in 2009, I could mention the case of the renewal of the Margaret Bridge or the metro 4 case, and there was news that the financial people associated with the various parties were also involved in these matters. It's either true or it's not, but getting these news out in the open is definitely gonna require intelligence and investigation. [[10.20]] And so let's get to what I said to Mr. Attorney General on an immediate question, how is it that, in the traffic case, after there is a recording, no one wants to know what the server of that mayor is hiding, let's say, while András Horváth's computer was taken away, why is it that when the mayor of Szekszárd claims that he has received the applications and that he has this information, a year will pass by the time these taffists are even heard by the prosecutor's office. Where is this case at? But I could also mention the NAV scandal, where Mr Attorney General answered my fellow Member Gábor Vágó and I last spring in a very fair manner, telling me how serious crimes are being investigated, the deadline has passed on 12 November, and we still do not know more. Hungary is therefore considered a country without consequences. What the LMP suggested was, on the one hand, in the prosecutor's bill, that the prosecutor's duty should be to go after him as a watch dog, a guard dog, if there are corruption suspects in the press, for a crime-preventive purpose, if you like. There is nothing, or is not acceptable, to be heard from the predecessor of the Attorney General, the first Attorney General after the regime change in the early 1990s: in connection with one of the large privatisation scandals at that time, the microphone was pointed to Kálmán Györgyi, why there was no investigation, and he said that the prosecution had not received a complaint. The other popular response from the prosecutor's organisation in the last 25 years has been that he has no formal knowledge. That's not acceptable. If, for example, the Index airs out how different party money people have colluded, let's say, in connection with the reconstruction of the Margaret Bridge, it is the duty of a dog to go after the prosecutor's organization. Because even if it turns out that the information is not real, it is still the duty of the prosecutor's organization to protect the honour of parliament, of Hungarian politics. If, on the other hand, you do not give, God, whatever the truth is in this, it is also in the best interests of the prosecution and, above all, of the Hungarian tax-paying citizens to bring the truth to light, as is the case in other countries in Europe. At present, there are a lot of cases before 2010 in which we can't see clearly at all, and the country is up to its neck in corruption. Mr. Attorney General. The attorney general has the right to act, he has the right to speak in Parliament. Why doesn't the Attorney General say something when laws come before the House that are about one thing, the state market robbery? Why didn't the Attorney General initiate a law that was passed yesterday, of course, by the majority, which was submitted by the LMP, how to require politicians to carry out a mandatory wealth investigation? Why doesn't the Attorney General initiate the LMP proposal, also voted off by the Fidesz majority, to sweep the offshore knights out of the country, but mostly from the public money area? And, of course, it's inevitable that we speak of the disbarment case. There is a 2008 criminal cooperation agreement between Hungary and the United States of America. I would like to expect an answer - obviously also from the US Chief Prosecutor, but also from the Hungarian Attorney General - that six persons on behalf of the United States of America were told about the banned persons - were not named - whether, in the case of the six banned persons, specific criminal information, as set out in the 2008 Convention, was provided to the Hungarian authorities. We are waiting for this clear yes-no response, both from the Embassy of the United States of America and from the Hungarian Attorney General and the Hungarian Government. The Hungarian people do not see clearly until they are given an answer to what both parties are otherwise bound by a bilateral international agreement. The smearing that's been going on for two months is unacceptable. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the task of protecting the public interest. In the field of public interest protection, I would like to point out that if, in the case of the foreign exchange crisis, the prosecution had exercised its right to act in court earlier, it would have been possible to end this story sooner and a number of families could have been saved from eviction. When it comes to the protection of the public interest, it is essential that I also warn the prosecutor's organisation that the 1995 LIII on the protection of the environment. Law also provides opportunities for the prosecutor's organisation. The investment that the government is preparing for, tragically with parliamentary approval for the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, poses a terrible risk to generations of future generations. Where's the D.A.'s office at this hour? Where is the prosecution's action and the public interest action at a time when, illegally hidden from people, they place inaccessible environmental risks on our offspring for generations? The prosecutor's organisation would have a public interest and environmental responsibility. And, of course, when it comes to the public interest, it is obviously necessary to mention the careful use of public funds here too, but I think that, of course, assistance must also be provided to the prosecution in this regard. For this reason, LMP specifically proposed two billion additional resources for the 2015 budget for the operation of the anti-corruption units of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I think that, in this case, the Attorney General could have acted proactively towards Parliament, regrettably did not do so, and this proposal was voted off by the Fidesz majority. Dear Parliament, It is important that the prosecutor's office is informed, and it is important that there should be an appearance around the prosecutor's office that there is no suspicion of political influence. But I would also like to say, Mr Attorney General, that, after the prosecutor's office has a licence for police measures, where appropriate, when there is doubt about the responsible functioning of the prosecutor's organisation, we also consider cases where, for example, the prosecutor's office has examined whether, when the police step out of a civil society organisation and take it, the head of the civil society organisation is in a car, this police action was, for example, necessary and proportionate. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] There is confidence in the D.A.'s office if the shadow of double standards cannot be cast on the prosecution's organization. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-12-10-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It would now be possible to make speeches or two-minute speeches by independent representatives, but since no one has applied in this genre, I am speaking to Mr Tamás Harangozó of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-10-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, First of all, allow me to follow you here in front of the publicity of Parliament. I must follow you, because in my immediate questions to the Prime Minister last week and a few weeks ago, I falsely stated that you were a Member of the Parliament of Fidesz. In my defense, it was a simple slip of the tongue, but it doesn't cover the truth. The reality is, on the other hand, that you were Fidesz's individual parliamentary candidate and list candidate, so in this capacity you are a party politician for the current governing parties, and this does not change the merits of the case. I have to follow you, too, because it is said that it is not true that in the 1980s you functioned as a first-time prosecutor for the leaders of the current governing parties, the Bibo-college students. I'm willing to accept that, and that's why I'm following you, Mr. Attorney General, you know, in this picture. [[With the Member's hand, he points to the picture on the cover of his opened notebook.]] I'm not the one standing at the inaugural meeting of the Fidesz election, and I'm not speaking in the presidential pulpit, Mr. Attorney General, you are. You do this with the current Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and József Szájer - I do not think we should talk about who else is in the picture, the other side - in the company of József Szájer, whose dear wife is sitting here today, and we will also hear your report, because she is the President of the National Court Office. How small is this country, isn't it, Mr. Attorney General? In addition to all my critical remarks, I would like to make it clear that, in our view - and to confirm what Gergely Bárándy said - the vast majority of prosecutors do their work fairly, in accordance with her oath, not only in accordance with the letters of the law, but also in accordance with its spirit. [[10.30]] The results of the work carried out with honor and devotion are what we all read in the report submitted to Parliament, at least in the numbers. Therefore, we would like to express our thanks and appreciation for this work to these colleagues. At the same time, we cannot go without saying something here and now in addition to the shocking phenomenon, which is not accounted for in the reports submitted. In particular, the Supreme Prosecutor's Office and the Central Investigator's Attorney General's Office have a well-defined circle of prosecutors whose activities have nothing to do with the rule of law, constitutionality or legality, so that justice is no longer spoken of. They construct procedures, use tools and methods that we thought we would never hear again in Hungary after 1989. In the last century, the Hungarian people, in the grip of dictatorships with different ideological colors, have experienced several times what it is like to be ordered by the violence organisations and the prosecution. However, at the time of the change of regime in 89, regardless of political affiliation, everyone must have agreed that we do not want such a world. We do not want a world in which authorities serve the powers of political leaders rather than protecting citizens' rights, where political self-doubt does not govern procedures, where the state does not provide security for its citizens, but keeps them vulnerable and in fear. No one wanted such a world at the time of the change of regime, but some political leaders' desire for power and some prosecutors' activities in this direction created this world. You and your former friends and protégés have understood precisely in our opinion that, in essence, an organization operating on the principle of military hierarchy should only take the top and some of its key points. After that, the commanding organization can easily be put into the service of power interests. That is exactly what happened here, and the images before us show that they are not even hiding it. In the course of five years of prosecutorial work, we have to state that under your leadership, the D.A.'s office functions as hardly a covert party policy tool. This has two very clear forms of expression. One is the criminalisation of political opponents, the other is the cover-up of the affairs of local kings, orange oligarchs, the institutionalized systems of corruption, the untouchableness of mutyi in Hungary. As far as criminalising the political opposition is concerned, only the blind cannot see how these prosecutors intervened in electoral campaigns. In 2010, before and during the election campaign, the people were bullied with nokis box and whiskey box stories. Now it turns out that these stories were based on confessions based on intimidation and false promises. In elections, our mayor was tried to deliver the subpoena at the pre-election campaign event a few days before the election. After that, he was acquitted by the court. Most of the alleged major corruption cases, which you have so fondly said, either closed with acquittal, or in the midst of agonizing efforts, are still in progress today, hardly praising the prosecution's work, or we have to start again after five years. Before the 2014 elections, the campaign mode was rebooted. As memorable, the current big unveiling was a matter of the Portik-Laborc meetings, which was used to discredit the entire left. Once again, the prosecutor's office was a reliable partner in the service of pro-government propaganda. In February 2013, the Central Investigator's Attorney General brought proceedings against Sándor Laborc on the grounds of suspicion of abetting crimes. For more than a year, nothing was investigated, and after the parliamentary and European Parliament elections, the investigation was terminated in the absence of a crime, not even indicted. I took part in the work of the parliamentary fact-finding subcommittee, Mr. Attorney General, I know the case documents. I know that, and after a day of thorough reading, the Central Detective Attorney General had to know that there was no crime involved in this case. Finally, even the pro-government members of the National Security Committee reached this conclusion at the end of the investigation. The prosecution prosecutors had to be aware all along that they were assisting in a dirty political discrediting operation, but of course, we cannot read about it in the 2013 report by the Attorney General. Not to mention, ladies and gentlemen, while we are here in Parliament, the fact-finding work of the National Security Committee has been carried out in parallel with the prosecution's investigation. This did not disturb anyone there, neither the prosecution nor the majority of Parliament's party to the government, but you have, last year, initiated a committee of inquiry and all other similar committees of inquiry after the announcement of VAT fraud on the grounds that the prosecution is otherwise conducting investigative activities, so Parliament cannot be investigated. But they were not idle in the finale of electoral campaigns either, before the 6 April elections the proceedings against Gábor Simon were broadcast almost online, in May Béla Kovács's better-looking EP representative had his spy background in the spotlight, and this autumn our fellow Member Dezső, the former deputy mayor of one of the most successful socialist self-government, was suspected in the election campaign. You really don't feel it, Mr. Attorney General, that horse's foot is hanging out? Do you think there's a reasonable person in this country who wouldn't see what's going on? While these cases are all over the press and those right-wing media have shockingly up-to-date information, interestingly, power is never told about embarrassing matters on the basis of the interests of the procedure. It is certainly because, in these cases, the anointed prosecutors are working not to investigate matters but to cover them up. Trafic dog might be one of the best examples of that. There is hardly any doubt that this is one of the biggest corruption cases in recent decades, thousands of people and families who have been damaged, deprived of their livelihood, who can be determined by name, who receive an undue advantage, party meetings, where openly, politically, local small kings have decided on the fate of the lost business opportunities and a courageous former Fidesz representative who has made all this evidence public with a recording. Let's see a miracle, the prosecution doesn't report on this case every day, this is what the spokespersons are silent about, and the questions raised by the Members of Parliament remain unanswered. In fact, the Attorney General's 2013 report does not devote a sentence, let alone to one of the biggest corruption scandals of the year, but probably one of the decades, even though this story might have deserved to have been mentioned behind the paragraph that exposed the corrupt NAV chief. Of course, only laymen who do not know our country can ask how this is possible. Those who know Hungarian reality know the answer precisely: because they do not even seek to investigate matters in substance. All we know, for example, is that the representative who made the recording public was sent for questioning, while the hearing of the former mayor of Szekszárd who had been compromised on the tape, no more than a search for a house or any other procedural action, was finally heard. Finally, we can be glad that the representative who made the recording public will not be brought to justice. Yes, Mr Attorney General, I have told you before in the previous term here, within the walls of Parliament, we continue to maintain this opinion, in these political matters, it seems that you are acting not as the general prosecutor of Hungary, but as the corporate prosecutor of Fidesz. I would recommend to the attention of my fellow Members that it is not just the largest opposition party that accuses the prosecution of political bias. In recent years, a number of court judgments have been made, which say the same with subtle or less subtle criticism, but in some cases with harsh honesty. My fellow Member, Barándy, has already quoted these judgments literally, and I am not going to do them again. However, let me read a quote, either here in Parliament or in public, addressed to those who are watching these speeches, which gives us an emotional insight into how these accusations have been dealt with. I will now quote from a court trial protocol, the court judgment of which has already been quoted by my fellow Member, Barándy: I must admit that between 23 June and 19 November 2010, I would have admitted a number of times anything I didn't do, even that I was a pedophile and child killer. I remembered to make a false confession on 23 June at the Fast Carriage Street detention center on 24 July on my wedding anniversary, on 4 August, on my daughter's birthday, in September, when I learned that my company had been charged with liquidation, and I remembered every morning and every noon and every night to do anything for me, and I would definitely sign it, and I remembered most when two officers struck me until my ears started to bleed, just to know where my place was and what I should do. But because I knew the truth was on my side, that's why I didn't speak. But now I'm speaking in court because I believe in the independence of the board. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Shame!]] [[10.40]] In a real rule of law, the Attorney General would remove prosecutors involved in the preparation of abusive, conceptual proceedings after one such scandal, or, if he was unable to do so, would resign out of honor and honor, Mr. Attorney General. However, scandals here, prosecutorial humiliating court sentences there, you will remain a chief prosecutor until the end of your career if that two-thirds majority lasts. I won't argue with you. You've worked hard for this support. But let me ask you a personal question, Mr. Attorney General, how do you think this ends? How long do you think this is gonna last? Are you so sure that sooner or later none of the two-thirds majority of Fidesz Members will have a conscience? It's already happened in Szekszárd's traff case. You do realize, Mr Attorney General, that under this electoral procedural law, which was passed by Fidesz and thanks to which these elections were won by two-thirds, only the latest election result in Újpest, if repeated in the next elections, will be the current opposition in two-thirds majority, Mr Attorney General, and then not only in the prosecutor's office, but even in the prosecution's system, these questions may arise. I would like to make it very clear that, in our view, involvement in procedures of a conceptual nature cannot go without consequences. Therefore, today, we are re-submitting our proposal to amend the Criminal Code, which makes it possible for us to be held accountable, not only today, not only under this government - in our view and according to our creed - but, regardless of the political side and the parliamentary majority, there must always be a threat of prosecution, investigative authority, political means and conceptual procedures, that no one in this country can ever use it, or if they dare to do so, it must have criminal consequences. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-12-10-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. There are two-minute speeches coming up. First I give the floor to Congressman István Józsa; he will be followed by Group Leader András Schiffer.
u2014-12-10-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Attorney General, In my two-minute comment, I would like to talk about the issue of leaks. I can't understand with reason why you, who is responsible for everything, don't realize that it's proper for the D.A.'s office to have these leaks undermining the authority of the D.A.'s office to an extraordinary extent and making it seem, not unfounded, that the D.A.'s office is not politically independent. When a case appears in the Magyar Hírlap before any public prosecutor's official statement is published, when public opinion starts working anonymously, that means that you have either an undercover person - something you should explore - or you will provide information in some way that you cannot do. Think - now I'm applying your conscience - with such false information, anyone can be destroyed. You are going to withdraw with unsubstantiated or poorly substantiated accusations, as said in Gergely Bárándy's keynote speech, to a family, and there is no such coincidence that the media is there at that time and there are excessive coercive measures. What can a woman be expected to do? That you're going to attack the police? What can be expected of pious old people? That they're resisting the measure? It's never happened before. You always take disproportionately serious measures, and somehow the media is always there by accident. Mr Attorney General, we ask that you investigate these cases and stop this irregular operation in order to restore the prosecution's judgment. Thank you.
u2014-12-10-18	Thank you very much. Mr. András Schiffer!
u2014-12-10-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would record - it is true, we have seen this four years ago - that LMP is practically the only faction in Parliament that consistently holds itself in order not to classify the work of investigative bodies in specific, ongoing criminal matters, and that Parliamentary Members do not have the right to do so. In the debate on the Curia's report, I will say that the Prime Minister and the leader of the Fidesz faction have, in many cases, violated this unwritten rule in recent years, and I would also like to say that in the case of non-accounting after 2002, it was the Fidesz people who were shouting after conceptual lawsuits. It is common in both cases that neither pre-2002 nor pre-2010 cases have actually been identified. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, What I would like to know is that the LMP has three anti-corruption proposals which, by the way, concern the powers of the prosecutor's organisation and the regulation of the prosecutor's organisation. I'm curious about your position and whether the Attorney General would be a partner in bringing them to law enforcement. One of the things I've already talked about is the type of watchdog function, that if fact-finding journalists print out specific cases, without a criminal complaint, the prosecutor's organisation, obviously with the right budget cover behind it, should have the task of investigating their reality in order to protect the public interest. Two, in cases of corruption, have the right to appeal to the prosecution. At the moment, when a person makes a complaint, makes a public announcement, the investigative bodies scrub these complaints so that the brave man, András Horváth, who took the liberty and reported what had happened - not even the Members of Parliament, of course. Thirdly, do you agree that in the case of criminal offences committed within the prosecutor's organisation, you should have special investigators, i.e. an institution independent of the prosecutor's organisation, which guarantees that crimes committed by God or prosecutors are subject to an impartial and independent investigation? Thank you very much.
u2014-12-10-20	Thank you very much. We will continue with the proper speeches. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mrs Márta Demeter. Here you go.
u2014-12-10-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Attorney General. Allow me to quote from the article published on 28 February 2013 by Népszabadság:.The Kaposvár Tribunal has acquitted 15 defendants of the proceedings, which were known as General Court. The judgment at first instance was a serious defeat to the prosecution, because the court was harshly critical of the misguided and unlawful methods of the prosecution. Several of the defendants claim that the prosecution blackmailed them into making a statement against socialist politicians, and then they'll get away with the punishment.-After the 2010 parliamentary election, János O., who was a Director General of the Ministry of Defence in 2009, and who previously admitted to bribery, changed his testimony and now claimed that he had passed on the benefit of the money to his superiors. After that, he gave incriminating testimony to several officers and civilians working in HM, who, without exception, denied their involvement in bribery. Despite this, the D.A. has accused 17 ministry employees, 14 of whom had no other evidence but his testimony. On account of the above, six months ago, the newspaper quoted said that the accusation of the General's trial appears to be collapsing, because John O. did not speak at the courthouse, and his testimony at the D.A.'s office turned out to be obtained by the investigating authority with a false promise. For John O., who was arrested in advance, was promised that if he confessed to his superiors by revealing new crimes, he would not be imprisoned. As a result, the general framed his companions. The President of the three-member military council who delivered the judgment gave a long explanation of the errors committed by the prosecution during the investigation, declaring the false, promised confession to be incompatible with the democratic rule of law. The judge harshly criticized the prosecutor's office for not trying to use any other method of proof, so they did not investigate where, when and how the alleged bribery took place, did not verify any bank money movements that might support the alleged transfer of money, did not carry out any property checks on the people who received the money, did not request the defendants' phone records. [[10.50]] What was completely incomprehensible to the judge was that the prosecution did not even try to use operational tools, such as wiretap, although this is one of the most fundamental methods in such cases. The judge assumed that the D.A.'s office might have avoided these techniques because you were not convinced that the prosecution was genuine, and that you only trusted that a man's forced testimony would be enough in the lawsuit. Although the judge didn't say so, it is also clear from his words that the charges of the General's trial were largely structured. By the way, 11 defendants who have stood up for his innocence have said this openly. According to them, the prosecutor repeated that they should incriminate the former socialist members of the government, and then they would be released. Since they didn't do that, they've been in custody for months. Some were not allowed to leave prison for more than a year, and some were beaten by prison guards, shouting that they knew what they were doing now; in this case there was also criminal proceedings. Please allow further quotes from a February 2014 Népszabadság article a year later:. The prime defendant declared before the court, threatened if he did not confess, then he is finished. According to Brig-Gen L, during his first interrogation, it was also said that the prosecutor would defile my past, completely destroy my present, my existence, and take away everything I have, but if I cooperate, they would make it possible for me to ease my severe sentence of about 10 years to seven years, or even five years. Other statements also showed that the prosecution specifically referred to the possibility of deprivation of liberty as a sanction to encourage suspects to admit alleged acts. However, according to what the defendants said, they went further, since the fact that some of the interviews could not be attended by a lawyer limited the rights of defence of the suspects. The investigation has undoubtedly taken on a conceptual character. Péter Zamecsnik, the legal representative of the prime defendant of the General's trial, said to this paper in the autumn of 2012. According to him, they first decided on the issue of guilt and then tried to find evidence to support the suspicion. The lawyer's professional position is clear, there have been a number of violations during the proceedings. The circumstances of the interrogations alone may raise the suspicion of forced interrogation, but Zamecsnik did not act until it was discovered that not only his own client, but many reported the case in the same way. Therefore, in March the Kaposvár Tribunal proposed that the two military prosecutors be excluded from the proceedings. Six out of the 16 defendants joined. But in the course of the investigation, they also made other serious mistakes. General O was first persuaded to make a confession, on which practically the entire charge was based by promising him impunity. This may be true in a bribery case if a person discovers abuses that the authorities have not yet learned about, but the suspect is supposed to have been informed about this, which means he said in the belief that he could avoid being held accountable. These are the quotes I wanted to give you from the press. I would like to stress, in any event, to Mr Attorney General, that in a real rule of law, the Attorney General would, after one such scandal, remove the prosecutors involved in the abuse, who are involved in the preparation of the conceptual proceedings, or, if he is unable to do so, resign them out of honour and honour. When will you do it, when will you resign? I would like to conclude my speech with a very important quote. I would like to quote from the answer given by the Attorney General to my colleague Tamás Harangozó's immediate question on 4 March 2013. The quote is as follows: I think that it is in the interests of all of us, essentially of society, that we should live without corruption. The D.A.'s office has served it, it serves it, and it will continue to serve it in the future. - That's what you said, Mr. Attorney General. So from now on, all I have left is one rhetorical question: whether the Supreme Prosecutor was wrong, wrong, and wrong, or whether the tens of thousands of people who demonstrate on the streets every day are wrong, because they see that systemic corruption is unexplored in Hungary. So who lost their sense of reality? Thank you for the floor.
u2014-12-10-22	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker was also Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély from the MSZP group. Here you go.
u2014-12-10-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Members, I will also join Congresswoman Márta Demeter, read articles on the BKV case, but first in a few sentences on how we stand on this matter. Tünde Handó, President of the National Court Office, decided on the transfer of the primary criminal case to Kecskemét. On this basis, the Court of Justice of Ibolya Had Nagy, and then the Kecskemét Tribunal, ruled that it was not competent in December 2013 and transferred the case to the Metropolitan Tribunal. The Curia then decided that the Kecskemét Tribunal should renegotiate the Hagyó trial. Witnesses have withdrawn their statements for unlawful prosecution pressure. I would like to start with 2012, on Thursday, September 20th, MTI announced that it claims to be innocent and spoke to the court on Thursday of the Kecskemét Tribunal as a conceptual, serious violation of the law. In the courtroom, the judge read the second-rate defendant's position in writing, saying he was innocent and requesting his acquittal on the two charges against him. He indicated that he was incomprehensible to the proceedings against him, which he considered to be conceptual, gravely illegal, and intended solely for political, human and material inability to do so. He said that during the prosecution procedure he was made aware that he could expect discounts if he made a statement against Gábor Demszky and Miklós Hagyó. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. October 9, 2012, next newspaper article: "I'm not a hero, all I wanted to do was go home. Zoltán Balogh said: defendant at the BKV trial on Tuesday. The former CEO, like his fellow defendants, reported that he had made his investigative statements under pressure and even said in the press - including the famous Nokia box - to avoid prison. Balogh withdrew all his previous statements. Zsolt Balogh, former Chief Executive Officer of BKV, who also claimed that he was wrongly accused by the D.A. as he charged him with charges in which he was not suspected. Balogh, who started the Nokia box scandal, is a fourth-rate defendant in this case. By his testimony, the day of today's trial at the Kecskemét Tribunal was preceded by great expectation because most of the accusations in the BKV case were based on his investigative statements and even repeated his incriminating statements in the right-wing media. That's how the Nokia box story got winged, among other things. Balogh and his attorney commented that the prosecution accused Zsolt Balogh of several counts that there were no suspects in them. Balogh predicted that he would not admit his guilt, that the BKV had not suffered any damage, that he had no adverse contracts and that he had no knowledge of them. [[11.00]] I wanted to go to jail like my colleagues. I only told the press so I wouldn't get arrested. He said, referring to his earlier statements to the Hungarian Nation and News TV, Balogh. The former head of the BKV recalled when he was interrogated by four detectives in the company of a single candidate. In his view, it is also apparent from the minutes that he is saying things that are incriminating to others without question and with hesitation. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] I'm not a hero. All I wanted was to go home. He explained the content of his statements and withdrew them. On the projector, he illustrated with images of how the prosecution accused him of simple sightings and other non-benefitful contracts approved by others. 22 January 2013, the following Article. At the end of the hearing of the defendants of the BKV criminal trial, the prosecution made observations at the Kecskemét Tribunal. Prosecutor János Homonnai defended himself for a long time primarily because of Jewishism and the drug use of the accused Éva H., although these charges were directed not to them but to the prison guards. In his memorable court statement, the former pressman of former Deputy Mayor Miklós Hagyó, the prime defendant of the trial, reported the circumstances of his prior arrest: they poured the trash into the middle of the cell to clean, Jewish. The D.A. has refused to prosecute, press charges, charges of humiliation. He noted that the defendants have the right to report the disadvantages they face, but that has nothing to do with proving what they've been through. In the statements of H. Éva, the charges of prison conditions, citing the '50s, were rejected on behalf of the D.A.'s office. As well as the fact that they would have been forced to interrogate, although, as the prosecutor added, such a proceeding is compelling, it can still be lived in a routine manner. The prosecutor also defended the Constitutional Judge Mary Stubborn. He said that, in the case of the defendants, some 30 judges made decisions on coercive measures, so to say that this is why they appointed Stubborn as Constitutional Judge is absurd. Homonnai did not say that it was Mary Sturdy who, in the case of several defendants, tightened up and maintained the more stringent coercion, even having several defendants returned to prison at a later stage of the investigation, months after their testimony. At the trial, the reading of the partially withdrawn investigative statements of Eve H. continued. He withdrew his statements which, after his arrest, he said, he had taken away from his family, subject to controlled questions, during forced interrogation. During the six months in advance, he said that the investigators asked him for incriminating statements on Hagyor and László Puch, but he could not answer their question in a well-founded and evidence-proclaimed manner, no matter how much he wanted to see his family again. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 2013. CHAPTER IV 23, MTI. Mr Miklós Hagyó found the majority of his complaints about the circumstances of his detention justified by the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg on Tuesday. In its judgment, the Court held that the conditions under which Hagyó was detained would be exhausted by Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The concept of inhumane treatment as described in Section 2 of this Article. In the case of his wife, however, the Hungarian authorities, in their judgment, went beyond what was necessary in a democratic society in order to protect the interests of the investigation in a democratic society by prohibiting both personal and telephone contact for the three months and by allowing Hagyó to carry out controlled correspondence with his wife. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I can repeat, Mr Prosecutor, that in a real rule of law, the Attorney General would, after one such scandal, remove the prosecutors involved in the preparation of the abusive, conceptual proceedings, or, if he is unable to do so, give up his resignation out of honor and honor. When do you do that? I would like to read one more article to the Attorney General, born yesterday on 9 December 2014. Not according to the court's plans for today's BKV trial in Kecskemét. In the second part of the hearing, it was found that the prosecution was preparing to complete the investigation into the new procedure of proof submitted last December for the aforementioned motion. According to the prosecutor, this is necessary in part because of the criticisms of witnesses, and in part because the prosecution has in the meantime been confronted with the fact that the research ordered a year ago cannot be complete. With new additions, formulas to be examined and detailed search terms, the prosecutor's office is preparing to reopen the investigation. In other words, the D.A.'s office has been searching for evidence for several times after the investigation ordered five and a half years ago, and three years after the trial began, Mr.András Kádár, defender of the primary defendant, drew attention to the prosecution's motion. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. All I can say is that if you listen to these articles, I think you'll have some thoughts for them, you'll have your own opinion, and I think that everyone, even the government representatives, has to think about what's going on in this country. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-10-24	Welcome, fellow Members. I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt for a two-minute comment.
u2014-12-10-25	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm a little upset about the fact that the MSZP is going to do the matinee-washing while both the fidesz and the MSZP set are up to their necks in these cases. I also found an article on the Internet, published a few days ago by Private Kopó Magazine, about the fact that Ernő Mesterházy, mentioned by you, is the owner of a relaxing complex consisting of five individual luxury villas that satisfy all needs. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] The villa is located on the island of Bali, Seminyak - I don't know if I pronounce it right, in which part of the villa I haven't been there before - in a resort paradise. The jewelry box was purchased by Mesterházy from an Italian businessman in 2009. The criminal portal was informed that the former lobbyist of the free democrats, who apparently had them, also bought land on the beautiful island. The article could be quoted for a long time. I didn't hear anyone deny that. I'd very much like to have them used by the D.A.'s office in their own proceedings. By the way, several former MSZP politicians from SZDSZ are also mentioned as enjoying the opportunities offered by the resort complex on the island of Bali. Photos are also attached. Hungarian man, or I might as well say that I see things like this only in pictures, we can't go there. So let's stop, let's not wash the sins of the MSZP-SZSZ government, which doesn't mean there were no abuses during the Fidesz administration. When his son, John Lazarus, buys a fork for 70 million, he should also examine the wealth of Peter Polt and the prosecution, or even of Antal Rogán, and the goods in his name. But speaking of Ernő Mesterházy, let us also consider this resort on the island of Bali and why the prosecution has not acted harder on these matters. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And why we can't see real convictions. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-12-10-26	I now give the floor to Congressman István Józsa for two minutes.
u2014-12-10-27	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The comment that I just made made me comment for two minutes. The subject of the agenda is a separate report by the Public Prosecutor's Office on the period 2009-2013, covering five years, i.e. the assessment of the functioning of the Public Prosecutor's Office as an independent public prosecutor's institution. The fact that we are taking concrete examples does not mean that we want to change their political judgment. What I am going to give you is an example of the need for the prosecution to be careful to accept political orders, and along this momentum, to threaten the independence of the institutional system, to overdo it. I believe that it would be very helpful for a better representative to tell us the same juicy matters that Fidesz created originally, and that the prosecution has done their job well and badly, and the comments show that we believe that it is wrong. But to ignore your comment, which refers to an institutional assessment, and to focus on a specific case, what you want to see is good, tell us, but the point of our comments is not to have the functioning of the prosecutor's office smacked with politics, but to be professionally sound and politically independent. Thank you, Mr. President. [[11.10]]
u2014-12-10-28	For another two-minute comment, I give the floor to Andras Schiffer.
u2014-12-10-29	In fact, I would agree with my colleague Józsa, but the fact is that the perception of the prosecutor's office as an institution after 25 years is the following: the prosecutor's office is covering for the political elite so that nothing is revealed in this country. After 2002, there was a squeal from the opposition Fidesz about the violence that took place here, the socialists proclaiming a vendetta against the ex-fidesz, being humiliated by conceptual lawsuits. The same texts were said by the Fidesz people. Do we know anything today about the 2001 state abductions in 2002? Have you been investigated by the then socialist government or the prosecutor's office? He didn't check it out. Do we know anything about various juicy cases before 2010? - which were not found and posted by the Hungarian Nation, but by the Index. Do the Hungarian people know more about the cases that were juicy stories when the Margaret Bridge was renovated or metro 4 was renovated? That's what we're talking about, yeah. There is no need for a Member of Parliament to give an opinion on specific procedures, but there is a need to talk about what millions of people in this country have in mind that political elites and relationships over clouds make everything possible, nothing in this country has any consequences. That's what we talked about. We are talking about the fact that, since the change of regime and even before the year of the change of regime, there have been many cases in Hungary, for example, that in the case of the Czinege villa - in 89 the last communist parliament even set up a committee of inquiry - nothing happened. Hungary has been without consequences for 25 years. That's what we're talking about, and in this, the Attorney General, the Attorney General and the D.A. have a huge responsibility. We have proposed institutional solutions to curb political elite robberies [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and give the prosecution more effective tools. That's what we talked about. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt applauds.]]
u2014-12-10-30	I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, on a normal note.
u2014-12-10-31	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Attorney General. I think that every time against corruption, and anyone who has a licence, must act without exception. All kinds of corruption must also be an unpretentious opponent of the prosecution, naturally impartially; impartially, because otherwise it will be damaged. They are not random - if the Attorney General looks at them, you can see some pictures here on laptops, on notebooks - they are not random, because they are also evidence, tangible evidence that your personal work can be considered impartial. You know, when you sit with József Szájer, Viktor Orbán, at the meeting of the Fidesz national elections - I am talking about the young Fidesz - and you are speaking with Mr Orbán, you can obviously not erase this past from your life. You don't have to erase it. In terms of impartiality, however, some people may wonder whether, although you have been able to move past it, and whether your relationship with actions and with the conduct of actions and the conduct of cases is what they are like in this respect. Look, I need you to let me at least have my doubts about this. I should at least have doubts in this regard, even because we have faced a number of cases that have made this interesting and questionable in the past period. You're telling me that by making false promises to make a confession in a democratic rule of law, that's not going to work, that's incompatible? If we agree on this, if there is no difference between us, then allow me not to read an article, but to quote a detail from the testimony of one of the defendants in the General's trial before the court, not too long, just to return to this sentence: I must admit that between 23 June and 19 November 2010, I would have admitted a number of times anything I didn't do. Even that I'm a pedophile and a child killer. It occurred to me to make a false confession to the prosecutor on 23 June at the Fast Carriage Street Prison on 24 July at my wedding anniversary; on 4 August at my daughter's birthday; in September, when I learned that my company had been ordered to be wound up. And I remembered every morning and every noon and every night, that whatever the D.A. puts in front of me, I will sign it. And it occurred to me most of all, when two officers hit me until my ears started bleeding, just to know where I was supposed to be and what I should do. But because I knew the truth was on my side, that's why I didn't speak. But now I'm speaking in court because I believe in the independence of the board. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. As I said, this is a detail of the testimony of one of the defendants of the General's trial in court. And as I said before, a confession forced by false promises or by any other means is not compatible with the framework of a democratic rule of law. Mr. Attorney General, that's what you say, isn't it? If that is the case, then, in a real rule of law, it is safe to say that the Attorney General would remove those who are involved in and have an impact on the abuse, even after one such scandalous case; and if he could not do so for any reason, he would withdraw his consistency and submit his resignation. You didn't do this, I wonder why you don't, or wouldn't like to do it here today, within the walls of Parliament, or do you at least wonder if there are things behind the contents of these sentences that need to make you at least reflect on the future - yourself personally. I would also like to record that I believe that the vast majority of prosecutors are correct, decent people and pursue sin. It's okay. I think there's no question in that. However, as regards both the keynote speech and other wordings, we believe that there are others who, perhaps my fellow Member Barándy said, have become ministers of the governing parties, and have been factually supported by my fellow Member. I will not go deeper into these, but I would just like to say that I believe that there is political motivation among certain procedures. Allow me to say that I am convinced that this is how I see it. I'm trying to confirm my vision. I'm not gonna talk about details like the General's case now, but I could. I will not do anything about the proceedings against Ferenc Juhász. I am not going to talk about the Hunvald case, nor am I going to talk about the important sentences, nor am I going to add any additions to the case of Gyula Molnár, only that the postman role played by the prosecution three or four days before the election, I do not think it is necessary to play the role of the postman, but in the crossfire of the cameras, this is, according to my values, considered shameful, shameful and not random. It is obvious that in a case, when we get to the point where there is any urge to take action, it is not in the multitude of great randomities that take place three or four days before the party's choice. [[11.20]] Yeah, if we consciously think that way, if we consciously shape the processes like this, then, of course, that could be it. I will not talk, as has been said before, about Sukoro or the UD case, no; but I would certainly say in a confirmatory manner, which has been said, that it must always be considered who is sitting on the bench of the accused. As it was said, are those who are supposed to sit there or are others sitting there? Or should someone else be sitting there? I would rather deal with one more specific issue. This specific question relates to the narrower living room, my living environment, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, Miskolc. This can also be seen as a category of witch hunt in Miskolc. Mr Attorney General, once here in Parliament, perhaps within a two-minute question, or I don't remember what kind of genre we talked about this issue in. Maybe it was an immediate question. The point is that in March 2011 Miskolc's mayor, the Fidesz Kriza Ákos, who was elected by Miskolc, filed a complaint against an unknown unsub in several cases. There's nothing wrong with that - if there's a basis, then so be it. More than three years ago, in my knowledge, none of the cases have been proven that anything that has happened has been condemned. If I remember correctly, 74 charges were filed. There have been detailed hearings, naturally involving experts - this is appropriate - and the hearing of witnesses has taken place, the case has been closed several times, but for some reason these cases have always been reopened and reopened. Contrary to the fact that if opposition or left-wing - no matter where it comes from - reports have been made, investigations are considered to be superficial or possibly without the involvement of experts, asking potential suspects what happened in connection with the crime. What was their position, obviously? We don't have to be too smart for that. While the complainant's objections were rejected without justification by not being affected. Is that impartiality? My very first words were about impartiality. The law can be wrinkled and twisted in such a way that this is the outcome. But it's not about the law, it's about what I'm talking about, the impartiality. Again, I have my doubts in this regard. The country's publicity has also seen, as an example, whether or not they were rushing or rushing about the trade-off. Well, they didn't, and they didn't work as hard as they did on the case of some opposition politicians. 2014. CHAPTER VI the 18th of month was the day when an exemplary decision was made. I'm talking about Miskolc. For the fifth time, the former holding director in Miskolc did not commit a crime in the specific case. The investigating authorities have already been down the road once, and after an in-depth investigation, they've closed it. The D.A.'s office reopened it, examined it, and closed the investigation again. But some people just can't deal with it, they put up with you. I was assisted by a law firm in the capital, as far as I know. Then, when the decision was made, an appeal was made when the acquittal took place. Doesn't this look like a witch hunt to you? I know you're going to say, no, it's just that, given all the legal possibilities, those who had the chance, have been on the road. Yes, but where are the precedents that would have been similar in other cases? Where are we on the measurement of equal standards? As far as I'm concerned, Fidesz is using the D.A.'s office as an element of the election campaign, as an institution for the election campaign. That's how I see it, and no one can take that right away from me. That's how I see it. But I don't see it that way. A lot of people see it that way, Mr. Attorney General. And that's the bigger problem. 'Cause if I was the only one to see it that way, you could say to me that I'm biased about this. But when a lot of people see it that way, then the thought of God not giving me is remembered, is that so? - and if that's the case, that's a big problem. I'm asking you to do everything you can to make sure that doesn't happen, and that doesn't seem like it. It is not necessary to act as a postman of the regime and to play a role in specific matters! I would also like to say to you that, obviously, the prosecutors and prosecutors cannot abuse their duties, they must fulfil their duties, and, as has already been said today, they cannot be leaked. I'm not going to make any allegations, but if someone is the source of the information, and we get to see the confirmations on the media much sooner than the prosecutor's office is saying, then again, I have to at least allow the right to assume that, yes, there is a leak. And if that's what's going on, I have to say again that this is absolutely wrong. Mr Attorney General, I would like to say that I also think that there is something to be done in this regard. You don't have to criminalize election campaigns on either party. No. It should be more about VAT fraud. András Horváth's case has already been mentioned here, who has taken action in this regard, and then he has become the victim of the story. I'm not sure that's right. Trafic cases should have taken place, and an intensive fight should have taken place following the emergence of the Trafikmut in Szekszárd. There was no report, but it might have been worth looking at, since I was talking about Miskolc, how it exists that twenty out of eighty-some concessions were awarded to two Fidesz municipal representatives in connection with the decision. Maybe you should have seen this, too. The prosecution could have taken certain steps in this respect. But we could talk about the dirt dog and a lot of other things. But I'm not talking about anything anymore, just that I'd like to ask the D.A., the Attorney General, to do what he's supposed to do, but to do it impartially. In my last sentence, allow me to thank those who, according to my beliefs and values, really pursue sin within the prosecution's framework and do it impartially. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-10-32	Now it is possible to make two-minute comments. I give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer.
u2014-12-10-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, If someone comes from Mars and listens to this whole day, it may seem to him that there was nothing to see before 2010, and there is nothing to see after 2010, because there is no corruption now, everything is fine, and before 2010, there was no corruption, but there were conceptual lawsuits, even now there are conceptual lawsuits. Mr. Attorney General. I think it would be best if you answered those specific points in this debate that, in the course of individual investigative proceedings, the prosecution's function of protecting the law is to ensure that no one suffers from humiliating treatment, neither in the prison or in police prisons, how the Hungarian prosecutor's office performs it. What is the prosecution's view, I note, that, in connection with the autumn 2006 events, and since then, there have been complaints that people in pre-trial detention use unacceptable methods for the execution of sentences or for persons in police personnel? And once again, I would like to refer to what my fellow Member, Barándy, and I have already suggested in May 2010 how the prosecutor's office is involved in the pre-trial detention exercise that treats pre-trial detention in Hungary as a pre-emptive punishment. That is what I would expect to hear from the Attorney General if he does not want to hear more stories today. [[11.30]] And, of course, I would also look forward to Mr. Attorney General's reply as to the latest deadline for investigation in the NAV scandal. The deadline of 12 November has passed, hasn't it? It is about the fact that every year, looking at the period 2007-2013 in the green dossier, he places a thousand billion forints in losses on the Hungarian budget side, a thousand billion forints were stolen from the Hungarian people's pockets, according to the Horváth report. What's the D.A.'s answer to that? Thank you.
u2014-12-10-34	I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt for a two-minute comment.
u2014-12-10-35	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Listening to the Fidesz and MSZP representatives may seem to be either corrupt or not in the last 25 years. Now, of course, it would be best if no one was corrupt, and we lived in a country where no one steals, but everyone likes to accuse each other of that. This would be the better case. The bigger problem is that this is not supported by the figures that support stolen money from Hungary, even by international organisations. And people's personal experience or even politicians' personal assets and statements published in the press, estimations of politicians' assets or even photos and facts do not support this. Then the main question is where the money is and who stole it. That's what someone should be investigating for the last quarter of a century after the change of regime. As I said in my speech as the lead speaker, people don't care about pointing fingers at each other, they don't care that you were a little bit more guilty than I am, that you can get away with these cases, but you care about where the money is, who stole it, and how you're gonna get it back, whether it's the prosecution or law enforcement. Or at least for long years, they plug in those involved. I think, and this is the general opinion of the people that the independence of the prosecution and law enforcement agencies would be based on the fact that people would see that, yes, the former MSZP politician could end up in a cell with the Fidesz if he was stolen. Then they'd say there's a justice system, and that's where the abuse goes. But at the moment, we see that there is no accountability on either side. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-10-36	I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy in a two-minute time frame.
u2014-12-10-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, we understand, and we are patient to hear that Jobbik and LMP have an ambition that, since they have not yet been governed, they are trying to push corruption onto the two parties that have had the opportunity to govern it on several occasions. That is not the case, honourable Members. The problem is, they don't understand what we're talking about. We are talking about, and we have supported this with quite a lot of examples, that in this case, we are talking about exonerating judgments, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, violations of the law committed by the prosecutor's office, which we are not saying. And that's the point. Because we can be biased; yes, my fellow Members, we can be, because in many cases we are dealing with people whom we have personally known. That's not the problem. It's because the court says that the prosecution is in violation of the law. However, this is a serious problem, and I think it is my fellow Member Staudt. And what these words are about, that's part of what it means. On the other hand, it means, and I would like to put it on the table, that the prosecutor's office has double standards in these cases. I deeply share your view, whether you say it, either Congressman Staudt or Congressman Schiffer, Mr Group Leader, that anyone committing acts of corruption must be investigated. But it is not okay, fellow Members, to look at acts committed on one side with a magnifying glass, and to try to scrub those on the other side. I supported these events, these events, with a number of examples in my speaker's speech, and my fellow Members are doing so. We do not wish to interfere with court judgments, as appropriate. But when it appears tenuously that one has the splinter and the other has the beam, that must be said by a Member. And it should also be said if the court says that they are being prosecuted by illegal means. Ladies and gentlemen, That is what this is all about before I want to divert the debate in another direction. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-12-10-38	I now give the floor to Congressman László Kiss in a normal time frame.
u2014-12-10-39	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, I would also like to report to you on another bogus case, the Hunvald-Weinek case, in which the court has given the following reasons for its acquittal:, Justice cannot become a means of discrediting political opponents. In this criminal case, the court stated in its three-hour explanatory statement the errors which the prosecutor's office apparently made in this case. The court cannot become an instrument of political vengeance, he warned the political actors in the judge's explanatory statement. In the absence of a criminal offence, all defendants were subsequently acquitted for consulting contracts under Article VII. Districts and XIV. In the case of former mayors of the district. The judge has repeatedly drawn attention to the fundamentally flawed prosecutorial logic that the prosecution has recovered, and also to the fact that the advisory fee paid to the two municipalities in the previous term was neither excessive nor illegal. 46 witnesses were questioned in the case, and it became clear from the hearings that the legal coverage of the payments had been ensured throughout, and the defendants had not crossed the legal framework with the mandates. In fact, when the prosecutor's office contested these facts, it criticized the municipal law, which is currently being applied by the municipalities. That's what the court said. In the last word, two defendants spoke, and in both cases the absurdity of the trial is well characterized by what they have said. One of the acquitted defendants is freaking out that only a fidesz congressman or a fidesz politician can be a good advisor, we can think of the century-end scandal that's happening today, and that can prove it. While the other defendant told me that his crime actually consisted of knowing two mayors at the time. Both of them, like all the defendants in the trial, were acquitted by the court. Following the judgment, György Hunvald drew attention to the fact that there was no damage to the judgment, and he also said that no mayor could legitimately and professionally criticise his predecessor's advisory contracts, since he did not know its content. And in the event - because the defendants were actually accused that it could be fulfilled not only in writing but also orally on the basis of the contract of assignment - if the prosecutor's office were to dispute the unlawfulness of this, the oral contracts of György Kárpáti, who gave the Prime Minister of Orbán a sports council, would be 670 thousand forints per month, and Zsuzsa Hegedűs, a sociologist for social purposes, with almost 1 million forints per month. These are the contracts, this House, which, in the event that the prosecutor's office maintains its position that the contracts of assignment were faked, should also be an obligation for the prosecutor's office to file a complaint. But we can continue to watch the events. My fellow Members have said before me that very often the prosecution has been involved in criminalising election campaigns. In fact, it can be said that all cases which have been politically involved and which have emerged during electoral campaigns have been brought forward during electoral campaigns. So it is not what Staudt and my fellow Member Schiffer said that there is a sort of accountability or not happening here. This is about, and I'll tell you exactly that there is no accountability. These cases are only important when and as long as there are election campaigns. But no one can seriously believe that political corruption only occurs during election periods and that it will only be discovered during election periods. This kind of approach is more than ridiculous. If you remember, in the 2010 elections, the UD case, the BKV case, the Hunvald case, the Sukoro case, and it could still be classified, which ruffled the moods in the electoral battles. [[11.40]] In 2014, the Simon case, the case of KáGéBéla at the EP elections in May 2014, where the Hungarian nation managed to find out that, like Ernő Mesterházy, KáGéBéla spent his life in interesting conditions in a hundred million-dollar castle in Piliss. This must also be very disturbing to my better fellow Members, since it is indeed unacceptable to do so. [[Gergely Farkas: Then stop playing cavalier.]] that KáGéBéla, who may be accused of treason, lives in these circumstances, or according to the press. But in any case, it can be said that we can see all the elements of the political concept here, also in this case. And the final case is the Legacy case in October 2014. Compared to that, there are questions the D.A.'s office wasn't so proactive about when it was supposed to be done. It's enough to think about the VAT fraud case, the downsizing of private pension funds, the continued growth of Rogán's house and the growth of its properties, the case of KSE in Kecskemét or the case of the Farmhouse. Similarly, the D.A.'s office has not acted in connection with any of the complaints and reports that concern the traffic case. As an individual representative of Óbuda, let me give you just one district example. In our district, 50 traffic licences were issued, 37 of them were traffic movies and 13 were district entrepreneurs. Technically, it can be said that the tax authorities of the tramp license have made 37 district entrepreneurs on the ground in order to provide economic space for well-defined interest groups. What I can say about this is that no investigation has been carried out in this traff case to date, and we have not received any response to how, how, despite the fact that the MSZP has consistently initiated this. What happened is the encryption of this case. Of course, the methods that my fellow Members have already analysed here are broadly known. Interestingly, in matters of political involvement, hearings and interviews between witnesses and accused persons are often known by the right-wing press before the person concerned. The leaking of investigative material, parts of certain evidence, confessions, or all of it is on the agenda in almost every case; they are also accidentally distributed to the right-wing press. Then we can also see precedents for making accusations - in many cases these accusations are made publicly - that are not even tried to prove during the trial or are not included in the indictment. It's regular. It's enough to think of the bombastic nokis box statement, which the prosecution didn't even try to prove, and he didn't put it in the indictment, but obviously the government propaganda, the Fidesz party propaganda, was able to take over these bombastic prosecutorial announcements or leaks. In the meantime, the prosecution does not do anything, in practice, or in the case of claims made by the MSZP. All I need to think about is that between 2011-2014, the MSZP's centre of democracy filed a complaint between 30 and 40, so let's say that it filed a monthly complaint, compared to which the prosecutor's office has either done nothing or has been delaying the reactions ever since. It is also important to state what my fellow Member Barondy has said here. In political cases, the prosecution's arraignment statistics are far from what you described. This is obviously either because the D.A.'s office is not accurate enough in these cases, or because these cases are not actually justified. I think, therefore, it is clear that until evening, we could list the politically involved cases in which the prosecution acted as a propaganda tool for Fidesz. We'd like to ask the Attorney General not to do that. Don't do it, because it is bad for Hungarian democracy and it is bad for the Hungarian prosecutor. We can take action against corruption, we can build a modern, well-functioning, just state if the prosecution does its job impartially, if the prosecution really does strike at everyone he has to strike, regardless of party status, but at the same time he is not an instrument for a party or not an instrument for a government's revenge. Thank you for listening.
u2014-12-10-40	I now give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer for a two-minute comment.
u2014-12-10-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, To talk about concrete issues, what cases have shuddered over the last ten years, here the Index has collected, after the 2010 elections, so to speak, the 13 most serious cases, and among other things, the Index also writes that according to Austrian newspaper reports Strabag has given bribes to Hungarian politicians for good orders for many years. That's a serious charge. Attorney General, what was written in the Austrian press at the time, concerns the political elite at that time in full. I also asked the Prime Minister the question, and the answer was a blunder. Once again, we are faced with a similar case as in Croatia, that in a country neighbouring us, criminal proceedings are under way in connection with a case, there are condemnations, but Hungary seems immune to corruption, but it may also be immune to facts. Today, this company, Strabag, is a permanent consortium partner for one of the largest winners of Hungarian public procurements, the Public Machine. This case was out in the European press, it was out in the Austrian press, there was a serious investigation in Austria. I will ask you, as I asked the Prime Minister a good six months ago, what is the situation in this case, what is the policy of the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office when a serious corruption case comes to light in a neighbouring country that has Hungarian ties. How long do we have to wait for the Hungarian prosecution to conduct a thorough investigation in such cases? I would also like to point out that, according to the then discovery of the Index and the Weekly Reply, the threads of this case reached all sides of the then political elite. I look forward to hearing from the Attorney General on this matter. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-10-42	In a two-minute comment, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt.
u2014-12-10-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd respond to László Kiss. On the one hand, Béla Kovács denied the news in the press, so that his house was not purchased at a value of 100 million, and he had legal income for this, it is a huge difference, and he was not accused of corruption crimes. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] You're right about these issues coming up in the campaign, but then they're embezzled. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's it!]] And they're embezzled from both sides. When the MSZP came to government, the cases that were launched against Fidesz politicians were equally embezzled, and in many cases they probably would have stopped, but for some reason there was no judgment. That should explain to people why they didn't turn into judgments. Meanwhile, people see that the entire country has been stolen by the sets of the last 25 years. And they're waiting for the answer to who, how and how. And what do they see? Different charges are made, no liability. Again, I'm telling you, they're playing this game regardless of party stand. It is possible to mention investments that have been suspected of corruption or abuses: Metro 4, Margit Bridge, Megyeri Bridge. The Megyeri Bridge is very good: where are we on the Megyeri Bridge case? A lot of Hungarian people, small and medium-sized enterprises, have been hurt. In several articles, the professional press discussed that it was likely that in the background it was possible, as a collaboration between large companies with Fidesz and MSZP, close to government, that small and medium-sized enterprises were simply not paid for. And we're seeing any results? I have not heard any serious criminal proceedings involving policy and these large companies. If people see this, they'll see that small cases may be held accountable, but not in real, racially serious cases, and it's hard to explain to people who lost everything on the project of, say, the Megyeri Bridge. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-12-10-44	I now give the floor to Congressman István Józsa.
u2014-12-10-45	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think, along with the author, and so with the chief prosecutor, we can agree that one of the main criteria of the rule of law is, to say, the cornerstone of independent prosecution. Mr. Attorney General mentioned in his introduction that it is right that the prosecution's work, the prosecution's work, is free of party politics. [[11.50]] Well, in my comment, I would like to list factual events that support the view that this independent operation, this neutrality, political impartiality, has been damaged in the prosecution's work. I would like to explain one of the outliers because it is so absurd, and it shows so much what I said in my previous comment that they can destroy anyone, whether they are justified or not, that this is unfounded. I am referring to the case of Gyula Molnár, who, on 1 October 2010, was accused of being independent by the Hungarian prosecutor's office a few days before the municipal elections. He suspected Gyula Molnár, the very successful MSZP mayor in New Buda, who had the chance to re-election even during this difficult period, in connection with a 2006 case, not in the subject cycle, but in connection with a previous cycle, in connection with the sale of the property next to the Kopasi dam, which the municipality continued to sell profitably. After a long investigation into the Kopasi Dam, the BRFK closed the investigation in 2009 in the absence of a criminal offence. So the professional organizations went through the investigation based on Fidesz's report; I must add that the district Fidesz fraction leader was the indictor, so there is already a political thread here. However, at the end of its professional work, the BRFK concluded the investigation in the absence of a criminal offence, and in its closing decision it clearly established the legality of the investment, the growth of municipal assets, the good faith of the determining authorities and persons, their goodwill and professionality. That was 2009. Then, however, the politically independent, but very diligent prosecutorship, the prosecutor's office calling itself politically independent, kept another case alive as a sideline of the case, resulting in a time frame for elections. With this move, the D.A.'s office intervened very harshly in the election struggle. After a thousand days of investigation, three days before the elections, the Hungarian prosecutor's office considered itself independent, felt that it had to take this step. The spokesperson of the D.A.'s office calling himself independent explained all this by saying that this was the way it came out. Please, there are no such coincidences. So at least in this case, you should exercise self-criticism. What God does, three days later, Gyula Molnár lost the elections and began, more precisely, to continue the process since 2007. Then, after several years of investigation and investigation, the D.A.'s office has stated, so you, the D.A., have stated that there has been no material damage to the municipality, that every step of the procedure has been lawful, but in your opinion, the mayor has abused his authority during the proceedings. Let me quote the court of first instance. On September 4, 2012, in the absence of a criminal offence, the Metropolitan Tribunal acquitted suspects in all six of your charges. From the explanatory statement:.The Metropolitan Court saved the defendants in the absence of a criminal offence, Eleonóra Krecsik, Head of the Council, presented the statements in detail in the context of the judgment, stressed that the former mayor of NewBuda cleared the money from the sale of the property, from which parks and playgrounds were renovated, upgraded and cleaned up. So, after a thousand days of investigation, three days before the election, you will press charges, two years after which, in the absence of a criminal offence, the court of first instance will release the accused. Then comes a turn, second in October 2013, the Metropolitan Court imposed 8 months in prison, two years in detention from public affairs on the basis of a witness statement who had previously been convicted of perjury and did not work in the municipality during that period. The witness explained in his statement that he had no knowledge of the specific case - the prosecutor's office had made this witness, and I'm only detailing it - and he merely claimed, based on the hearing in the hallway, that he believed that there was an irregularity. So, so much for your professional preparation, your reliable witnesses. Finally, after a long trial, eight years after the event, Gyula Molnár was legally acquitted by the Curia. So, for eight years, a successful MSZP politician has been flogged with fabricated fidesz accusations, serving political goals. I say, on the one hand, that they should be ashamed of themselves, but that's not enough. So, you professors of science, you run a responsible institution, check this out. If we know from the press who the cadres are who are doing this to you, then you need to know, or you gave them the assignment, or if you didn't do it, you need to find out who they are and get them disciplined. You can't do that. The prosecution's reputation is violated by such an event. Let me say that this case is a terrifying test for political opponents to reach out to the last and lowest means and to make justice a tool for their political goals, and some of the actors in the justice system actively assist in this. The notion that some politicians believe that they will succeed with the support of justice, as the Fidesz mayor did, that they do not want to win with their talents, abilities and words, but with the creation of criminal matters. Annex XI is amended as follows: In the district, we did it, but it's unworthy of the prosecution's work. The Hungarian court's independence proves that it has ended the case, but the procedure shows that the political independence of the prosecutor's office has been undermined. There are two other cases I would like to mention, because in my 15 minutes, there is still time for what they are investigating and what they are not. So here I have shown that things that were absolutely trumped-up and can only be considered a political concept, you have gone through this, even after the first-degree judgment, even when there was no crime, two of the six trumped-up charges were reserved, and the prosecutor felt it was his duty to carry on the case. What aren't you looking at? I'm telling you, it was based on the Fidesz report, and it didn't stop. A statistic has been said that these fidesz reports eventually stand in court at this rate of 20-25 percent. So it's kind of weird. You might be able to give me better stats. I've read that data. What they are not investigating, however, the MSZP filed a complaint concerning the purchase of E.ON's shares, the purchase of a company and the MET offshore gas shops. It is a matter of serious irregularities in the MVM's decision-making process, and there is a serious question of misrepresentation because, according to professional opinions, it does not reach a fraction, so the market value of the purchased items is less than EUR 260 billion or EUR 875 million; so if the professional investigative journalism finds out, if there is a complaint, why is the prosecution not willing to deal with such a large-scale issue when it is an extreme loss of assets, it is a loss of more than EUR 100 billion. [[12.00]] Or the process called offshore gas business, where MET - known as MOL Energy Trade, in which István Garancsi, the Prime Minister's friend, and Videoton's owner - was equally complex and has been burdened with irregularities, was able to obtain a very favourable deal for HES by allowing the MVM as a gas dealer to use the only gas pipeline connecting Austria with Hungary by a ministerial decree. So they used this ministerial decree to bring in cheap natural gas, which was then not used for the reasons of the Ministerial Decree, to upload the strategic gas storage or to deliver cheap gas to the district heating plant, but was also sold to MOL Energy Trade - i.e. MVM - and after that MET sold at market prices in Hungary, thus achieving over a hundred billion profits over three years. For the record, this might be the hundred billion missing from the MVM's results. In previous years, Hungarian Electricity was a contributor to the budget, since then it has been reversed, and for example, next year's budget includes a capital increase of HUF 50 billion. Therefore, there are extremely serious cases, both in the complaint and in the documents published in the meantime, which show that there is a reasonable suspicion that there has been an irregularity, that there has been a loss of assets, because the E.ON storage facility is not worth that much, that the profit at MET can be measured on a balance sheet, which would essentially concern MVM if they did not abuse the capacity provided by the Ministerial Decree and sold themselves or sold in accordance with the objective. So you can see that it's not just the horse's foot that hangs out, it's the whole herd, as someone here said in the walls of the House. Yet you refuse these charges without investigation, you do not want to pay me cleanly. So, Mr. Attorney General, if you want to do what you said in the introduction to ensure that the prosecution's work is free of party politics, at least these matters, which we here in Parliament have factually proven, examine, look at those who act impartially and order themselves in their own ranks, or, if you are unable to do so, resign. Thank you.
u2014-12-10-46	Now we have two-minute comments. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt.
u2014-12-10-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We're just amazed and staring, I'll tell you why. Because during the speech by István Józsa, before we shed tears and think about the concept of procedures, it should be mentioned that I am sure that my fellow Member Józsa knows, but he probably forgot at the beginning of his large speech about who was the council judge who acquitted Gyula Molnár at the third degree. His name was Róza Mészár, he appeared in the press, and so much to know about him - I went online - that he was the candidate for the Constitutional Court of the MSZP in 2010. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] In addition, the odd fintor of fate is to know who announced on the part of the MSZP that the MSZP would be the candidate for the Constitutional Court? A guy named Gábor Simon. [[A voice from Jobbik's ranks: Defiance in the same place.]] Does that name ring a bell? The article was also published on the Index. So it's really weird when they're trying to prove your innocence. But it's also very strange... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Understand what the debate is about, Gábor.]] Yes, and it is also very strange, my fellow Member, Barándy, and I could now address this to Róbert Répássy and even the Kúria, how such a case could happen, that in the case of an MSZP politician, at a third instance, a council is acting, the head of which was the candidate for the Constitutional Court of the MSZP. I understand that there is no legal conflict of interest. Of course, it's a barn twister. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Other reasons.]] may be for other reasons, and my fellow Member Schiffer may say so, but if people hear this... they have heard what I have told you and, of course, Gábor Simon said, then still a credible politician [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] and announced it. So if people see this, they say that Fidesz really wanted Gyula Molnár accounted for? Or didn't anyone at the Mansion notice there was a problem? Or the [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] Does impartiality seem to be a bit of a tipper? So let's think about these, too. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-10-48	I now give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer for two minutes.
u2014-12-10-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to quote a classic to give concrete examples. József Debreczeni, one of the leaders of the Democratic Coalition, recently wrote the following. In 2009-10, the arrival of the new times was marked by the first major scandal project of the Public Machine, and one of the last in terms of the operation of the Puch-Simicska axis: the reconstruction of the Margaret Bridge. This also seemed to be a three-player game in terms of the parties, since the competition of the capital led by Demszky was won by the Közép-Hídépítő-Strabag consortium. Although it was originally announced that the investment was planned for 13 billion, the winner became the 22 billion public jet offer. There was a great uproar in the press, but the parties of the Metropolitan Assembly did not protest on either side, and in the end Demszky did not veto either. In order to detect the magnitude of the 22 billion-dollar renovation, let us compare it with the construction costs of the Megyeri Bridge, which is also not cheap. The latter cost $34 million a meter. Based on this: the Margaret Bridge could have built a completely new bridge of 18.2 billion - while the simple renovation cost more than 4 billion! In other words, while the Megyeri Bridge was built for $34 million, Margaret's bridge was renovated for $42 million. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. How could this happen, Mr. Attorney General, and where is the investigation in this case? It seems that if we ask about these cases, then there are those who think that the current stinky cases, the Trafikmoty, the sabotaged NAV investigation committee, the state robberies will exempt us from the past, and they will not make what happened before 2010 happen, and vice versa: when you, pro-government representatives and the government are confronted with state land robberies, Public Machine Procurement, Trafikkuty, they are constantly pointing back. I don't think that everyone here has been guiltless for the last 25 years, and I think that there's been corruption all over the entire political elite of the last 25 years, and unfortunately, the prosecution has been covering for this in the last quarter of a century. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-10-50	I now give the floor to Congressman Sándor Szabó in a normal time frame.
u2014-12-10-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The media has been reporting for years on the case of KSE Kft., a company operating a sports association in Kecskemét. His billing scandal. According to press reports, the case is about the nearly 100% municipal-owned Kft. In fact, it has concluded contracts for marketing and advertising purposes with three companies that do not even deal with such a thing, which are not included in the activities of companies. The case was set up by a four-party municipal inquiry committee, and the commission of inquiry found that in two years the three companies received HUF 298 million in public money. KSE Kft. After the investigation of the Committee of Inquiry, the mayor himself, the Centre for MSZP Democracy, and a private individual filed a complaint in December 2011, a few days apart. The case was unified as the Bács-Kiskun County Attorney General's Office, which oversees the regional investigation team of customs and financial services, announced a bias and the case was transferred to Szeged. According to press reports, under Csongrád County Attorney General's watch, the NAV launched an investigation on suspicion of tax fraud and fraudulent treatment three years ago. According to the news, in the meantime, the association is operated by the company. members of the supervisory board left the company, the company went bankrupt, and according to the press, the members of the supervisory board created a new company, and the company was converted into this. former assets. As we learned from the press, the liquidation firm, the appointed insolvency commissioner, has filed charges for the crime of bankruptcy. [[12.10]] We've been investigating a case for three years. We don't know what the outcome of the investigation will be. One thing we know is that there is silence around the case; and another thing we know is that the deputy mayor responsible for managing Kecskemét companies was then Szemereyné Pataki Klaudia, who since then has had a relatively large career, since he became a Member of Parliament during the investigation. György Matolcsy was able to take over his vacant mandate, by the way, and by the way, in the current autumn municipal elections, he became mayor of Kecskemét, replacing the mayor of Gábor Sombor. They've been looking into it for years. So a nearly 100 percent municipal company has billed HUF 298 million mainly in cash for advertising activities, once again, to three companies that have never performed such activities. I think that in a real rule of law, the Attorney General, the prosecutor in charge of the case, would have been replaced long ago if, after so much time, the investigation had not yet come to an end in a relatively clear case. I also think that people should not feel that there is a double standard. This must also be avoided, because citizens, ordinary people, have a bad message about their faith in Hungarian legal certainty. Almost three years have passed in a simple billing case. I think it should be the end of the investigation by now. If an ordinary man did this, let alone the investigation was over, I think that he would have served his prison sentence if something like this had happened. By the way, the case has been pouring on local public opinion for years. I don't think we should let this look like a case swept under the rug. I think it's in everyone's best interest. Thank you.
u2014-12-10-52	I now give the floor to Congressman László Szakács in a normal time frame.
u2014-12-10-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Attorney General, First, I would like to say a few thoughts about the report. I can also say, in a technical way, that this account is good. There is nothing wrong with this report, with what is in it; with what is not in it, I think there are quite a lot of problems with that. We should have gotten used to it here in Parliament, because this is not the first report that has been said, there is a debate about it that is not necessarily meaningful. Of course, they do not participate in the debate. I would encourage everyone to say that in a formal way, if you have an opinion on what we say here, so do it, press the button, ask for a word and tell us. It's the custom of parliament. We're arguing here. It's happened before. This was the report of the Media Council. This was the SAO's report. This was the NMHH report, where they told them what they had typed there, we said our opinion about it, and then in the closing word, they told them what they typed, and then, in the end, the formal system is reserved for parliamentarianism, because we are in the Parliament on the banks of the Danube, people are talking about it, it is true that one has nothing to do with the other, but then the agenda can be closed. First of all, I would encourage everyone to argue. So this Parliament will be full, or this debate will be like this report, that it is okay, but it is empty, it can be seen through. What's not in there is a bigger problem. The rest of it, of course, can be checked, I'm sure the prosecutor's office has done well, I'm sure the DA's office has done a lot of work, and I'm sure in terms of the effectiveness you said, Mr. Attorney General, in the big sum, on average, in general, everything is fine. Exceptions are the problem. Let me also argue a little with my fellow opposition Members. They tell us not to judge cases or wash the Ethiopian; we have heard that, too. Public speaking, public confidence, public speaking stands alongside public trust issues. It stands up along the lines of learning about certain matters in the broad public, in society, forming an opinion, and thus forming an opinion, Mr Attorney General, on the institution in which you have led, in respect of public confidence, I believe that one of the biggest questions is how big it is. Do Hungarian citizens trust the Hungarian criminal power, the only institution representing the state's criminal power, the only institution representing the persecution of crime, or do they not trust it? And here, along cases, we can prove that, or even if we can't prove it, but we can think of a reason why this public trust doesn't exist, which means that this public trust can be shaken. We'll draw your attention to that. If you participate in the debate and you tell us why we are not right about this, not only in the closing words, when we can no longer respond to this, we have a much easier situation, because then we can form a position together, and perhaps we can come up with the case of grace that we are deciding something here today, or everyone will leave today, not too many of us who are involved in the debate, that we have at least agreed on certain issues. This is not an option, because you will probably only be involved in closing the debate. I talked about the reports here. Of course, it is not all public bodies that report to Parliament, not even formally, such as the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund. Speaking of which - because I brought it up - it's important to say that there was a report in this, too. When the government einstanded the savings of many, many people and gained 3 billion forints, then the papers and securities in it began to be sold by this fund, which has not reported to the Hungarian Parliament since then. He may have reported it to the government, but it never came before Parliament about what happened to people's savings. According to sold papers, securities and my position, and my fellow Member Tamás Harangozó, who reportedly sold the papers at a price of more than HUF 18 billion. I would like to refer you back here for a moment to my fellow Member, Gergely Bárándy, where he resented the fact that there was a case where there was a suspicion that a lady could probably have put her hand on it for 2 million forints. That was the suspicion, and that's why he had to be taken away by the march of serious police forces, handcuffed by his children. I will tell you what happened in this case, where we are not talking about 2 million forints, but we are talking about more than 18,000 million forints; I will tell you what happened: the sky in one given world is nothing. There was an exchange of letters where the determining authority, the investigating authority, subpoenas the complaint almost literally in the grounds for refusal. This means, then, in every lawyer's reading, I suppose, in Mr. Attorney General's, that he does not dispute the factual basis of this at the time, since the negative decision that this really happened does not have anything to do with it; then he says that the economic environment did not favour the sale of securities, and therefore could only have been sold at a cheaper price, but the market obviously carries risks. It does not examine the fact that, in fact, more money was put there, since it had already been referred back to the pension fund by the government. On the other hand, he does not examine how the person who analysed this risk analysed it, and why did he decide that if these changes in the economic environment, which, by the way, caused the forint to weaken - obviously there is a reason for the government to be ashamed and ashamed - why did he have to do this deal if there was a surplus in the register anyway? [[12.20]] Why was that necessary? Why do you have to hide behind these false reasons? Why do we have to destroy public confidence by checking fake reasons, writing down in a letter, trusting that no one will appeal, putting the file where it belongs? Why do you need it? Public confidence, I believe, is built by procedures where it is carried out, weighed, properly weighed, and then presented to the court for a decision. Another such case, which destroys public trust; you know, I am a representative of Pécs, and there, let's just say that one of the large public utility companies, this Pécs Waterworks, has not changed hands under the rule of law. In the case of the Pécs Waterworks, thinking that it is not a normal thing to stop the workers at dawn, and then chase the CEO out of the office inside, and by doing so, those who are going in there to manage billion-dollar fortunes are putting their hands on those who are going in there, thinking that it is not ordinary, not law-law, and at least not as a gentleman, and in a way that could have happened in a moral and moral way, so my fellow Member Bertalan Tóth, as a representative of Pécs, filed a complaint to investigate the case at that time by the police and the prosecution, because it is a matter of priority. Pécs is the fifth largest city in the country, its drinking water supply, 160,000 people's drinking water supply and sewage treatment, I think it's not a small matter, it's a big deal, it's a huge fortune. The investigating authority, Mr Attorney General, has so much that, first of all, my colleague Bertalan Tóth's complaint was rejected by the fact that he did not attach the evidence. We're mostly lawyers who are here, everyone knows that the burden of proof in criminal proceedings lies with the authorities. It could be a lot of people's, but that's for sure not the culprit's. At this level, to relativity, to base on such a case, where, on the one hand, on the other hand, someone puts their hands on it, and on the other hand, the prosecutor's office has not yet closed it, because at a time when it didn't please the prosecution and wrote to them that he didn't have to prove it, they wrote back that there was no evidence of intent in this case. So those who were there accidentally went in, threw the CEO out of there, and accidentally, at least confident of the consequences of their actions, they wouldn't let the workers in. Now, that's what destroys public confidence. This is what destroys public confidence, Mr. Attorney General, in an institution which is intended to represent the exclusive criminal power of the Hungarian state. It's unacceptable! Anyone involved in this should have been canceled a long time ago, or if he couldn't resign, I think it's his moral duty to resign himself, Mr. Attorney General. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-12-10-54	I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi in a normal time frame.
u2014-12-10-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would also like to ask the Attorney General about specific matters. First of all, if I may, they say that it is also written in the report that everything is being done on time. Mr. Attorney General, since January 2012, we have filed a report with you on the Southland massacre. Once, although we specifically requested that the reporters be notified of the various acts and where the proceedings are going, we received a notification that they had been extended. To this day, we do not know what has happened to this report, whether you have taken any measures to seek out the Serbian authorities or if any action has taken to advance this case. By the way, I'd like to see if Mr. Attorney General can say something worthwhile about this. Allow me to say specific matters. We filed a complaint - also not today - on 26 March 2012 concerning the FÖMI. At FÖMI, an office renovation was carried out - at the time it belonged to the Minister for Rural Development, Sándor Fazekas, the Institute for Geology and Remote Sensing - and a contract for general export was concluded on 11 November 2010; for general export, I understand that in a general export, everything is possible. Then, on 6 December 2010, two contracts were concluded for the renovation of this 5th floor: one for electrical installation activities and the other for B.d. Sign Kft. has been used to repair floor coverings and painting, wallpapering. It is very important that, if we add it up, the three contracts were worth nearly HUF 30 million, and in accordance with the rules at that time - CXXX of 2009 on the 2010 budget. Law 87. According to paragraph 1 (b), the national public procurement threshold was HUF 15 million in the case of works, so it was tied close to double. We filed a complaint, and you passed it on, by the way, to XIV. The D.C.C.'s Department of Crime has conducted the investigation, and I'd like to quote you from this. I'd like to know if the Attorney General thinks this case is over from here on out, or if we should do something about it. Therefore, it was found that, by the way, Haus-Bau Kft. was contracted for general export. and, by the way, the other company contracted for painting. The same manager, József Balogh, did the same general design and painting for different amounts. It was also found that the amount of business fees was significantly higher than the current market price at the time of implementation. It was also found, the expert who had been appointed, commented, that by highlighting certain parts of the technical content of the tender dossier, a narrow offer was requested from the contractors, and then the priority parts were implemented under separate mandates, probably in order to avoid exceeding the investment limit. Therefore, the expert concludes that these separate contracts are likely to be concluded so that the investment limit is not exceeded. The construction expert also notes that the total costs of the renovation work under investigation were already 35 million forints - not even 29 - here, and these costs are significantly, at least 40 percent higher compared to the competition prices achieved in the internal design of the office in the expert's database in 2010. Then what I said was that József Balogh was the managing director of both companies, and there are some very interesting parts, but I promise I will not read the whole thing, but at least here it can be said that they dealt with this matter, there were findings. On this basis, the investigation was further rejected, and I will also explain why - this is the most beautiful part - the intention to establish a criminal offence of fraudulent treatment and the potential intention cannot be established, given that the Director-General of the FÖMI was aware that there was no need for a public procurement procedure. Therefore, since the Director-General of FÖMI did not know whether a public procurement procedure was required here, he was aware that it was not necessary, so they could safely avoid the procurement procedure. I draw your attention to the fact that you could not have been so aware of this, that the general export contract was signed for 14 million 900 thousand forints, which was accidentally a few thousand forints below the threshold on which the procurement procedure should have been carried out. Now here's my question, by the way - and it's not just about this one case, I brought up this case because it's an eloquent point - that the case has stopped from here on out, because I can't take this case anymore, I can't complain under the new laws, from now on there's no case. [[12.30]] It is true that this construction was done almost twice here, although it is in my opinion that the interests of the Hungarian people have been seriously damaged here, public money has been spent and paid to people, but there is no case. There's only one way the Attorney General would think, or the D.A. or the D.A. would think he'd have this case investigated on his own initiative. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's right!]] There's only one problem, that in general, cases that are obvious, by the way, I haven't met one, at least based on my allegations, that, in clear cases, the D.A.'s office would have thought that it was an ex officio proceeding. After all, when the House decided to violate the national symbol, and we said that our national symbols must be protected, and that includes the Holy Crown - on the proposal of Jobbik - and the Holy Crown - constantly! - violated or accused of visual representation and anything else, the D.A. has never filed a complaint of its own motion. In fact, when we press charges - I read the rejection order of Attila Kenyeres here the other day when we press charges - he claims that it is not possible to deal with these people because, under the law, it is the Holy Crown in the House that is to be protected that, if it is desecrated, it is possible to talk about a crime if it violates its visual representation of the Holy Crown, then it is not. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Shame! Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Shame!]] And the legislator, when he created this law, was thinking about it, and he wanted it not to be desecrated. I would like to draw the attention of the Attorney General to the fact that, by tomorrow, one of the - I prefer not to judge - stores or shops, when, on the basis of the representation, the Holy Crown is again desecrated. They're officially doing this, and neither the police nor the D.A.'s office are doing anything about it. Then allow me to bring another case here, which, in my opinion, was perhaps one of the most incomprehensible decisions I've made over the past period in the D.A.'s work. Together with my fellow Members, István Murányi Levente and István Apáti, then András Dégi, President of the Association of Hungarian Political Prisoners and László Mansfeld - Péter Mansfeld's brother - we filed a complaint against Dr. György Mátsik about multiple counts of intentional murder, multiple counts of intentional assault, multiple counts of forced interrogation, multiple counts of illegal detention, multiple counts of accomplices. You know, he was the prosecutor, you might remember him from that period - this period after 56 [[Dr. Péter Polt: I don't remember.]] This prosecutor, György Mátsik, who is still living his life in peace with his high pension, has not been harmed in any way, has requested a death sentence for more than 20 people, including Péter Mansfeld, who was expected to be of age and executed. We filed a complaint, and you wrote the following in the grounds for refusal on 5 November 2012, so I'm telling you, on 5 November 2012. I do not wish to read the whole explanation, there is about so much in this explanation, not in the same words, but it looks about as if it was said that Comrade György Mátsik had acted faithfully to the Hungarian People's Republic when he asked for the death penalty on these subversive elements, and you agree with that. In 2012, Mr. Prosecutor. I quote from it:, Under the above legislation, you write, Dr. György Mátsik could not propose the imposition of a penalty other than the death penalty. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So you're referring to the fact that the then applicable People's Court Act is 23. According to Paragraph (1) of the Article, the county council of the People's Court imposes a death penalty for this crime, and you say that György Mátsik is not guilty because he acted accordingly. Only in the Nuremberg trial has it been said, because, in that case, the order was carried out, and the order had the same obligation for the soldier; there, in the case of a blood prosecutor, you say that this law was in force, he could not do anything else, he asked for the death penalty. Who forced you to ask for the death penalty? Then it is also written here that Péter Mansfeld was born on the 10th of March 1941. He started his crime on the 14th of February 1958. At the end of that period, he was 17 years of age, and the death penalty was proposed, imposed and enforced in accordance with the legislation in force at that time. "You wrote in 2012. You almost say in 2012, in this quote, that the death penalty imposed on Péter Mansfeld was absolutely justified. 2012! Mr. Prosecutor, if you think it's appropriate, and it's a normal way of showing the way the prosecutor works, and there's nothing we can do about this case, because, as I said, we can't also complain. We tried, by the way, because of Levente Murányi's involvement, he even filed a complaint, of course he was immediately rejected. But you think, or the D.A. doesn't think that György Mátsik deserves to be held accountable at the moment, in 2014. I understand that if someone has, say, any personal ties to a post-56 prosecutor's job, I understand that if you don't want to investigate these matters on the basis of the connection to the former prosecutor's office, then tell me, or you don't have to be in such a very important position. And the last one, perhaps I have some time to do what you will, I imagine, will say many times, but we have dealt with Béla Biszku's case. Yeah, just how did they handle Béla Bisku's case? By constantly throwing back the complaints that could have been filed by the prosecutor's office, because not only did the Jobbik report, but Adam Gellért's international lawyer's report was also dropped by the prosecutor's office, and then, in January 2012, when we initiated a case against Béla Biszku based on crimes against humanity and filed a complaint against Béla Biszku, the investigation was launched because they couldn't do anything. But the interesting thing is, how was Béla Bisku charged? Based on criminal offences, such as row fires, which could have been prosecuted in 2010 or 2011. Therefore, they should not have waited for the crimes against humanity in 2012, since they could have acted on the basis of the reports made at the time. No, you, as long as you could, have thrown these cases back. The main task of the prosecution, in my opinion, would be, in the same way as the citizen's will that this country has a very high demand, and this being accountability, the prosecutor's office should be a partner to investigate all matters, whether in its own power, which could lead to an investigation of past crimes, political, economic and all kinds of crimes of the past. But to do that, when a complaint is filed, the prosecution should become a partner, which would require the prosecution to initiate procedures on its own, which would require the prosecutor's office to assume the position it is destined for, regardless of the policy, to carry out its professional work. In my opinion, at the moment, the D.A.'s office is unable to fulfil this task. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-10-56	We now have two-minute comments, first I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer.
u2014-12-10-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Attorney General, In the box we can welcome Zoltán Király, a member of the Anti-Corruption Alliance, who, by the way, was a candidate for the LMP in the local elections, and for example, he could tell us a lot about the futile work that had already been done in Parliament in 89 so that, for example, they could see clearly about the breakdown of MSZMP assets. That is why I mentioned that 25-year-old debt is that, in fact, matters that give rise to people's mood are not revealed. It is also a specific case in which I believe that, if the LMP proposal had been adopted, the prosecutor's office should already work on its own initiative. In November, the Private Chop was exposed by an interview with a penitent bag carrier who says the following interesting things:. Who took over bribe money from you? Socialist and free Democrat people, because I was involved with the so-called Balliberal side. The Fidesz was arranged by Zoltán Aczél. How did Acsel handle the Fidesz? According to the agreement, via Lajos Simicska and Zsolt Nyerges. How did he handle the Balliberal side, who was he in contact with? László Puch and his interests, Ernő Mesterházy and his interests. - and so on. [[12.40]] Mr. Attorney General, these are allegations in public that should be investigated by the Attorney General in order to protect the public interest. But an example of why it would be good for the prosecutor to have an effective right of redress in corruption cases: recordings appeared on West.hu before the elections, which were about how the Public Machine would help the Fidesz candidate's campaign in Siófok with money. In addition, another recording was posted on the Szombathely portal, which shows that the renovation of the hospital in Siófok is deliberately hindered by companies with Fidesz interests, because if they do nothing, they still make money. I filed a complaint, and they practically told me about it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That there's nothing to see here, let's move on. In such cases, it would have a function to ensure that reporters go to the main forums by means of an effective remedy. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-12-10-58	I now give the floor to Congressman László Teleki.
u2014-12-10-59	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, I attended the meeting of the Judicial Committee as an opposition representative and asked four questions there. I don't want to recall all four of them, but I'd like to recall one of them anyway. I asked the Attorney General, because the report issued by the NAV on András Horváth's case was published earlier on whether the prosecutor's office would initiate something in this regard. You replied that you had not studied that material yet, and then, when you study it, you will decide whether you will start something with this question. Now I would like to ask you again if you have read this material, this report, and if you wish to do something about it. I think in the last two weeks, there's been time to do that. Next thing I know, I asked how young Roma people get a chance to get in there and take the step that they can start working for the prosecutor, but you gave me the answer. So I wouldn't even like to ask that, but I just indicated that I thanked you for the answer to that question. The other is that President György Rubovszky mentioned the visit to Paris, which I also thanked last year. It was nice to talk to the Attorney General about how positive he was about you. I didn't ask for the floor to express my opposition, to say what the opposition thought, by the way, about what had been done before. I think it was absolutely right, because as a Hungarian, I had a good time, and I was proud of how much they praised him. But now, in this almost four-hour period, there have been a lot of criticisms that, I think, definitely deserve attention, and I would like to ask that, Mr. Attorney General, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] so that we can be proud of the work that you represent in Hungary, because then there will be real democracy in Hungary. Thank you.
u2014-12-10-60	I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi in two minutes.
u2014-12-10-61	Thank you very much. I would like to mention two more cases and ask the Attorney General. You could really push a button and answer it. Why didn't the D.A. interpret it as, say, an ex officio action on the Children's Cancer Foundation? When it was public knowledge of what happened at the Children's Cancer Foundation, the D.A. didn't do anything about it. The Jobbik had to press charges. We did, of course, file a complaint, but in my opinion, the D.A.'s office should have acted on its own initiative. But then there were cases where I also think the prosecution should have dealt with ex officio, such as the case of the National Development Agency. The National Development Agency, I guess, they know about it... [[Dr. András Schiffer is talking to Dr. Péter Polt.]] Mr. Schiffer's keeping the prosecutor busy, so I'm sure you won't hear it, but I'll tell you. Despite the fact that there is a law in force from January 2012 that states that offshore organisations cannot receive any state aid which states that there is no State resources available to companies with an opaque ownership structure - and that we can argue with European Union funds that I believe that it is also a state resource, but it must be added to it, and this part is added by the Hungarian State, so it is public money - these companies would not have been able to receive support from the National Development Agency from now on. However, according to our statements, he paid HUF 36 billion to companies with offshore backgrounds of the National Development Agency, which, now, is a question of who they are linked to, probably both major parliamentary parties, by the way. But in this case, too, the D.A. felt that there was nothing to go on. I'm asking why they thought so. We filed a complaint, by the way. It was immediately rejected, so they did not even examine these matters in substance as to where the budget had gone, where nearly HUF 40 billion of taxpayers' money had gone. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2014-12-10-62	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes in a normal time frame.
u2014-12-10-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear fellow Members, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Listening to my fellow Members' speeches and quotes from confessions, it's kind of creepy. For a normal, well-meaning person [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: How weird to find out!]] It's very, very scary and sad. Our children will read these testimonies as history. They're gonna be in history books, and they're gonna be making the right judgments on these cases and judgments. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Like Georgi Dimitrov!]] It will not be possible to misinterpret them, since they will indicate the past period as a document. The question is how the future generation will judge these matters. I think, out of honor and decency, people who feel bad about these cases are going to turn in their resignations and put them in a different picture in the history book. Now let me read a Tolna County case published in the article of Népszava on 9 September 2010. I read it literally, so in many cases the case is still present in time, which is already part of history. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Under questionable circumstances, a valuable property in Paks was acquired by the state, according to our information, a police report was made on suspicion of a particularly high-value misrepresentation or fraud. The Szekszárd-based, state-owned Gemenc Volán Zrt. In 2009, he sold the Paks site to a kft., in which the indirect owner was then the mayor of Szekszárd Fidesz. At that time, István Horváth was mayor, now he is only a Fidesz MP. The favourable purchase price is well paid to the new owner, since the Volán company has also concluded a seven-year lease agreement with the buyer. Another company of the mayor's customer was assisted by the city with a hundred million discount loans, where the notary was the daughter-in-law of the leader of the Volán company in 2010. Police investigation could be a real estate sale in Paks, and then the press, including the Fidesz Mayor of Szekszárd, István Horváth, writes. According to our information, we are expected to report a particularly high financial disadvantage in connection with the transaction as well as suspicion of fraud. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Under disputed circumstances, state ownership has changed owners, and among the new owners there is the then Fidesz mayor and business partner of Szekszárd, who had already been helped by the municipality by significant sums. Gemenc Volán Zrt., based in Szekszárd, operating dozens of bus services in Tolna county. At the end of last year, he sold his 43,000 square meters of Paks property. The property operating as the site of Gemenc Volán was sold for HUF 180 million, including the equipment, technical equipment and equipment there. At the time, Pakson's bid price for similar properties offered for sale in the industrial area was between HUF 9500 and HUF 260 thousand per square metre - depending on their location and the value of the superstructures on them. However, the Volán site could have been sold at the lowest price of 450 million forints. Compared to this, it was $180 million. The technical plant is Paks Industrial Park Kft. He also submitted a bid of 150 million, but according to the General Meeting of Gemenc Volán, the lowest selling price could be 171 million - based on the valuer's material likely to reach 171.2 million forints. Permitto Real Estate Development Ltd. The offer that won. This is how the property sold with the offices, workshops, diagnostic equipment and fuel well on it for HUF 180 million. This is, uh, December 22, 2009. [[12.50]] This must have been such a good deal for the buyer that he transferred an advance of HUF 47 million to the seller before the contract was signed, in exchange for the remaining amount of HUF 133 million to be settled for one year, until 31 December 2010 under the contract. In the case, a private individual filed a police report, but the investigation was closed without anyone ever showing up at Gemenc Volán to investigate the case. No one's been heard in this case, and not even the filing and seizure has taken place. The really interesting dates are in the case. On October 20, 2010, the municipal election was held, at which István Horváth started as a candidate, and also became mayor. One day later, on Monday, October 21st, a letter or two from the police arrived in the mail, in which the investigation was closed, saying that there was no case. All the good people in Tolna County, Paks and Szekszárd raised questions about this case. In connection with the BKV case, we saw that the papers were stolen by trucks, and no one showed up here. That's really interesting. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-10-64	I am now also giving the floor to Member Gábor Harangozó István in a normal time frame.
u2014-12-10-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, In a previous speech by Gábor Staudt, he spoke about the fact that there was some collusion between Fidesz and the MSZP that the MSZP should have investigated the Fidesz cases after its entry into the government. You are absolutely right, and I would just like to draw your attention to one circumstance: from 16 May 2000 until 16 May 2006 the Attorney General was called as he is now, that is, Péter Polt was the Attorney General, and these cases were not investigated at his time. I would like to quote a Parliamentary record, when Károly Tóth asked the Attorney General; I would like to quote only a few lines from it: "Dear Chief Prosecutor! Once again, we have become poorer with an illusion. Many of us believed that after the parliamentary elections in 2002, you would also break away from the practice that you had carried out before May 2002, and will finally be willing to investigate in full depth the cases, abuses, crimes committed by senior officials of the Orbán government. After 300 days of patience, however, I have to ask you what I ask you several times at the beginning of 2001 and 2002: what is going on here, why is it not acting in cases where the senior officials of the Orbán government are involved? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Is there a parallel between the current cases and the question raised at that time? Allow me to share with you, as a case study, not a press release, but a D.A.'s resolution, and what the D.A.'s office has finally come up with in this case. On 3 September 2011, which I will now tell you, I will therefore state on the basis of a prosecutor's decision, an application was issued for land managed by the Bükk National Park Board, which was due at noon on 3 October. On the basis of witnesses, however, several later successful candidates, Tállai Secretary of State and Mengyi Roland, President of the Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County General Assembly, have started intensive lobbying with the Director of the National Park in connection with the conditions of the tender, and have resented the terms and conditions of the tender, because none of these candidates would have won according to the original terms of the tender. These persons invited the Director to withdraw the application and to issue a new tender, who did not do so, he said that he would only be able to do so if he was instructed to do so by the NFA. Imagine what a great miracle had happened: on 3 October this director was acquitted, because of a loss of confidence, the minister removed him from his seat, a new man was appointed, and an hour and a half after the deadline for closing the tender, the tender was cancelled, and the National Park was ordered to open a new tender, in which the National Land Fund already told us how to open this tender. With their terms, this tender had to be carried out later, which the prosecutor's office finds that more than 50 percent of the available scores could be obtained on the basis of subjective criteria and that there was more abuse in the implementation of the tender. At the beginning of December, one of the candidates in the Bükk National Park Board building met, as he said, a later successful candidate who said that he was aware of the new tender conditions, so what the new tender conditions would be, and who would be the later winners, as he spoke to Minister Csaba Szabó, who informed him about this. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Then, according to the board report of the village of Mező Nagymihály, the same candidate at the general meeting talks about letting two phones go, one to the Secretary of State and the other to Minister Csaba Szabó, so everything will be fine. On 17 January 2012, the Board of Directors of the National Park, at the invitation of the National Fund of Earth, was unlawfully entrusted with the task of conducting this tender. The D.A.'s office itself finds that this law firm is in agreement in advance, and when they realize that it should have been applied, they invite three other applicants to an invitation to tender, but these three other candidates are registered at the same address, so it can be clearly established that there was a fake application here, and they have already agreed in advance, and that the law firm, which had agreed in advance, practically appointed by the NFA, will carry out the work. So the D.A.'s office says that this law firm has been selected during a substantially fake tender procedure. Then in February, the lawyer who received this assignment goes to the National Park, picks up the applications, takes them home, and then doesn't call the designated evaluation committee, but on 22 March, this lawyer goes into the National Park office, prints the evaluation, the review papers, gives them to the appointed critics, and tells them that here you are, that you criticized, that's where the winners are, here you sign. They refuse to do so because they did not judge it, and it was full of errors and irregularities as well as the way it was filled out. Csaba Szabó will be informed of this. What's gonna happen? After four days, however, the ranking set up by the lawyer will be announced, so that the critics did not sign, so someone forged their names, publish the winners, and to the miracle of those involved in the destruction of the first tender, each of them won. The prosecutor states in this decision that the minutes containing the facts and results of the substantive criticism were signed by the acting lawyer as the chief of the minutes, and that the persons listed as members of the jury did not participate in the evaluation of the applications, and that the evaluation report was not signed and Csaba Szabó was informed thereof. It was concluded that the persons lobbying for the withdrawal of the application were successful in the second round, says the prosecutor in this document. One applicant writes directly - in the case of Attila Kanyok, who was the campaign manager of the lobbying Roland Mengyi - that at Attila Kanyok was found to have abused the above-mentioned deficiency of the tendering system, bt. the management plan submitted by the applicant was the same as that of the other company involved in the tender, but the two applications differed significantly without any reason. However, there was no clear evidence during the investigation that Attila Kanyok had manipulated the results of the tender directly or indirectly through a person capable of influencing the tendering system. And here comes a discussion from this document, as if the prosecutor himself could not bear the fact that, on the basis of what he discovered, he could not prosecute, as he hints that the fact that Attila Kanyok was in contact with Dr. Roland does not in itself make it possible to establish a crime beyond reasonable doubt. In the course of the investigation, neither Attila Kanyok nor Dr. Roland Mengyi could prove that they had been in contact with the persons involved in the conduct and evaluation of the application. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[13.00]] Interesting, so far, it's as if the same prosecutor, who had to write down this shame, said the exact opposite two pages before. Then let us finally see what has happened in this case, after the prosecutor has described this completely, I think, unsuitable filth, which he describes in this 8-page document. Well, please, I quote. He says that the conditions under which the application system is likely to be abused do not in itself base the identification of a criminal offence. In the present case, however, it was found that there was also actual abuse and that some of the proposals were assessed arbitraryly. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. And then, the final conclusion of this will not be believed:. On the basis of the evidence obtained during the investigation described above and thoroughly assessed by the prosecution, it cannot be established that the President of the Bükk National Park or the lawyer Zoltán Hajdú would have acted as a result of direct or indirect influence on the above mentioned or on behalf of other persons, or on behalf of Dr. Csaba Szabó or other official persons. Therefore, there is no legal possibility to establish a criminal offence of abuse of office and any other similar criminal offence of a corruption nature. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Sure. It is reasonable for everyone to believe that the lawyer and the director of the national park, after such a history, I don't know if he took the criticism papers out of hobby or humor, brought them out as winners, and, in addition, abusively, those who lobbyed to destroy the first round of applications. It's obvious that there's either corruption or a misdemeanor abuse, abuse of power. However, this was not accepted by the prosecutor's office, but it was simply a case for private document counterfeiting. Once again, I would like to stress that if someone reads this 8-page document, it also shows what my fellow Members have already talked about here, that prosecutors often act fairly, professionally, with the highest degree of motivation, discovering the cases, writing them down, but for some reason, it is clear from this document that they could not initiate or initiate criminal proceedings. According to all the conclusions, he should have, but he couldn't have done that. In the other cases, the reports have not yet been made, since, in the case of national ground-based applications, the prosecutors simply wrote that they could not commit any abuse of office, because the National Land Fund is not an administrative body, and because it is not an administrative body, so its employees are not considered official persons. And while it was not denied that there was abuse, since those who did the abuse were not officials, they could not have committed any abuse of office in the absence of an official. Therefore, in all cases the complaint was rejected. By the way, this document, in the case of the Bükk National Park, also refers to the fact that the employees, let's say, could not have committed an abuse of office because he was not an official person. In contrast, obviously, a prosecutor cannot do as thorough work as a representative who reads the documents without legal qualifications, so he could not find this point 4 in the Bükk National Park Board's statutes, in which it is stated that the public task of the Bükk National Park Board of Directors is a statutory public authority activity. Yet it is a body of public authority that is legally active, which makes its employees, well, imagine, an official. Therefore, it was not true that a criminal offence committed by an official could not have been committed. All of this shows that the prosecutor's office led by Péter Polt not only initiated cases from political calculation, which my fellow Members have already spoken about here, but also in 2002 and today, it hides cases in accordance with the political interests of Fidesz, skimming cases so that it does not have to press criminal charges in such clear cases. I find that unacceptable. Mr. Attorney General. I don't think you should be running the DA's office on the basis of political motivation. Or if you didn't instruct the prosecutors like this, then you should make sure that those prosecutors who made such mistakes are held accountable. After that hasn't happened, even though we've been talking about this case for over a year, I still have to think that you're behind this. Therefore, your activity is unacceptable, so obviously your report as well. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-12-10-66	Thank you very much. A two-minute speech will be held by Congressman György Szilágyi. Here you go.
u2014-12-10-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It's interesting that Gábor Bellozó said what I really have to agree with. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary is also struggling to ensure that there are no cases and no mischief going through governments. Let me mention one of the following: the heart of Budapest. During the previous governments, they started to apply for, evaluate and similar programs, and then reached the Orbán government. The Orbán government finished the program, i.e. István Tarlós has already completed the program of the heart of Budapest. Yes, there have been abuses in this project. We also filed a complaint, as there were overlaps between the persons who submitted the tender and those who examined the tender. They voted in the same way on the submission of the proposal and on the evaluation of the proposal. This was a criminal act under the laws of that time. The D.A.'s office gave us one sentence: it's not a crime. You may have known in advance, because now there will be no criminal act, because before this House there is the law that you will vote for, that from now on the candidate will be able to judge either his own company, his wife's company or any of them, since the conflict of interest rules have been lifted - but that was still a crime. One sentence: it's not a crime. Jobbik has very good lawyers. I respect these lawyers, I respect their professional work. I can't imagine that if they were bad lawyers, they'd all be [[He's showing me more files.]] It's just the complaints I've filed for the past four years, and you haven't accepted one of them. Not a single one. Each of them felt that these were unfounded complaints, all of them being thrown back. I think it's totally weird. But it is the right of their hearts. We want the executive branch to be completely independent of politics. Once there's a Jobbik government, that's the kind of prosecutor we imagine in this country. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-10-68	Thank you very much. We will continue with the proper speeches. Mr Zoltán Gőgös is coming from the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2014-12-10-69	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, My fellow bellman indicated his problem with the field competition in Borsod County. There's a particular branch of this that I'd like to tell you right now because it's involved with the DA's office. As mentioned here, there was a candidate, well, not one, more, now there is the same on Hortobágy, who applied for a fictitious home address, more precisely here with a fictitious establishment. The Standing Police, the National Bureau of Investigation's Department against Corruption and Administrative Crime, also found that one of the applicants provided false data, thus winning 500 hectares of land and requesting EU support for 500 hectares. The Alert Police have considered that the two cases should be separated, so they have been handed over to professional professionals, the tax and customs department, who are investigating EU subsidies, so they are professionals. This department found that there was a reasonable suspicion of fiscal fraud, since someone with a non-existent, fictitious establishment claimed support, and on the basis of this, this support was paid, and as a suspect, Attila Kanyok was interviewed, who was already mentioned here, the personal secretary of Congressman Roland Mengyi, the Fidesz candidate for mayor of Tiszaújváros. [[13.10]] So once again, the professionals who have established this are professionals, so they are constantly looking at these cases, with very good recon, and thank God, we don't have a lot of trouble with the EU payments because they have caught a lot of people who have tried to do this. After that, Attila Kanyok complained to the D.A. that he had committed no crime, and that he did not wish to make a substantial statement. The prosecutor who reviewed this decision decided that this complaint would stop and terminate the investigation in this case. There are more problems with this: from the same documents, those who have come to a completely different conclusion are the clear experts in this area and have come to a different conclusion by the prosecutor. The biggest problem is that in the explanatory statement there is a sentence that , in connection with the funds from the budget allocated to real land use, there is therefore no financial disadvantage. My bad news is that if someone doesn't have the right to receive support, there is definitely a financial disadvantage, and that is the disadvantage of farmers who have received less money. This is not about billions, I would like to point out, but the system works by dividing the total amount into real claims. Therefore, if this had been rejected, the other farmers would have had more money. Thus, it is not true that there was no financial disadvantage. There has been a financial disadvantage in this case. But there are some very interesting things here in the explanatory statement, which is a little grinning. In the course of the investigation, the Bükk National Park Directorate replied to the request, and the documents attached, it was found that the company whose registered office was within 20 km of the municipality concerned could participate in the land lease application. Although the registered office is not considered to be real, only this designation was possible in the tender procedure as the company's registered office. That's what makes a man a crook. And the facts relating to the false seat registration have been evaluated in the investigation into the crime of counterfeiting of the authentic instrument, which has been indicted. The interesting thing about this is that there is an indictment for forgery, and then, after someone wins 500 hectares with this forged authentic instrument and then claims EU funds of HUF 20 million, it is not considered fraud. I don't think that's true. So I would just like to say that such decisions would not be necessary, so such decisions, because then we would even believe that there are real reasons for lodging a complaint here. There were a lot of people here who complained against suspicion, and I didn't hear any - at least, which would have affected politicians - that, according to the preliminary investigation, the prosecution would have accepted it in this sense. This was not a question here, but in my opinion they made a huge mistake, because this has been precisely investigated, so we have all the paperwork here, which clearly means that it is a fraud if someone wants to obtain EU support with a non-existent establishment. That can't be a question. It's exactly the same fraud, which is why four people are now in custody of non-existent land use, because from here on out, land use is not justified... Now, the question is that this was just registered, but I'm just saying, since then, the NFA has taken this land back. So from now on, you shouldn't have let go of this case, because a failure of the entire application system means that you can cheat, old man, you can log in anywhere, it's true that you don't live, and there's nothing to do with it, but you can still record everything. Because the entire application was only good for these funds, because there was a few thousand forints of rent to be paid, and in the case of 500 hectares there was about 50 million forints of funding. That's a pretty serious story. Of this, let's say, he could only pick up half of it or not even half of it, because the second part was no longer paid for, because they took back the land from him. So I don't understand the logic of this, that the specialized investigating authority clearly states that there's been fraud, then the deliquents go to the D.A.'s office, and he says that I didn't cheat, I didn't confess, I didn't commit a crime, and the D.A. thinks it's okay. And I don't think there is, because there is faith in justice. And, of course, we couldn't complain about that, because if we could complain, I could have written down, say, to the Attorney General, that I didn't agree, that there was no financial disadvantage, because the money was taken from the other farmers, because I already mentioned the retribution, that the amount of money is being paid back legally. So I think this finding was wrong. I think it is clear from this debate today that the prosecution is not impartial in these cases. So if we want a rule of law, I think that this needs to be changed urgently, and everyone has their own responsibility, and I am sure that it is also on the side of legislation. We will make such proposals so that this cannot be done, but we ask that we really take this seriously, because from now on we will have huge problems, I think, and it would not be good to run into. So that's why we've given these real examples, I've quoted them from a decision, I could do it long, but I don't want to waste time. We've had ridiculous decisions at times to report, ridiculous. We'd be happy to stand, we'd stand any time, I've been indicting cases, I've gone anywhere as a witness, we'd be happy to help out in our own field, if you don't have the right professional. But at least don't make it look like things are going to be decided on a political basis here. We would like this to change very urgently, but obviously this was not the case, so we cannot accept this report, of course. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-10-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr György Szilágyi is next for a two-minute speech.
u2014-12-10-71	Thank you very much. I promise you, my last speech, because I feel like there's a little bit of a vibe here that we can say anything, you listen to it, and then you leave, and then everything goes on just as it went on. But to conclude this, in conclusion of my speech, allow a quote from the prosecutor's office, Dr. István Ott István, Attorney General, senior prosecutor, who rejected further investigation into Béla Biszku. He says:. Based on the data of the investigation, so there is no doubt that Béla Biszku has been in contact with Soviet authorities, based on these data the aim was to maintain the social, political and economic system established in Hungary in 1948-49, and to keep the country in the federal system of the Warsaw Treaty. Here's a description of the insubordination, or treason, because that's what it was. After that, I will continue:. It is not possible to establish that the relationship was made in order to violate Hungary's territorial integrity or to eliminate international legal entities, so that this circumstance is the subject of historical political judgement. You should not be judging historical and political judgment, but instead judging categories of criminal law, and since you describe the concept of insubordination, i.e. treason here, and the fact that Béla Biszku's behaviour did not cause much harm to this country, only Soviet troops stationed here for a long time and suppressed Hungarian people, you state that and then say that this is a matter of historical political judgment. Gentlemen, this is a disgrace. Thank you so much for listening. From now on, I'm done, and I feel like it's not a debate and it's not a dialogue, it's just a silence, and it's gonna stay the way it is. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-12-10-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Csaba Gyüre, from the Jobbik Group, is coming to a proper speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-10-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Ladies and gentlemen, By way of derogation from the comments made so far, I would like to start with the Basic Law, also Article 29, which states that the Public Prosecutor's Office is the sole enforcer of the state's criminal claim. So this is the basis for prosecutorial activity, which was defined in the Fundamental Law: the exclusive enforcement of criminal claims. This is a very serious right, a serious constitutional right that the prosecutor's office is entitled to, but it is not only a serious right, it is also an obligation and a huge responsibility on the shoulders of the prosecutor's office, as it follows from this law and from the prosecutor's law that no one else has the right to enforce a criminal claim in Hungary but the prosecution. So the prosecutor's office will decide who is being prosecuted in Hungary, so it will decide who has the chance at all to be convicted of determining the criminal liability of the court and who doesn't; who can practically get out of the jurisdiction of the country, from the jurisdiction of criminal law, because whoever is not prosecuted by the prosecution will not be prosecuted at the latest in the investigative phase, will not be convicted. [[13.20]] For this reason, it is also a huge responsibility, and that is why the prosecution has to conduct itself in such a way that the entire Hungarian population has the confidence to see that both its duty and its responsibility are properly borne. That is why many of my fellow Members have also spoken in today's speeches and in the keynote speeches that have criticised the prosecution for hearing a lot of cases, and unfortunately this is the product of the last 25 years that there have been a lot of cases in Hungary that have upset the public opinion of the entire country, but there have been no concrete measures. The main culprits have not been found, while investigations have been carried out in certain cases, sometimes they have not even been carried out, but then there have not been many cases, that have become accusations, or even if there have been, only very small and small sinners have been captured, and those who organized them in the past have not. But I'm telling you, it's not the problem of the last five years, it's the problem of the last 25 years. We can talk all the way here about the disappearance and absorption of the party property of the MSZP, the re-enactment of those, the sudden enrichment of certain politicians after the change of regime, the becoming billionaires, motorway constructions, which were the most expensive motorways in the region, but also railway constructions and so on. We can talk about when we have seen and read everywhere that in some cases mayors or politicians who have decision-making powers call them 10 percent or 20 percent by the population, because they know that someone will receive some kind of assignment if they send certain bribes there. And when we mentioned it here at any time, opposition parties, we were always given in Parliament to press charges, to add evidence. You just have to see that we as parliamentary representatives are not the investigating authority, we are not the ones who have the police at your disposal, who bring the evidence in this way by the people who have grown up in it for decades have the right experience. So we don't have the investigative powers to bring these things in. That is why it would be very important for the prosecution to act on its own initiative in these outstanding cases, and many recent examples have been mentioned by our fellow Members, only in an exemplary manner. There has already been talk about the reconstruction of the Margaret Bridge, which was also mentioned by my fellow Member Schiffer and my fellow Member Gábor Staudt, about the traffikmutyi, public-machine applications, public procurement applications, the suspicious reconnaissance of state land, the billion-dollar VAT fraud and so on. And what happens in these cases? What we see is that the media picks them up, the media takes care of it, and what results do we get? Technically, none. There are no results in these. We'll talk about it, the media will write it, and then years later, decades later, they'll forget it, just as oil issues were forgotten in the past, and people won't deal with it the same way. Those of you who have collected billions of these will sit quietly on their laurels. And what about this, what kind of image of the prosecutor's office, what kind of image of the government of Hungary, the Hungarian Parliament, will they say, what kind of country do we live in? Are we living in a banana republic where cases aren't explored, cases investigated? If we're talking about a corruption case, that if politicians are involved, it's not gonna happen, because they're gonna take it somewhere, and it's gonna disappear, and it's gonna embezzle. And then we heard that someone here mentioned that if someone had come from Mars and listened to today's speeches, it would seem that if there were a very, very nasty current governing party here who has introduced corruption in Hungary over the last four and a half years, which they have deeply condemned, and did not talk about the years before they were on the government when we heard a lot of corruption cases, where they have not been investigated in the same way, they have not been revealed. When they talk about, and here they want to hold the Attorney General and everyone who has done nothing in this area, and we hear these stories here in a line of abuse, how the court is constantly acquitted, because the prosecution is going in a different direction, not an activity; here I do not want to defend the prosecution, I just want to show you how much this opposition party is playing on the fact that people's political memory extends only for a limited period of time, and does not look at what happened 8 years, 15 years ago, as if there were a party here that did virtually nothing. I do not want to refer to anything else in this regard, but I would like to give an example of the last four-year term, which I think was rather scandalous and was an event of the last four-year term, and this was the T/6391 bill, which was about amending the parliamentary law, and for which I would like to point out that it was Amendment 9. The essence of this is that we talk about corruption, and here at the time of the change of regime, in 1990 there were legislative amendments in which the Hungarian Parliament had the opportunity to investigate them in major corruption cases. He could set up case committees in the event that the police could no longer make it, because politics had put down the barriers on which he could not move forward, either with the prosecution or with the police, and at least in that case the opposition had the right to set up a committee of inquiry and investigate these corruption cases. Then, in March 2012, it was the MSZP politicians who submitted a bill in which the possibility of these committees of inquiry was significantly reduced. I would therefore like to read by name who the politicians were: István Ujhelyi, Tamás Harangozó, Mónika Lamperth, Attila Mesterházy, Gábor Simon and Gergely Bárándy, who submitted the bill under the parliamentary law 24. § (1) which states that Parliament may set up an individual committee of inquiry only in matters which cannot be clarified by interpellation, question or immediate question of public interest. So they've narrowed it down, which means you can put an interpellation, an immediate question about anything, so what they don't think is clear about, so they've narrowed it down here. It shall not set up a committee of inquiry for the establishment of specific legal responsibilities; the investigation shall not cover cases which are the subject of ongoing criminal, criminal, criminal, civil or administrative proceedings. So what happened? Since then, in virtually all cases of corruption that arise here in Parliament, in which we would like to set up a committee of inquiry, the two-thirds majority will wipe it out with reference to this legislation. And what did we experience? The fact that the MSZP has submitted this bill, this amendment proposal, is only one thing because it is not mandatory to accept it, and we have also seen in the practice of the last four years that practically whatever the opposition's proposal was, it was swept down by a two-thirds majority. Well, it is a coincidence that there was a point where the will of the two-thirds majority had just met, and the will of the former governing majority, in order to forget the possibility of investigating past crimes here in Parliament, so that we could not set up committees on corruption, and I see that it is in the interests of both parties, which have governed Hungary here in the last 25 years, together. Unfortunately, there's no change in that. That is why corruption can live today. That is why there is no real, powerful organisation in the prosecutor's office that would have the task of exploring the current political issues that many of my fellow Members have said here and referring to Croatia and other countries where they can indeed function well. Here, at the moment when the investigation is in conflict with political interests, it will be examined whether it is in whose interest we can go on or not. As long as this works in Hungary, we cannot talk about the elimination of corruption in Hungary, unfortunately Hungary will sink into corruption here in the middle of Europe, and this needs to be changed. Mr. Attorney General, I wish you a very good job on this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-10-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Gergely Bárándy is coming from the MSZP Group to speak again. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-10-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It is almost obvious that we are approaching the end of the debate. On the one hand, it's a natural thing, but on the other hand, I have to say, unfortunately, because we haven't heard much of reactions, as we do. We're used to this from the Fidesz Members, and I wouldn't mention it, but I'm sorry, not from the Attorney General either. The closing point is another, Mr Attorney General, of course, but you know that you have experienced in this world, and it is its peculiarity that it is not a debate, but that it can no longer be answered. A thought that I would like to add to my fellow Member Gyure's speech, and then, indeed, I would just end this debate on our part. Congressman! What you said about the committees of inquiry, there was no intention in what you said. [[13.30]] If something proves that, because I think that if I make a statement like that, then it is fitting that I try to prove it with something, then it is that we have always been partners in setting up committees of inquiry, Congressman. I do not think that you can talk about a trend where the Socialist Group has not agreed to set up committees of inquiry. This narrowing was all about what could be clarified with interpellation, with an immediate question, not having a committee of inquiry on the subject; therefore, Mr President, on the subject in which an interpellation question or any other type of question could not be submitted, but which could be clarified in such cases, i.e. which could be easily answered. The fact that this rule is used abusively by the fidesz majority, on the one hand, I can say that it is not our fault, the other thing I can say is that, in hindsight, knowing this practice, I am truly sorry that we have tabled this amendment, my honourable fellow Member. But believe me, that's not how we wanted it, that's not the horse we wanted, is it? And this is clearly demonstrated by our attitude in the matter of committees of inquiry. In other words, unfortunately, we have come up with an amendment that has given us the opportunity to practice Fidesz misinterpreting this by preventing the setting up of committees of inquiry. I acknowledge that, and if you think this is a mistake, it is true, but don't read it into our heads, my fellow Member, I ask that we oppose the setting up of committees of inquiry or the investigation of these matters. Not even because basically these committees of inquiry, which have stood up so far, have been investigating our activities. Of course, they were set up by the Fidesz MEPs, it doesn't matter whether they can be clarified by interpellation or not, so in Hungarian, they would have remained the cases that are investigating the activities of the current government, which, by the way, didn't stand up for a single committee of inquiry in the last four years, and I guess they won't be in the next four. But it's certainly not in our interest that this doesn't happen. That's it. As far as the debate is concerned, I would like to highlight, and I do not wish to repeat, what I or my fellow Members have said earlier: these examples, which we have listed, are not, to put it mildly, thought to be a day of complaint, but in support of the statements I have made in my speech as general speaker, and which, by the way, I should like to say, has been expressed as criticism in a comprehensive manner by my fellow Member, Mr Belló. We wanted to show through these that when we talk about the fact that we cannot evaluate the prosecution's activities as impartial and we cannot say that there were no political motivations for certain matters, we do not want to say this as a political horse-zung, but, indeed, with conviction and examples. I think it is worth at least reconsidering what these speeches contain and what cases they have been about, what results and how the prosecution's procedure is classified by the court. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Dear Assistant Attorney General, Lords! I know all of you, two of them, and I appreciate and know your criminal skills, and I think I know them relatively well, and I've been watching the speeches, and I've seen them come from any faction, and I've found something in it as a criminal lawyer that I can object to. And what I can tell you is that if I were to answer such a question, it is possible to cling to it that it is not accurate from a criminal or criminal law point of view, it does not stop that way. However, I would like to ask you not to do so, if we are no longer arguing and I am forced to advance certain thoughts. Don't do that, Mr. Attorney General. Because it doesn't change the point. It doesn't change the point, it doesn't change how these cases turned out, how these procedural acts evolved, and it doesn't change the fact that these examples justify the fact that, as I said in my two-minute speech, the prosecution can find the splinters on one side and the beam on the other. I am truly sorry that I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that there has not been a parliamentary debate on this issue. I think he wouldn't have given the Attorney General a hard time arguing with Members of Parliament. This is the first time in the first five years that Parliament has actually been able to exercise its powers of control over the prosecution. Unfortunately, and I have also said this in my speech as the lead speaker, that the possibility of these has been reduced to such a extent that there is virtually no effective control mechanism and that it makes it virtually impossible to fulfil the real control function. To ask the Attorney General twice in two minutes and twice in one minute, I do not think that he is an effective method of control. We could now have a debate here without a time frame. Without a time frame, we told you all the cases and the excuses and criticisms that we thought were right. We would have liked to have had our objections in the debate, because obviously the representative of the Prosecutor's Office has an opinion on this and has some critical comments, and I am also sure that the word "rejection" or the word "loosing" will often appear in the reply of the Attorney General. It would have been nice if we could have talked about this, and it wasn't one-sided communication. However, what I would ask of the prosecutors is that these criticisms, which apparently some of which are not considered to be specifically justified, may be thought of by others that there is some truth in it, so think about them. Think about it, because maybe this way we can get a little ahead of ourselves in order to change this practice. I sincerely hope that no one will take what we have said as a personal matter, but as speeches and speeches that are sometimes driven by anger, I would be happy to acknowledge, but they can still be well founded; speeches that are partly about criticism of the past period, but perhaps in a greater part about our desire and wish for this practice to change. We would like to say that when the Attorney General is in office, whether you are now in office, or your successor stands up here on the bench, and says that the prosecution operates in accordance with the law, that everything is in order, and that everything is legal, then I can stand up there, on the bench, and I can say, Mr. Attorney General, thank you very much, I think so. That's our goal, that's our plan, that's our hope. And the reviews that we've said are, once again, not just about the past and the recollection of past grievances, but about the fact that it might be able to change in the future. I'm not a naive man, I've been a Member of Parliament for almost a decade, but I still have faith in me, and I want to be a Member until all my illusions go away. And I still have the illusion that this method, this operating model, can be done differently. I will also ask Mr Attorney General to do so, and I will listen very carefully and with great curiosity to his reply. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-10-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. A two-minute speech will be held by Congressman Gábor Staudt. Here you go.
u2014-12-10-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to protect my fellow Member Csaba Gyure very briefly. Gergely Bárándy said that the initiative they took to tighten the rules on the setting up of committees of inquiry may have been something that my fellow Member said that they regretted or did not think it would happen this way. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy nods.]] Well, you know, the problem is that you suggested this because I obviously don't know who the draftsman was, so that the eight-year MSZ government can be effectively controlled or even before Parliament. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You're not serious, are you?]] [[13.40]] they were afraid, only this turned to the contrary, when they ruled out that the crimes of Fidesz could not be investigated. And that's the problem we've been talking about, the only way to deal with it is that if corruption exists, regardless of party standing and any coloring, then action must be taken. If we can't change this mentality, we can't move forward. So the MSZP also has to face the hope that it will face - obviously it is up to you - that in the past very serious crimes have been committed against the Hungarian nation, which must first be confessed, and then there may be something new or about future vows. This, of course, does not exonerate the sins of Fidesz, but what has happened to the committees of inquiry is a complete and very good illustration of what has been going on in this country for the past 25 years. [[Attila Móring József takes his place as notary.]] The mentality that people put on the street, pointing to one side or another, is not corruption that hurts the other, but that they are not stealing. And I'm afraid that people are very right about that, and until we can change this attitude that we see here, people's opinions will unfortunately not change. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-10-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with the proper speeches. Mr Zoltán Magyar is coming from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2014-12-10-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I would like to present to this House some specific matters that I have had the opportunity to deal with in recent years. I've told you here several times, but I haven't had a chance to do this with the DA's office, the case of Lake Fertő, which I once again recommend to you. Trianon left us about 6,000 hectares of reeds from Lake Fertő, nearly 100 percent of which was privatized in 2006 by a near-SZDSZ entrepreneur with the right of permanent free nurturing. He's an amazing model, and I've never met anyone who would've told me that he'd exist otherwise, but he's done it. The little left is the 180 hectares, which remained due to an administrative error in the management of the Hungarian state - they forgot to transfer these few hectares to the Sopron Land Office. The case is complicated enough, obviously there is no way to go into all its details, but I have been trying to achieve results in this case since 2010 so that normal conditions can be restored, the Hungarian families living locally, working for decades and generations to do their job. The Hungarian State should also benefit, as the European Union will otherwise receive Nadification Support, as is the logic of the area aid, and therefore it would be sufficient for the ecological status of the lake to be financed and maintained by the state. Not to mention that tourism does not exist on the Hungarian side and raises many, many other problems. I also filed a complaint in this case, of course, because the public authorities, whether it be a government office, three ministries, any body I've contacted, water management, environmental authority, so no matter what we're talking about, everyone has said that I'm right, we're right, and this is an unsustainable state, and they haven't moved on for years, so I turned to you. Since I've tried a number of ways, we've finally come to the conclusion that environmental damage might be the case that would stand up for you here, and that it would be worth investigating for you, and that there was some amazing reason why you rejected my suggestion. I also ask that this be reviewed and that they try to move in this direction, because Lake Fertő is part of the world heritage, and at present it is in the process of dying, that the fish no longer receive enough oxygen during periods that would otherwise be very important to them, and that negation does not happen in practice. Almost every year, this company only took up the support by not making the delivery, so there was no nading at all for many years, resulting in an accelerated recharge of the lake. Much has already been said about the case of state lands. I have also encountered a number of cases where you should have acted, and I ventured to suggest the introduction of secret service methods here as well, as I have confirmed from rumors, but from so many places that I myself believe and confirm that there are or may be county NFA leaders who, for up to ten years in advance, ask the relevant applicant for the area payment in his pocket, and after the introduction of this amount, the person can receive up to 200 hectares of state land for 20 years, or he can keep it, because we have also heard examples of this. Of course, it is very difficult to find evidence of these, and you have the means to do so, and I encourage you to do so, because how we deal with state land, with all of our common assets, I believe that it is a good indicator of the current state of corruption in a country and also of the state of democracy. I also took action on the matter of ragweed. It is well known that, in relation to 1 percent of taxpayers' offerings, the state, let's say, has asked for funds for the protection of parlagweed, and there were taxpayers so bona fide - which we thank them, of course - that they offered a great deal of money for this, and, as it turned out, most of it was spent by the Ministry on severance payments, scones, and off-road vehicles, of course, when they got busted - and in this, I filed a complaint - they promised to replace some of it, otherwise, because it wasn't the total amount. Here, too, I believe that the argument I received from the prosecutor's office in response to the fact that this money was not public money or stolen, because it was not actually stolen, it was only spent for a completely different purpose, so there is nothing for you to investigate, I believe, that this is not going to hold up either, because taxpayers have not given their one-per cent offer to what this money was spent on. But I could also mention the case of Győr, unfortunately, my county seat has now become a synonym for corruption. The mayor of Győr, as it turned out, was in regular contact with the black metal mafia circle - they have a common lawyer with whom they regularly go on luxury trips - who have been known to forget to pay billions of forints. Some of the gang's still in custody. This also raises concerns that I believe could be clarified by secret service methods in a few hours. What I do have is my biggest heartache, and I really need to be told about it, it's a matter of pocket contracts. The government's confessions here are also about the fact that some 600, 800 thousand hectares are certainly affected by this case. There were very serious promises that the D.A. would be involved in the exploration of pocket contracts and that we would put an end to the socialist period when we didn't even deal with this issue, and it wasn't even worth talking about, because they didn't seem to understand what our problem was. However, in 2010, you were elected - I am not talking about the prosecutor's office, I am talking about Fidesz - by exploring the issue of pocket contracts, and there will be serious progress here, by ending the Austrian and foreign advance, and by what an important role the prosecutor's office will play in this. We have very different experiences. Mrs Loránt Hegedűs can confirm this, as she has also reported in several cases that we are getting the same few-page reply from the D.A.'s office, which is quite amazing. I can summarize it in simple Hungarian language by telling us that you do not understand what the problem is, you do not have a man for it, and you do not think, let us say, that it is a crime, while showing off the specifics, and we have put such cases on the table for thousands of hectares. So no one wants to explain to me that the contract doesn't come from nothing when you find someone in the name of a homeless man from Tatabánya, say, 300 hectares, who, by accident, is in debt to a resident from Munich for a few ten million euros. I think that, in such cases, the prosecution should take immediate action, and not us, Parliamentary representatives, should be searching the land offices, snooping through and bringing to you the property that was supposed to be suspicious on the basis of rumors, but I believe that there should be a small team of three or four of us in the DA's office, the government should be instructed by a simple decree to send the land offices a copy of the suspicious property forms to this little team at the DA's office. I think that, even if not for all areas, it would be a hundred thousand hectares that could be recovered in some way in a few months, but at least the procedures could be launched. Compared to this, I can count on one hand how many cases I know, and in general, foreign parties have framed each other, and there is no such thing as, let's say, the D.A.'s office has come to conclusions that could have led to the discovery. [[13.50]] I therefore urge you to take decisive action on this issue. The government is supposed to have support at communication level to investigate such cases. In practice, as I said, we unfortunately did not experience any of this. I hope that if the D.A.'s office is interested in this direction, then perhaps the government will be more receptive. I had the opportunity to attend a meeting of an inter-ministerial committee, where they sought to explore these matters or to facilitate the discovery of these matters, and to propose various legislative changes. This inter-wallet committee was also attended by a representative of the prosecutor's office, and there I heard some forward-looking, good proposals, which, however, did not eventually go under, or even if they were incorporated into our legal system, they function with very little efficiency. The practice shows, I say, that of these 6-8 thousand hectares, with the exception of a few hundred hectares, we have failed to recover the land for the Hungarian people, even though I think it is our absolute national destiny. After all, let us consider in the situation that the deplorable land law adopted by the Parliament, if even Brussels is to be destroyed, and let us face it, that we are on this path, we will lose even the questionable advantage of the current land law, which, although it has not solved the pocket contracts, I would stress this, but at least it has reached the condition that foreign people, who are not yet known as owners, dare not register their property in the land offices. So it's at least frozen the condition, which, I say it again, I can't underline it, is not progress at all, and it's outrageous that the second two-thirds cycle has only come this far, but the fact is that mass legalizations have not yet begun. At the same time, if the infringement procedure in Brussels is really going to destroy the land law or remove these passages, I can say that in a few days foreigners may be able to legalise these hundreds of thousands of hectares, because otherwise there is no other legal barrier. I'd like to move on to secret service methods here. If the small team within the DA's office is supposed to stand up for these cases and do their job effectively, still hasn't recovered enough land, then I suggest you take a look at not a dozen law firms that have been specialised in this area for decades. They made their first millions by playing the Hungarian land for these foreigners by clearly knowing the current legislation, they were able to conduct these transactions. Nothing else would be needed, in order to recover another few hundred thousand acres, except that these law firms are being intercepted, or I don't know what secret service methods they use to inform them. You'll be very surprised at the contracts in those lawyer vaults that have been resting here for decades now. And those few corrupt lawyers, I think they should be where we want them. So they should never practice again, and they should be in prison for several years in the attempt to re-enact the Hungarian land, the Hungarian national treasure, so I would like these two proposals to be adopted in connection with the pocket contracts. I also wish you a good job overall, but I very much hope that, in the specific cases I have listed and in general in the case of pocket contracts, I will no longer have to give my criticisms of this next report, but I will be able to commend you for the fact that you have actually taken action in these matters. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-10-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member György Szilágyi has applied for a proper speech from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-10-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Although I said I wouldn't speak, I have to respond to Gergő Bárándy's speech. Congressman, I respectfully believe what you're saying that you didn't make this bill with bad intentions. It is only here that I would draw the attention of the pro-government representatives to the responsibility of the power for what laws it makes, because it is possible to say that it will bring in laws that it does not have bad intentions, but it cannot be given the loophole, because it is not eternal in the same way as in the two-thirds of the power that they make, and it may not be with bad intentions, but they will give us the opportunity to use it for evil purposes. Closing thoughts on the prosecution: In 2010, after the so-called cab revolution, the new Parliament was formed, and the Movement for Jobbik Hungary was included in the National Assembly, then the country was in a very bad position. The country was not in a bad situation because one would mention the economic crisis or mention poverty, which was not the main problem in this country. His main problem, unfortunately, remains to this day, is that public confidence has been shaken in politicians, the police, justice and almost everything. That's the public confidence that should have been restored. We also said in 2010 that the main purpose of this Parliament, the then formed Parliament, must be to restore public confidence, faith in the police, faith in the truth, faith in people and politicians. I feel that this has not been very successful in the last four years. Although we have been discussing specific cases here with the prosecution, but believe me, Mr. Attorney General, one of the most important roles in restoring public trust could be the prosecution. It could be the prosecutor's office that could get people to believe that there is justice in this country, that there are laws in this country, and that justice systems work in such a way that no one can do anything, and that it depends not only on someone being convicted of having money, having political influence, or in what position they are in, but also on everyone living in this country according to equal laws, equal rights and equal obligations for everyone, whether they are poor, rich, influential or not influential. In my opinion, this public trust can be restored by the D.A.'s office in the first place. After all, if there really is an independent prosecutor's office in the country, which looks only at the cases and does not look at the persons involved in the case in question, what position these persons are in, the economic or social status of these persons in the country, but looks specifically at the case, and does not care who the people involved in this case are, then you can have the greatest impact on restoring public confidence. After all, if the citizen sees that it doesn't matter if he's a politician or a powerful economic operator, but he committed a crime, and the prosecution is acting hard against him, then people can return to their trust and return to their faith. In addition, they can play a huge role in the renewal of the political set, because as long as politicians believe that they can do anything in this country, they don't even have to hide, let's say, the wealth gains that have been revealed in recent times, because I'm not being harmed, because I'm a politician, the D.A. won't act against me, because as soon as they see who I say I belong to or what political position I am, they won't be investigating me, they can feel they can do everything. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] If politicians didn't feel that, if they felt that the D.A. was always acting against them, and it didn't matter if they were pro-government, opposition or what kind of politician they were dealing with, they would consider what kind of actions they were involved in. I think maybe one of the most important roles in this country is the prosecution. I too - no matter how many errors I have listed in the last few minutes and how many cases I have disagreed with the prosecution - feel that there is a maximum of every basis for you to play in Hungary today, which should be played today by the prosecutor's office, since you have no professional objection to your operation and ability. Here, it is only a matter of independence from the policy of the prosecutor's office that we wish for perseverance. I know it's not easy, I know this is going to lead you through battles, but to this fight I wish you all perseverance, strength, and will at all that the D.A.'s office is really going to do the independent, very hard prosecutor's work that this country needs both in the fight against corruption and in other cases. So I would like to wish to you that Hungary should have an independent and very hard prosecutorship within a very short period of time. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[14.00]]
u2014-12-10-82	Thank you very much. Welcome. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. Speak up, Congressman István Szávay, Jobbik. Here.
u2014-12-10-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Just give me one more easy subject at the end, actually, because I wanted to ask someone a long time ago what they might think about it; I may not be able to get an answer to it now, but at least it will be said. There was a lot of talk about public procurement, corruption, different companies, how money goes, how it doesn't go. One thing was not mentioned, or at least I was overlooked by the press, or how these questions appear in the press, or how they do not appear, why they appear in certain cases, and why they do not appear, for example, and how they relate to what kind of companies place completely meaningless and unrealistic advertisements in certain press products. What do I mean? The question arises, and even the question is whether you, Mr High Prosecutor, have the question at all - of course, this may not have the legal evidentiary or relevance, but it is worth looking at in certain cases - that companies dealing with matters that, to put it mildly, are not targeting the average Hungarian or the population, so why do they spend many, many, many serious millions - we do not really know how much - to advertise themselves. Why should Strabag advertise itself on the Index, for example? We can see all kinds of small windows, all kinds of ads, we can buy, we can be targeted by buying pots for Christmas and cell phones, and there's a Strabag ad. Should we buy two kilometers of highways for someone in the family, fellow Members? Or what's the point? The other - to give one more example, and I can't really answer my questions, I just really wanted to say this for a few sentences - is my favorite: recently in the Weekly Answer, Augusta advertises Italian military helicopters. Who are you trying to target? Imagine, I'll buy the Weekly Answer, I'll start looking at it - but I can tell you another newspaper - and then né, má, but good, here's an Italian Augusta military helicopter, I'm thinking about buying one for my mom for Christmas. Therefore, we feel the irrational or unviableness of these questions! I would be very curious, for example, if we could not soon, say, in the next one or two years, in relation to these specific matters, in some public procurement case, whether in the case of defence or in other areas, where it might be worth examining why these companies considered it important for the public to advertise their products which were not intended for the population at all, such as motorways or Italian military helicopters. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-10-84	Thank you. Honourable Members, Again, I wonder if anyone else would like to comment. [[No signal.]] No. In this case, as no further speeches have been made, the joint general debate is closed. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Attorney General Péter Polt, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Attorney General. I would like to remind you that you have a maximum of 30 minutes. You have the floor.
u2014-12-10-85	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, We're at the end of the Marathon meeting. I've listened very carefully to your reactions. I'm sorry I only have 30 minutes. They raised a lot of things and raised a lot of concrete issues. I suppose you don't expect me to give you a detailed answer to all the cases here, for a number of reasons, on the one hand, because of the time constraints, and on the other hand, I hope you realize that these cases are not on the table of the Attorney General, it's hardly expected that every one of these hundreds of thousands of cases will land on my desk every year, and I'm not the administrator of any of them. I can, however, promise, and we will do that we will respond in writing to all the matters raised here, to the Member, to the lady who brought them up, so I hope that this is an appropriate response to the points raised here. I'll try to get in line, but, of course, many people have asked the same questions, so I'm not going to repeat my answer to everyone, and like I said, I can't even comment on everything. Perhaps it is important to note that there have been a lot of political arguments here, which is that it has left the speaker's mouth several times in political and political terms. I would like to stress that I do not want to respond to this, nor can I react, that the prosecution does not carry out, or carry out, political activity without any policy or political nature in accordance with the provisions of the Fundamental Law or of the laws, and that there is virtually no legal possibility for this, but I do not think that the nature of the work it does make it possible either. I am glad that more people have said that the prosecutor's office is doing well, and they have added, of course, that 99 percent - or I don't know how many - are doing well, as Mr Bárándy said. I would like to say that the terms you have used in all kinds of fists and other respects are a profound violation of the honor of the entire D.A.'s office, and I refuse to do so in my name and on their behalf. For the record, if you're just looking at the cases that you've brought up or others, almost 50 percent of them are directly involved with the DA's office in these cases. Count it, please. [[Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs will be replaced in the notary seat by Adam Mirkóczki.]] I think that one more thing needs to be put ahead, and that sounds very good, especially from Mr Barándy's mouth, who has repeatedly stressed that he is a criminal lawyer and speaks to him accordingly. You said that what you are saying here is not your own individual opinion - and that has been emphasised by others - but the facts that have been well confirmed by the courts. I know of only one case, maybe two - I think two - when the court actually gave the prosecution, so to speak, this kind of criticism. You quoted them for a long time. I would like to say that there is a final judgment which established responsibility for the prosecution charge, i.e. an exemption. Otherwise, this can be natural, because if it were not, then there would be no need for courts, then the prosecution could be the ultimate organization. So it's also natural for the court to decide against the prosecution. But to base it on this, the prosecution's bias, I think it might be a bit excessive, especially if we look at the fact that there was a court in this one case, the Metropolitan Court, which passed the opposite sentence, and in this case, so to speak, a serious sentence of imprisonment. Perhaps I hope, at least, that you do not think that the referee is also very biased and politically influenced. There is no final judgment in all other cases. I would like to ask that we may have to wait for final judgments. You mentioned the General case. There's no final judgment. Not only is there no final judgment in it, but the court order repealing the judgment at first instance lists for a long time the serious infringements committed by the court at first instance and the reasons for which that judgment had to be annulled. [[14.10]] I would like to say that there is no final judgment in the other cases, which you have listed; it would also be good if we waited until the final word is spoken by the court. I would add that we are not leading such statistics, which you are leading, to look at the indictment, that this is 50 percent or 90 percent; you, of course, said that in matters of a political nature, 50 percent - there are no political issues. I can imagine that in some groups of cases, such as very difficult to prove corruption, there is less than 96 percent in the case, but this is not because in any way these cases would be treated differently. No, they're treated the same way. I think you've been involved in many of these, many times, with others, in newspaper articles, reading statements about how these burdened people were forced to give evidence. It's a crime, a serious crime, and I think they need to be dealt with. I would like to say and indicate that every official who becomes aware of such a serious crime must press charges, in particular, to the courts that are acting. I don't know about it, and if I don't know about it, then it's probably true that any court of inquiry would have filed a complaint in this regard; and if it hadn't, it would not simply be a breach of its duty, but it might be in other respects, if it so pleases, that the infringement might arise. As far as the timing is concerned, things got very mixed up here. I often didn't know that I was being criticized by the D.A., the D.A. In many cases, he brought up cases where I wasn't even the Attorney General, so I could hardly be involved in it personally. But I'm sure that whether I was or I wasn't, there was no sort of political timing. The issue of the leaks has been affected by several people, and we have examined it several times for others. I would like to say that we should look at it at some point, and it would be good to see if the cases in which various information has come to light - on-going matters - where they have been and who have been involved with them. You know, if we're gonna see cases where the D.A.'s office has been investigating and the D.A.'s office has handled these cases, we're not gonna find much of a case where this information would have gone out. However, where the prosecution has not only acted and the case is not classified, I add - this is a very important thing - the prosecution can hardly be held responsible for this. I would add that when it comes to a classified case, it's a felony, it's a felony. In these cases, we are going to proceed, and I believe that where possible, we have achieved results. So much perhaps, and perhaps I will return to what Congressman Bárándy has said. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I'm sorry I won't be able to respond.]] Follow-up standard control has been mentioned by several people. I think that it is possible to use this tool if it is a law which, from a professional point of view, does not in some way correspond to the provisions of the Fundamental Law. Of course, this can be brought to the attention of the Attorney General; if such a serious appeal is made, we will always examine this and I can say that I will then submit the request for ex post standard control. Indeed, in 2013 - and I am already responding to Mr Staudt, who also raised ex post norm control among others - 1100 corruption cases became known in 2013. I believe that this is indeed an indication of an improvement in reconnaissance. I do not doubt that there are not many corruption cases that are not registered; obviously we must work to be more effective. We don't have data collections that have been held accountable to pro-government representatives, but I do know because we've been looking at this, just now that there are a lot of civil servants, civil servants, so if you like, he was an employee of the government, who has been prosecuted. In the last year, there have been 234 such loads in public administration, 55 in other public bodies, and the line can continue. Several people mentioned the disbarment case. I would like to say that the prosecutor's office is doing its job in this case, as are the investigating authorities, and if there is a corruption case here that can be identified and proved in an appropriate way, then this will go to the prosecution department, even as well as the questions raised by András Horváth. This investigation is currently under way, there has also been a suspect interrogation, there is no end to the case, and it may also be possible to merge it with other cases. As far as wealth is concerned, I can say, and this has also been the case for specific persons, that if there is a case in criminal proceedings where there is no source of the wealth found, this must, of course, be investigated, there are the bodies involved. In many cases, we have initiated an analysis of wealth, and we hope that the results of this will be achieved sooner or later. Appearances: We really need to take care of appearances and good reputation, and everyone has a responsibility in this, including us, others, and the press. In itself, the fact that the Prime Minister or prime ministers have not been or have not been convicted here, as opposed to Croatia, does not mean that justice and justice are in a much worse position than in Croatia. There could be a list of countries, which are often referred to in Western Europe, where there are also no such suspects. You can be accused and convicted if you have the right legal conditions. I believe that in Hungary, too, if there are such conditions, it does not matter whether someone is wearing a prime minister or other bridle. I think the prosecution's efficiency is adequate. We are not satisfied with it either - I say to Mr Staudt - but it is not just about how much money the prosecutor's office receives or what number it is. Of course, this depends on other reasons, but the money we have received is primarily intended to carry out increased additional tasks, not only to increase efficiency in itself. I think - here also referred to the Chief Prosecutor of the capital - that it is possible to draw exactly the opposite conclusions from what you have said. We also try to deal with small-value cases, and we must act naturally. The police and the D.A.'s office often got mixed up here, and I don't want to keep them all sorted out right now, and the D.A.'s office has a responsibility in police procedures, but given the hundreds of thousands of cases, obviously, surveillance can't cover every tiny point. [[14.20]] One important question was raised by the Member, the EU Prosecutor's Office. The Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office is not in any contradiction with Parliament's subsidiarity decision, on the contrary, we are looking for the very opportunities to create this prosecutor's organisation by means of a consensus as broad as possible, but also expressed by the Hungarian Parliament. I would not comment on the questions that Congressman Schiffer has raised as to whether the government would be subject to a better or an independent prosecutor's office. I think that both are state-of-the-art solutions. The current basic constitutional solution was supported and regulated by the independent prosecutor's office, and the Venice Commission concluded that this regulation and operating principles were in line with the rule of law. I don't think interpellation is appropriate. It is not against me that we must argue in this, but with the Constitutional Court, which has said so. As far as immunity is concerned, I dealt with it a lot, and I wrote a book about it. If the congressman reads it, he'll see my opinion from there. The appearances must, of course, be granted. Who goes where in his spare time, in his private life is also important, I agree with the Member. I have to consider these, too, but I believe that this does not undermine impartiality and independence at all. On the issue of the legislative initiative, I would like to say that we are initiating legislation. I just want to give you an example. That's the last time I checked with the Btk. It was an amendment to the so-called "gratitude money," which, in our view, was aimed at a clearer and clearer legislative environment. Otherwise, we are very active in codification committees, so the already adopted Btk. as in the legislation being prepared, whether it be Be. or Pp., but the same is true of the already accepted Ptk. I think transparency is very important for the prosecution. That's what Congressman Schiffer said. I think that we have made progress over the past period, for example, with Transparency International, we have adopted a joint declaration on this. I don't think 96 percent of the arraignment is a concern. The reason why 96 percent is so high, of course that does not explain it, is because this is the legal environment, as has been shown. On the other hand, it is also debated - but then it will be a contradiction - that the prosecution will only charge about 50 percent of the cases sent to it by the prosecution and otherwise take other measures. That's because, by the law of legality, you have to press charges if you're convinced that the crime and the defendant committed it. I do not say that life is a matter of concern or concern. I think that this is a question of legal regulation, and it is imposed by the court. It's the same with regard to pre-trial arrest. Several specific cases have been raised. I'm only going to say one or two of these things, which I also have specific knowledge of. The Key Price case remains in court for a long time; of course, we are also interested in closing it as soon as possible. I'd like to tell you that there was an investigation into subway 4 and Margaret Bridge. At the same time, the investigation is ongoing in the trade and NAV cases mentioned above. Perhaps it would be worth waiting for the results of these, and then we can discuss them. On several occasions, it has been suggested that the prosecution should follow the press news and investigate on the basis of them, and even that it may be necessary to lay down a legal obligation to do so. Of course, if there is such a legal obligation, we will comply with it, as we do with all other legal obligations. But the reason I ask is, if there is no such legal obligation, how the prosecutor should choose between the thousands of news published in the press, and whether the subject of criticism will not be why he chose it, why he did not choose it, or why he did not notice it, why he did not notice it. It would be nice to have such considerations. Several times, the case of disbarment and the request for legal assistance in this matter was raised. I can tell you that, of course, we're going to be on this case as well. We have already said the steps we have taken, and we will tell you everything else if we take further steps. Congressman Bell. I think that it is necessary to reject the idea that there will be any procedure under construction or party political influence here, either at the High Prosecutor's Office or at the Central Investigator's Attorney General's Office. I am sure that neither in the cases you mentioned nor in the cases you mentioned, be it the Simon case, the Kovács case or the case of your fellow Member. [[Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó laughs.]] You mentioned the traff cases - I didn't laugh either, Congressman, when you said some serious things and sometimes less serious things. So we are also in the process of trade-related matters, and I think that prosecutors are still responsible for the handling of cases, and we do not need to have a specific responsibility to do so, even if this is a personal threat. I would like to make another comment on others. Congressman Barándy may have mentioned in his closing statement that I should not deal with such small questions in my answer that I am not legally certain that what has been raised here fits. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's not quite how it was said!]] I think my job is to take into account every detail of the law, the legality, and to deal with whether it's small or not. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's why I need you to answer me!]] I think we can create forums for that. I would add that I also missed the congressmen from the committee meeting. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Two committees were set up parallelly, that's why.]] There could have been a more direct dialogue than here. The next speaker, Mrs Bangóné, spoke about the BKV case. Of course, I don't know how the BKV case ends, but I'm not sure if it's natural for the burdened, even in the press, to emphasize their innocence. That doesn't mean the D.A. has to believe that, and neither does the judge. There's evidence in court, and it's okay for the court to order further evidence. I have already replied to Mr Staudt's suggestion on the propertyisation investigation. I don't want to get involved in personal matters, but I think it's not about whether someone was a candidate or not a candidate, but it's really about their activities. I would like to say that in 2000, even before my first election, this candidacy was challenged, although at that time I did not even do a pen stroke in the prosecution's office. It is interesting that my five-year parliamentary commissioner's activities did not come up with this, even though it could have come up. I mean, on this basis, otherwise, it couldn't have come up on the basis of the facts, but the facts often don't matter. [[14.30]] I have to say that there was a Supreme Court President who was a Member, who was not a candidate, and I believe that he did his job impartially and independently. I would add that Mr Nándor Gúr also considered the acquisition of evidence to be problematic many times. I can repeat that it is a crime to obtain evidence through forced interrogation. We have to do this, and we're going to do it, but I'm gonna say this again, if the judge doesn't feel it, it's gonna be a pretty tough job. I think that if there is an acquittal - and I turn to Congressman Barándy again - and the court says that the prosecution is acting illegally, perhaps this should be discussed specifically, because I think that is not the case. Where this happened, the Supreme Court said the exact opposite. Sándor Szabó also asked about a specific case at Kecskemét Kft. There is also a process for others. Mr. Szilágyi has raised many things. I'd like to respond to the Southland case. The procedure is underway, and the legal aid request is now being made. I'd like to add that there's been a lot of archival research, and we've been able to gather a lot of data here. I would also like to say that there are several cases where the Constitutional Court's decision and the legislation tell us exactly what the prosecutor's office can do, what it can't do. I'm saying that specific cases have been decided here on this basis. There have been several land affairs, these cases, partly ongoing cases, we will all look at them, and we will answer them in concrete terms. Maybe I'll go over one more question, the pocket contracts. I would like to say that, in recent years, we have filed 23 nullity lawsuits, including 30 real estate registrations and 107 appeals for illegal property registration. We're trying to do what we can here. Despite all criticism, I think that today's presentation was right and good, and I have learned a lot from it. There's one more thing I'd like to respond to. And that's how many times you've talked about public trust. Even though you have expressed your mistrust, we do not order such surveys, but in the surveys we know, the D.A.'s confidence index is high. There are surveys where we are third after the municipalities and the Constitutional Court. I think it reflects the views of people who are in a daily relationship, either as victims or as prosecutors. And, of course, those who can objectively assess the prosecution's activities. I very much hope that this objective evaluation will reach everyone sooner or later. I can tell you that the D.A. will fight legally and by all means for the purposes to be pursued, i.e. for the protection and development of the legal order, legal certainty. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-10-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Attorney General. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the authors, I give the floor to Mr Rubovszky, President of the Judicial Committee. Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have a maximum of 30 minutes. Here.
u2014-12-10-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It is the task of the Judicial Committee in these hearing proceedings to present the five proposals for decisions concerning the main prosecutor's accounts for the five years. I am in a difficult situation to a certain extent, because the accounts were not, in fact, critical. The criticism of the prosecutor's attitude was that what had been left out of the accounts and that the whole hearing today, about seven and a half hours, had moved towards concrete matters. Now, with all due respect, that's why I'm having trouble with these deficit issues for the year 2009, the year 10 or which year... [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: All of them.]] As I did at the beginning of the hearings, the Parliament must decide each of the five decisions on its own. Given that there was no such split criticism, I cannot answer these criticisms. I believe that what was critical of the activities of the Attorney General, the Attorney General, in my view, reacted in a perfectly acceptable manner, or promised that he might also speak directly to the Members who raised the matter. So, with respect, I have nothing more to say than to maintain the motion from the Committee on Justice that I ask this House to accept all five proposals for decisions that have been tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-10-88	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that it is only possible to submit an amendment to the proposal for a decision. The amendments may be tabled by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A parliamentary report by the President of the Curia follows a joint general debate on the activities of the Curia in 2013 between the provision of a legal unit and the control of local government standards, and the joint proposal for a decision on its adoption, presented by the Judicial Committee, until closure. Report B/637. and the proposal for a decision H/1808. I'm sure they've come to know him. I would like to inform you that the Judicial Committee has initiated the Parliament's decision to accept the report by submitting a proposal for a resolution. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Darák, President of the Curia, author of the report. Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have a maximum of 30 minutes. Here.
u2014-12-10-89	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Allow me to begin with two introductory thoughts. One conclusion would be that the legal unit is not just the Curia's case. The example I would like to mention is that 70 percent of the companies on Fortune's list ten years ago are now missing. They explain this large change by not being able to adapt to the changes. Adapting to change, I believe, has become a key issue in the public sector, and in order for a judicial body, its highest level, to adapt properly to change, three skills are needed. One is to have a vision of the future, the other to have the knowledge of the organization that enables insight, and the third to have the flexibility that makes permanent changes possible. Well, the work of the Curia in 2013 was also characterized by this philosophy. We have tried to respond flexibly to the challenges of legal life, and we have tried to fulfil our constitutional task in such a way that we do not remain on our own to ensure the unity of rights, but that the co-vocations, the prosecutor's office and the lawyer's office can participate in it with great force. One of the important tools for this was to try to make the Curia's legal unit public, and we wanted to use this publicity to put the prosecutor's office, the lawyer's office, at a time when legal unit issues came up in their work so that they could comment. Perhaps one of the successes of this philosophy is the fact that countless lawyers turn to the Mansion with a legal unity initiative and also wish to bring to my attention the anomaly he has perceived in legal life. [[14.40]] The other preliminary question I would like to mention was also mentioned in the oral amendment to the Committee on Justice of the National Assembly, and that is the question of the relationship between the third branch of power and the Parliament, why it is useful for the Curia and the National Court of Justice to report annually to the Hungarian Parliament. I have also said there, and I would like to emphasise this point once again, that one of the opportunities for meaningful dialogue between the legislator and the judiciary bodies is the form in which the President of the Curia and the President of the National Court of Justice are to report annually to Parliament on his main activities. It is also an interesting feature of this report that justice is primarily measured before the Committee on Judicial Issues and is followed by a presentation in plenary. This indicates to us that the fundamental question is whether the judicial body is adequately sloppy with the budgetary resources entrusted to it, it can only be answered if and in such a way that professional questions can be judged by Parliament. Please allow me to move on to the professional issues that served the local government's normal control activities and legal unit objectives in 2013. First of all, I would like to talk about the normal control activity of the local government in broad lines. The 2013 activity of the municipal council of Kuria was characterised by the fact that a number of proposals were received in excess of the previous year. These motions were largely from a government office, to a lesser extent, but not negligiblely from a judicial initiative, or from the motion of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. In 2013 the number of judicial initiatives showed a strong increase: compared to the 2012 3 initiatives, the Council of the Curia decided in 2013 on 16 cases that were initiated by judges in the lawsuits before them. 54 of the 76 standard control initiatives were substantially judged by the municipal council, of which 29 were found to be illegal, 3 times found that the local government had failed to fulfil its legislative task, and 2 decisions were taken on the issue of authorising the head of the government office to replace the decree. In 8 decisions, the Curia rejected the motion and, in 12 cases, issued a refusal order which terminated the procedure or without a substantive examination. What more important questions came before the municipal council of the Curia in 2013? One of the important procedural questions was whether the Curia would confirm the application of the principle of directness in the normal control procedures, since when the Curia took over this task from the Constitutional Court, one of the main arguments in this regard was that the Constitutional Court was not a court of fact, it is not capable of properly clarifying the facts required in the procedures relating to the control of the local government. Therefore, the municipal council considered that the norm control procedure should be brought closer to the litigation procedure and that the principle of directness should be applied in the standard control procedures, so that it made use of this option in one particular case and decided to hear the person with the appropriate expertise when drawing up the local construction regulations. The next important question was whether the control of the norm also covered the already repealed municipal regulations. The Curia has provided a positive response, as there can be a number of disputes in which the municipal decree which has already been repealed has to be applied. In the case of judicial initiatives, there is no need for a substantive review. It was also necessary for the Curia to decide whether its powers were to examine the legality of individual decisions included in the norm. The Curia saw that it had to establish its powers in this context, because if it did not do so, it would be excluded from the legality investigation the individual decisions contained in the regulation, which could thus constitute a misuse of powers. At the same time, the Curia stated in other specific cases that it does not have the statutory and legal authority to examine the appropriateness of a municipal decree, because it would take over the powers, responsibilities and responsibilities of local authorities authorised to establish municipal regulations. The Curia took an acceptable position on the deadline for the Government Office initiative when it stated that, after a late submission, the possibility for the Government Office to repeat the call for legality was open to the Government Office and then again to ask the Curia for control of the standards. At the same time, we had to say that the mayor is not entitled to represent the local government in the standard control procedure before the Curia under the legal provisions, which requires a legal representative. The question of the duration of the annulment has also been raised. The Curia also saw an opportunity to destroy the pro futuro for the future, which was used in the event that immediate or retrospective destruction had irreparable consequences. The Curia also took an important position in principle regarding the applicability of the transitional provisions of the amending municipal regulation, when it stated that if the transitional provisions of the amending municipal regulation do not appear in the amended regulation, they should not have a legal effect after repeal. On several occasions, the Curia had to take a position on the question of what should be the fate of the municipal decree if the legislative provision authorising it had been repealed in the meantime or if the municipality had exceeded the scope of the authorisation. In this respect, it stated as a principle that the decree of the municipality should always be in line with the whole of the legal order; the contrary situation is contrary to the Basic Law. The role of the municipal council of Kuria in the regulation of local taxes has been particularly appreciated, since the Constitutional Court cannot be examined in this context by means of a regulation restricting its powers. In connection with the levying of the Curia property tax, the municipal decree called for the requirement of proportionality, stating that the rate of the tax cannot, in absolute terms, be excessive or may not have the consequence that the value of the tax item should actually be paid as a tax. The Curia took a very important decision on equal opportunities for persons with reduced mobility at the time when it found the General Meeting regulation which allowed exemption from the waiting fee and surcharge in the event of the subsequent presentation of the parking ticket to be illegal, but did not allow the same discount at the time when the person concerned missed the appropriate placement of the disabled ticket. The issue of local government regulations affecting the private sector, where the Curia fixed it, is not possible to make private behaviour such as cleaning a condition for social assistance a more serious publicity issue. However, in another case, it also stated that, if a regulation provides for a specific method of gardening as a condition for social aid, the size of the area to be used in square meters, the method of exploitation, the specific indication of the cuisine garden plants to be produced, in that case, these requirements go beyond the criteria for the external expectations of order in relation to the living environment, which are otherwise permitted by the legislation. From a procedural point of view, the Curia also found a breach of law when a regulation on building matters was adopted without consulting the chief architect, which could be considered unfounded without this opinion. [[14.50]] Following an overview of these main trends in the exercise of the control of the norm, allow me, in a few words, to refer to the main issues of the Curia's unity of rights in 2013. As an introduction, I should mention that this was the year that prepared the Curia and the judiciary for the application of the new Criminal Code and the new Civil Code. Among these, the Curia held a number of college meetings and adopted a number of legal unit decisions and college opinions. These are fully included in my written report. Allow me to highlight some of these instruments, which basically define the direction of justice and interpret the new laws adopted in substance. Such a legal unit decision concerned the issue of the Criminal College governed by the earlier Directive No 15 on crime against life, which has been effectively applied for a long time, in which the Curia took two decisions: one has interpreted the issue of crime against life and the other has adopted guidelines on the issue of legitimate protection. We consider it equally important that the new Btk. the application of the provisions of the Btk on conditional leave. 2. § 2 of the Code on the application of the Criminal Law at the time of the offence or judgment. The Administrative and Labour Legal Unit Council also adopted major legal unit decisions, for example regarding the interpretation of tax secrets and the rules on the application of administrative infringements in respect of small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. when more favourable legal consequences can be applied for small and medium-sized enterprises. Here, the Curia adopted a broader interpretation of the law, so it preferred the principle of more preferential treatment of small and medium-sized enterprises. A significant legal unit decision has also been taken to determine the tax consequences and method of taxation of the online sale of movable property. In 2013, the Civic Legal Unit Council adopted a number of legal unit decisions on foreign exchange credit procedures relating to the issue of foreign exchange credit, from which I would first highlight the last point of Decision No 4/2013, which adopted guidelines on the possibility of submitting a counterclaim for defendant credit institutions. At the end of 2013, the PJE Decision of 6/2013, which adopted general guidelines on the classification, validity and nullity of foreign exchange-based loan and financial leasing contracts, was published in the press. I would like to highlight two further details of the Curia's legal unification activity, one of which aims to confirm that there is a fruitful dialogue between legislation and justice. The evidence of this is a criminal college opinion which raised a problem of interpretation in relation to the use of the word that led to the drunk driving, which was then passed by CLXXXVI in 2013. Act 118. § 4 amended the problematic legislation by adopting it. The same law has been changed in relation to the legal unit decision in connection with the online sale of movable property, where the legislator has detected the problems of interpretation raised in the reasoning of the unit of law decision and has simplified the provision of the personal income tax law in respect of the relevant tax method. I would like to point out that the Curia continued its case-law analysis activities in 2013, with which, on the one hand, it provided the Ministry of Justice with ammunition to play a proactive role in the legislation on justice and revealed the fundamental problematic issues that emerged from the case-law. I would just like to give an example of the topics in which the Curia carried out a case-law analysis this year. Such was the application of the law of the European Union, the case law on propertyisation procedures in determining personal income tax, the question of administrative fines, the practice of ordinary and extraordinary terminations, the legality of the charge and the practice of repealing the review courts. I would also like to mention that in 2013 the Curia took administrative measures to improve the timeliness of the case-law and its results are reflected in the statistics at the end of 2013 but even more in this year's statistics. As President of the Curia, I have imposed a written reporting obligation for all disciplines on matters beyond one year, involving council presidents in the presentation of cases, and a greater involvement of judges assigned to the Curia in its core activity. In addition, I have ordered administrative and administrative investigations into, for example, the operation of the Curia's administration office. Dear Parliament, When an entrepreneur wishes to operate his business successfully, the first and most important condition of this is that he serves the business's business, the object of the undertaking, with sufficient vocation. This dedication is also a characteristic and characteristic of the Hungarian judiciary, the judges of the Curia. Allow me to conclude the oral amendment to my report in the words of Andor Juhász, born 150 years ago this year, in order to send a message to the Hungarian legislature, because Andor Juhász raised a question that is a non-negligible aspect of the feeding of judicial vocation. Andor Juhász spoke as follows. The administration of the law rests on the shoulders of the judiciary and prosecutor's office. The more the judicial and prosecutorial career is based on social weight and material independence, the more it is facilitated for the members of these bodies to exercise their difficult vocations and to safeguard judicial authority. A well-built judicial career is attractive to outsiders, which once again facilitates the care of succession and careful selection. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2014-12-10-90	Thank you, too, Mr President. I now give the floor to Mr. György Rubovszky, President of the Judicial Committee which made the decision. Here you go.
u2014-12-10-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear President of the Curia, Allow me to present a very short presentation. In particular, there are a number of reporting obligations imposed by various levels of legislation, and the House Committee took the view that where the reporting obligation is provided for by the Fundamental Law, it would automatically be sent to the Parliament's plenary session, but if required by a cardinal law or law, these reports will usually be kept by committees, the work will be completed in substance before the committees, and the committees will only inform the President of the Parliament of this work. On the basis of this general rule, no other solution has been raised with regard to the Attorney General, given that the Parliamentary obligation of the General Prosecutor is imposed by the Fundamental Law of the country. [[15.00]] This is not the case with regard to the report of the President of the Curia, and this is also not the case with regard to the report of the President of the National Court of Justice, because both reports are required by a fundamental law. Nevertheless, quite rightly, the House Committee took the view that both should be brought before the House in view of the importance and authority of the two accounts. This was very interesting, because on 30 October of this year, a decision was made before the House Committee at 9 a.m., and at 10:30 a.m., there was a judicial committee hearing, which had to decide whether to close the case in substance or to prepare for the hearing and presentation of the report before the plenary session. Thank God, the latter has been decided. Accordingly, at 10:30 p.m., the President of the Curia, Mr.Péter Darák, gave his report to the Judicial Committee. A decision has been taken following a minimum question criterion and answers to them. The result of the decision was that the committee adopted the report with 10 yes and 1 abstentions, and presented to this House in the same proportion the proposal for a decision by the Committee on Justice, in which it proposed to the Parliament that the proposal for a resolution should be adopted. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-10-92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Demeter, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here.
u2014-12-10-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear President of the Curia, Ladies and gentlemen, As the predecessor of the Supreme Court, the 2011 judicial reform not only formally regained its old patina name today, but also received significant new powers at the same time as the separation of the professional and administrative management of the courts. This was not only a restructuring of the Supreme Court forum, but also, I believe, historical justice. The Curia is therefore heir to the professional and moral standards developed over the centuries, which have affected and affected the whole of the Hungarian judicial system, and by which the Hungarian judiciary has become the rule of law and European standards. This is how the Mansion became the 21st. A state-of-the-art and efficient top judicial body operating in line with the requirements of the 20th century, one of the key tasks of which is to ensure the requirement of a legal unit in order to further strengthen legal certainty. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that, on the basis of the report before us, the Judicial Committee has established that the Curia's professional objectives for 2013 have been achieved. I'd like to say this in a few sentences. One of the most important objectives of the Curia is to ensure uniform and high-quality case-law by exploiting the potential of the new legal unit instruments. For this purpose, the 2013 objectives included the examination of current case-law issues within the framework of the case-law analysis groups in the European Court of Justice. According to the legal provision, the leaders and members of the analysis groups are judges of the Curia. In 2013, the Curia set up nine analytical groups, and I think it is good to see in particular that the work of the analysis groups was supported by external experts again this year, including judges of the lower courts, representatives of other legal professions, since these courts and judges are the first to encounter the most recent problems due to the procedure of the trials. I strongly believe that a clear clarification of the issues raised in due course could lead to the completion of a wide range of litigation cases before the various courts in a much shorter period of time and thus to strengthen people's trust in justice. I very much appreciate that the professional objectives of the Curia include improving the timeliness of judging in individual cases, given that the Curia is the supreme forum for justice in citizens' affairs on a final basis. It should be stressed that dealing with cases before the Curia within a reasonable period of time is key to the predictable functioning of the judiciary. On the basis of the President's report, a clearer understanding of the Curia's decisions is also among the objectives. This is to ensure that the principle content of the decisions in Curia is clearly separated from the rest of the decision and that the decisions to be published in Curia serve the professional orientation of the courts even more effectively. Ladies and gentlemen, It is also good to see that in 2012 the Curia submitted a proposal for a medium-term strategy under the State Reform Operational Programme, which was considered worthy of support. For centuries, justice in the rule of law has been governed by clear ideas such as independence, impartiality, predictability and the protection of the rights of members of the community. The operation of these ideals is in compliance with the Hungarian courts, but the European and global changes of the last two decades now require the Curia to form an institutional strategy designed for the medium term, which helps to follow these changes in an optimal way. It is also an elemental requirement for the Curia to use the positive benefits of the abovementioned changes and to organise their operation with regard to them. I am also pleased that, under the professional objective of supporting the preparation of legislation, the Curia played an active role in the opinion of the draft legislation in 2013. I would like to mention here the assistance in the development of implementing legislation relating to the new Civil Code, which will enter into force on 15 March 2014, and the work carried out on the education and interpretation of the new provisions of the Criminal Code. As a result, I am also pleased that, in the context of the application of the new codes of substantive law, the Curia has reviewed all the guidelines it has issued on the basis of previous codes of substantive law. [[15.10]] And after reviewing these guidelines, it has taken further measures to ensure that the outdated, outdated guidelines do not bind the courts and replace them with modern guidelines that already correctly interpret the new legal terminology. I would like to highlight from the President's report the moments that point to a fruitful cooperation between legislation and case law. One is the Curia 3/2013. It relates to its decision as an administrative and labour law unit concerning the tax consequences of the online sale of movable property. It stated its conclusions on the commercial sale of movable property, referring to the fact that the Income Tax Act 58. § 8 was not fortunate to regulate. Thanks to the Unity of Rights Decision, the said legislation has also been amended. Another example, which was mentioned in the report, Mr President, is the Criminal College's 3/2013 report on drunk driving. It relates to BK's opinion, where the Mansion's interpretation problem was caused by the word "supplier" in the legislative text. The legislator, seeing this problem, removed the controversial word from the Criminal Code. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the law on the organisation and administration of the courts, the President of the Curia submitted to Parliament a report on the activities of the Curia in 2013 in the context of the provision of a legal unit and control of local government standards. The Judicial Committee, as committee responsible for tasks and powers, discussed the report and found it worthy of support. On behalf of our group, I would like to thank the Curia, the President and his colleagues for their work and wish them further successful work and activity. On this basis, I ask you to support the report of the President of the Curia. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-10-94	Thank you very much. Here comes Congressman Tamás Harangozó, head speaker of the MSZP. Here.
u2014-12-10-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Mr. Darts, Invited Guests, Leaders! According to the opinion of the MSZP Group, the report by the President of the Curia is consistent with the legal obligation and thorough. For this report and the professional work behind it, I should like to thank Mr President, the judges and colleagues of the Curia. The report of the Supreme Judge also provides an appropriate opportunity to review and give an opinion on the functioning of the courts in the light of the experience of the past period. In the last few hours, we have made the same assessment of the prosecution and have not hidden our overwhelming opinion. In examining the operation of the courts, we came to very different conclusions. Despite the organizational transformation that we have repeatedly criticised, the subversive of constitutional order and the pursuit of illiberal democracy, the courts have remained guardians of the rule of law and constitutionality. In practice, there has been evidence of the strength of judicial independence. Today, it is obvious that many things have been spoilt by the shifter generation, but there is certainly no reason to be ashamed in one area: judges who are proud of their independence and professional skills have not only absorbed the centuries-old principles and rules of private law and public law, but also the culture of the rule of law and constitutionality in recent decades. Unfortunately, this was not the case for our other institutions exercising public authority. That is why, after 2010, the constitutional coup, which was carried out by a two-thirds majority, basically made the entire state organization an instrument of the arbitrage of a narrow elite of power. However, the courts have maintained their values and continue to fulfil their function. It's all thanks to the self-conscious, well-prepared judges. As so many times, Montesquieu's truth has been proven: only power can stop it. Judges are not political, they only apply the principles and rules of law. Yet, the best way to limit the excesses of recent years has been to the courts. The courts have demonstrated on numerous occasions that they continue to uphold the rule of law, the rule of law, against self-immunity. As we have demonstrated in the last few hours here at the National Assembly, the prosecution's conceptual procedures are broken in the courts. But not only criminal matters, but also the multitudes of lawsuits on personal rights and freedom of information prove that, instead of political considerations, the courts continue to judge according to the spirit and letter of the law. The professional vocation and humility that the entire judiciary has shown in recent years, despite adverse circumstances, is honorable. For all this, the whole Hungarian society owes thanks. Of course, this thanks and recognition are due to the Mansion at the top of the court system. The report also shows clear efforts to improve professional work and preserve a legal culture. These results are particularly remarkable if we are also aware of the operating conditions. Here, we are not thinking primarily of obsolete buildings and IT equipment parks, or of legal salaries that have been frozen for many years - although there is something to be done to improve them, but of the shocking fact that the Fidesz power has removed the most experienced senior judges at the top of their career by requiring forced retirement. This was not only an extremely unfair move against those involved, but it was also a huge sin against the entire Hungarian judicial system. It can also be seen from the report that this measure has caused significant delays in the functioning of the courts. The consequences of this, of course, are not only for judges, but also for law-seeking citizens. I will discuss this in detail later. However, I would like to say that if, with this outrageous measure, the pro-government majority wanted to break the professional work of the courts, the moral integrity of the organisation system, they failed. On the basis of the narrower professional content of the report, it can be seen that the Curia is seeking to devote even greater resources and energy to analysing and standardising the case-law. Accordingly, the report highlights that this work was assisted by the case-law analysis groups. As has already been said here today, nine such groups have been set up to examine, among other things, the practices of repealing the redress courts. In 2013, the case-law analysis group also examined the rules on administrative litigation, in particular with a view to providing an appropriate professional analysis material for the establishment of rules on autonomous administrative litigation. A detailed summary opinion was delivered on the need for a separate administrative procedure, its regulatory principles, directions, the necessary new types of lawsuits and procedural rules. Let us hope that the result of this investigation will also be used in government codification when drafting the rules of the new civil procedure. The Curia's decisions in principle and decisions have significantly shaped judgment. In 2013, the Curia Penalty Council published 24 decisions in principle and a decision in principle. In our opinion, among the decisions of the legal unit councils, special attention should be paid to the decision of the Criminal Unit Council on questions of legitimate protection. We also consider it important to take the decision of the College of Public Administration and Labour as a unit of law, according to which the parties should be fully aware of the tax secrets used in administrative proceedings in the decisions reviewed by the court. If this is not possible, unknowable tax secrets shall not be used as evidence. In the course of its activities, the Civic-Economic Legal Unit Council has taken five decisions, and the College as a Legal Unit Council has taken a decision. In addition to public interest, the Curia has also developed its position on foreign exchange-based credit, loan and financial leasing contracts. [[15.20]] It should be noted here that the court has made a very courageous decision on this matter, and we would also like to add - we, at least Members of Parliament, have to admit this - that this Curia decision founded all other government measures and parliamentary decisions, its direction and its boundaries, and therefore its importance and recognition, I think, is not enough to emphasise with regard to those concerned. Dear Parliament, Of course, the report of the President of the Curia does not lack an examination of the timeliness of the judgmental activity. In this respect, I would like to refer once again to the relationship between forced retirement and the timeliness of judgment. In this respect, the report states, I quote, that the 2012 legal provisions concerning the maximum judicial age have been abolished in the meantime, that in 2013 several judges in Curia have restored their relations of service and, inter alia, that has helped to improve timeliness indicators. The apparently illegal forced retirement of the judges aged 62 years started in 2010 and carried out in 2012 has not been satisfactorily resolved either after the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union condemning Hungary or the decision of the Constitutional Court on the annulment of the provisions on compulsory pensions. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The report also points out in several places that the return of some retired judges has improved the indicators of the case-law. I think that the correct assessment of this situation deserves recognition. Ladies and gentlemen, Since this is a new task, there is a special mention of the local government control activity of the Curia, all the more so, as this area may be of interest to the public in the future. It is interesting to note that in 2013, the Municipal Council of the Curia took 54 decisions, of which 29 decisions establishing, destroying and/or imposing a ban on the application of the law, a decision declaring the failure of three local authorities to act as legislators, 2 decisions on the replacement of the decree, 8 decisions rejecting the motion, and 12 decisions rejecting the Municipality Council without a substantive investigation. Out of the 54 cases examined, 34 were submitted by government offices, 16 by judicial initiatives and 2 by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. In two cases, the Council rejected the application of an individual without a valid examination. Compared to all cases, the number of judicial initiatives is also showing a strong increase, compared to the 2012 3 evaluated initiatives, 16 cases were decided in 2013 on the Curia judicial initiative. It is a positive development that the Curia uses the possibility of a personal interview during its normal control procedure. Thus, the Curia tried to bring the norm control procedure closer to the litigation procedure, to enforce the principle of directness in the norm control procedures, which is also correct. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The Curia's professional objectives for 2014 include the practice of expropriation lawsuits or judicial review of the decisions of the Governmental Officers' Arbitration Committee. The Curia strives to achieve the objectives with modern methods. It is a remarkable solution that the interns from the doctoral schools will work alongside the judgmental councils of the Curia. It will be determined by the research topic of the interns concerned. Doctoral students can help judges by carrying out research and scientific advice on legal issues arising from cases assigned to the council and related to the student's doctoral topic. The establishment of a judicial staff structure capable of assisting judges in the most effective way is an integral part of the Curia's institutional strategy. The objective is to reduce the workload of judges, with the assistance of a sufficient number of judicial staff with the necessary competence, and to focus on meaningful tasks in their work. The objective is also to ensure that each job is performed by a person with a qualification which is strictly necessary for the performance of the job. According to the report, the objective is to support the work of each judgmental council, each of which is to establish a total of 19 senior advisers. We hope that the budgetary resources will be available for this next year. Finally, a critical remark. There is not entirely a consensus between us on the return of the Mansion to the old Palace of Justice. On the one hand, it is questionable what professional aspects can be applied to the use of HUF 50 million provided by the government for preparation. It is a less professional objective for the Curia to be able to carry on its case-law. It is no coincidence that the report records, and I quote, that it is the responsibility of the National Court Office to organise and finance the preparatory work, and at the same time the representatives of the Curia as the institution concerned are continuously present at the building entrances and consultations. It is right that the information is included in the report, but should not be among the professional objectives. To sum up, the President of the Curia's report accounts for correct professional work, which is in line with our opinions and experiences. We will therefore give our warm support to the report and express our thanks to the entire judiciary. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-12-10-96	Thank you very much. Here comes Mr. György Rubovszky, lead speaker of KDNP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-10-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, On behalf of the Christian Democratic Group, I have prepared a very short speech. As at the committee meeting as a Christian Democrat in the Committee on Justice, I accepted the report in its content and supported the presentation of the decision tabled by the Justice Committee, I can announce to this House that the Christian Democratic Group here in this House will follow the same attitude. I do not wish to go into details because I do not wish to include in my speech the criticism of government and power, because Congressman Bellozó praised the Curia in order to emphasize the crappy conduct of that fierce government with a two-thirds majority. I would like to say that justice is not the only one who can be the victim of this early retirement, but the entire public sector from public administration to civil servants. After that, thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2014-12-10-98	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2014-12-10-99	Mr President, Dear House, Dear President of the Curia, Mr. Vice President. In relation to the report of the Curia, first let me express my pleasure that you have been here before the Parliament and that we can discuss this report before the plenum. Although I think that more of the organisations with a reporting obligation as defined by the fundamental laws might come before the plenum, this is a great opportunity to discuss it, even arguing at best, as was the case in the report of the Attorney General, the points on which Parliament and the opposition can express their views. The Attorney General said that the committee meeting was better debated, and perhaps this is also true of the accounts of the Curia and the OBH. I would like to add that the meeting of the Judicial Committee and the Legislative Committee took place in parallel, and I am a member of the Legislative Committee myself, so, although I wanted to be there in the committee debate and to make some of the comments in committee, I could not do that, but if this is an occasion here before the Parliament, I would like to raise some points; positive points, and we will also have critical insights. I would like to point out in advance that the report is a detailed, long piece of paper, including the decisions of the legal unit, and I would also like to thank, of course, Mr President and the Mansion for the work they have done. Although I know that separation of powers is a fundamental principle, which we are also calling into account in the current government, it does not, in my view, mean that certain decisions or decisions of a legal unit should not be criticised in a positive or negative sense in relation to a report. [[15.30]] After all, the National Assembly is the body, the main body of popular representation, where Members can say even the criticisms that come from people or the professional criticisms that can be obtained from judges, prosecutors, lawyers, lawyers, lawyers, lawyers, and perhaps in the future, certain mistakes that can be considered a mistake can be eliminated. So I'd like to deal with these introductions for the Curia's report. The first point I would like to mention is that it is detailed that the report does not really deal with administrative issues. If appropriate, we would also have been happy to read about the successes or perhaps challenges in the depth of the administration of the Curia. If this had been deeper into the account, it would also have made this possible to be discussed. Then I would also like to draw attention to the possibility of ex post norm control. I am aware that it is also possible to say here what the President of the Curia did not live, as I understand it, in any case not with the possibility of ex post norm control, even though I believe that this is not just a right, an excellent right that is granted to the President of the Curia, but in some cases also a duty. It is also a duty, since, as has been said, only a quarter of the Members of Parliament can exercise this right, so no faction can do so separately. Therefore, both the Attorney General and the President of the Curia are subject to an additional obligation according to our interpretation of the law. We hope that in the future, the President of the Curia will also take advantage of this opportunity by having, in some cases, Parliamentary decisions concerning the judges on which it was later established that they had been adopted in breach of the basic law. In these cases, or even otherwise, not only does it concern the system of judicial organisation, but when there are constitutional concerns, I encourage the President of the Curia, the Attorney General or even the Ombudsman from here to use this tool in peace. I think this will only strengthen confidence in the Mansion. It may arise as a question, and in the profession it is common to wonder whether the possible negative mansion response to the decisions of the Constitutional Court is in fact a competition between the two organisations. Of course, they were not so strong as to affect beyond the profession, but it may be important for the future to clarify these misunderstandings or professional disputes. Where appropriate, Parliament may need to amend a law if the interpretation of the law or the law is not clear, but some of us can see such competition between the two organisations, let us call it that. We consider the internship and senior counseling system a good idea. Obviously, the test of pudding is eating, although the report says that a similar system has already worked at the Mansion. We believe that this may strengthen the ability to make better professional decisions and encourage this decision by Mr President, and we will welcome it in the future, even in the accounts of the next few years, if it tells us about the detailed experience. I would like to give some thought to the work of the legal unit councils, as I said, with a positive or even critical edge. We consider the decision on legitimate protection to be particularly good and forward-looking. The Curia understood the intention by which the Parliament created this new amendment of the law and added it to the Btk. Similarly, in tax matters, we consider the decisions made in the case of the objective of your tax secrets or even in the context of the obligation to prove NAV are good, important, and also in the case of decisions and analyses relating to asset estimates. It is important that the Curia is indeed a guardian of legality and can resist the expansion of the NAV, of course on the ground of law. We have a positive view on the revision of municipal legislation. The decision on municipal property tax, as Mr President pointed out, is a good decision, and taxation must also be limited somewhere, and the Curia has hit it right, and it has rightly said that above a certain level, this is actually an extra burden that will bring it up and destroy even the taxed object. On the other hand, as regards the decision on social aid, I would also like to revise local government legislation, but here I would like to use a kind of criticism, and even as the voice of the people, if I may put it this way. The decision here was that, as a condition for social assistance, private activities cannot be concluded, such as cleaning. You might even say that the direction is understandable, but I feel dangerous as to where the limit is in this story, whether, in the case of a court or property, keeping it in order or keeping it in the environment of the property, this will be the case in the future. So that a municipality expects at least enough public aid to keep its living environment in order, then we very much hope that this will not fall into the circle that the Curia does not consider fit into the freedom of municipal legislation. I wanted to draw attention to their dangers. The setting up of the asylum case-law analysis group can also be read in this material. This is good, because asylum, immigration, is a very important and increasingly fierce area. Surely in the future, the ever-increasing number of refugees can, or may be, enable decisions to be taken and decisions to be taken by both the law and the Curia, as well as the unification of the decisions of the various courts. I think that perhaps we would have liked to have read details in this report as well. If not now, perhaps in the next year's report we would be very interested in what the asylum case-law analysis group has come up with, and we would like to review and discuss the details of this in front of this House. In which we must express strong social criticism, this is the foreign exchange-credit decision. Here, as a lawyer and indeed as the voice of the people, but properly put the criticism on a legal basis, I would like to say that we have not been able to welcome this very much. We believe that the fact that a decision may involve banks, serious market players, is of a total social dimension, but only on the basis of an analysis of the legislation and based on the legislation, and should not be shaken by anyone's hands. The same is true of Parliament, by the way, so we do not just address this to the Mansion, so that Mr. President does not feel that we are only responsible for the Mansion here, or we say that the Mansion may have a shaking hand. In the same way, the Fidesz government, a two-thirds Fidesz government, Fidesz-KDNP government, had a complete shaking hand when only the laws were to be enforced on the banks, but it is not well that decisions can be made which, in our opinion, do not always correspond not only to the perception of society, but also to the legal and professional requirements. In this case, the Curia has taken a legal unit decision without knowledge of the full spectrum of foreign exchange credit contracts. We do not believe that there has been such a depth of analysis of the problem, economic and other aspects of its analysis, that such a decision could have been taken responsibly. [[15.40]] What am I thinking? I really need to go a little further on this, to demonstrate our reservations about this. This legal unit decision begins by saying that foreign exchange-based credit, loan and financial leasing contracts are foreign exchange contracts, and in this connection I said a few thoughts ago, and the legal unit decision itself recognises that the cases are different, and the court can only decide exactly what the facts of a particular case have been. Compared to this, the Curia's legal unit decision made this finding at the beginning, without later agreeing to certain details. I would also like to quote that it is also in this single-law resolution that it is only in the position to decide whether or not nullity exists. We can agree with that. This is why it is of concern that all foreign currency or foreign currency credit has been declared at the beginning of the decision. And the decision also recognises that, when foreign exchange-based loan agreements become widespread, legislation did not define the concept of foreign currency-based loan. So we are not talking about the way in which the banks complied with the legislation at the time, because at that time it was not sufficiently regulated at the statutory level. Therefore, especially carefully and especially after an analysis of professional depth, it is only possible to touch the subject, and it is therefore not understandable that the substance also states that the foreign exchange loan is, in any case, a foreign currency loan, as the debt is denominated in foreign currency. We don't think that's what makes it a currency-based loan. I'd like to take two more parts out here, which is particularly interesting in the legal unit resolution. I would also like to quote: the currency-based loan is backed up by a currency resource, taking into account the rules on financial institutions that are governed by public law. It's very true, and let's underline this sentence, which is exactly what we said, that a foreign exchange source should stand behind a foreign exchange loan in order to qualify as a foreign exchange loan. It will not be a foreign exchange loan because the bank says and has the client sign it - it is not enough in our opinion alone - but the sentence continues in a way that is difficult for me to understand that an examination of whether a currency source is behind a specific contract is impossible and unnecessary in the lawsuits. I believe that if the first sentence is about a foreign exchange source behind a foreign currency loan - and this is being said, and that is the case - then the most important thing is to examine whether a foreign currency loan or a foreign currency source is actually behind those transactions. Here we find the logic of the legal unit decision, two conflicting sentences in a row, and a little later we find a sentence referring to this topic that the change in the exchange rate does not affect the creditor's situation, as the debtor receives in HUF the currency of the same value as he paid. What does that mean? That the bank, if it did give this amount to the debtors in foreign currency, by converting foreign currency resources, is in the same position regardless of the exchange rate, since he will redeem the forint he receives from the debtor and he will end up in the same place he started. But if we don't look at whether it was actually a foreign exchange source behind these transactions, it will take us away from the whole direction, because if there was no foreign exchange source and these banks gave forints, they gave the debtors another person's forint deposit, they will make a huge profit if the exchange rate moves in the wrong direction for the debtors. I would add that in this case - and this has been said in the report of the Attorney General - it is, in our view, a fraud, therefore, the Btk. The fact of fraud is realised if the foreign exchange source was not available, the bank did not take up any currency, forints from the forint, and then obtained an amazing extra profit. And that's the main problem, and the whole cancer threat of currency lending would be just like whether or not there was a currency source. If there was a source of currency, we must be right that the banks were indeed damaged; but if they did not have to, say, take these money from Switzerland, if you like it, then, in addition to fraud, they would have an extra profit - even if they could be called unwarranted enrichment - which they do not have. For this reason, we do not understand why this single-law decision went a bit off-limits, and why it really couldn't be about the point, and we very much regret that the real question couldn't come up properly. I must also tell you - and this is also a very important thing, we have said it several times, but it must be stressed - that, according to the statistics of the Hungarian National Bank, one fifth of the countries entered the country in foreign currency, as the banks talked about foreign currency lending. We are talking about statistics from the Hungarian National Bank. If we put this thing next to what we've been saying, so what I've told you is that there's a huge problem, and someone or someone in the banking sector, these big banks have really screwed us all over, especially the foreign exchange lenders. By the way, in the lawsuits - and in the case of my fellow Member Dániel Z. Karpát, the main fighter of this at Jobbik, but myself, lawyers, judges, lawyers who dealt with such foreign exchange loan lawsuits - it can be said that the banks could not prove that the currency source was available. Nor were they able to present conversion certificates, or even that they had transferred these amounts in foreign currency and landed on the client's HUF account, so the conversion could take place between the two. So they couldn't come up with any such evidence, and in many cases they started winning these lawsuits with a skilled, competent lawyer, these foreign exchange taxpayers. After that, the Curia's decision as a legal unit disappointed many people, since in these lawsuits, such as a first-degree lawsuit - and they began to become a mass - the statement by the Curia that there is no need to examine whether there is a currency behind foreign exchange loans, whether there is a foreign currency source, in fact to the courts and debtors, it meant that they could not carry on the demands that the court had granted them. That was particularly painful. By the way, in our legal opinion - I have to say this, too - the fact that foreign currency is included in a contract, and in most of it it was included as a credit line, does not mean that the loan granted by the bank as a HUF loan would still have been created as a foreign currency loan in this form. So the credit line can be in foreign currency, but the credit agreement and the loan agreement - as the Curia's legal unit decision rightly describes - do not cover one hundred percent of each other, in fact the loan is only the promise to grant the loan. We could go into more detail, but I believe that these suggestions on our part are those which, on the basis of the decision of the legal unit of foreign exchange credit, were very painful, and for society, the decisions of the Curia, which are otherwise eligible and excellent, have been a little spoiled or nuanced. Of course, those who work also make mistakes, only in this case the social volume that these decisions affect is much larger. In the end, I would like to raise what we also said to the Attorney General, but if this is about the Curia's accounts, I would also like to say that the public also resented the case - when it came to accountability here, I am thinking of the Gyula Molnár case - that the judge could be the head judge of the Council and that the former mayor, Gyula Molnár, was the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2010. [[15.50]] His name is Róza Mészár, he's been published in the press, and we're hearing from the press about these events. By the way, Gábor Simon announced that she was their constitutional candidate. I know that there is no legal conflict of interest here, but in my opinion, from the point of view of social judgment, such cases should be avoided in the future, since even in the case of those who think wrong, of course, it is wrong - if the most regular, lawful judgment is given in such a case and all the rules are observed, it is difficult to explain to society and to the people in all cases that this is absolutely right, and there could not have been any problem with it. I ask Mr President that in the future the Curia may pay more attention to this, and let us also make it clear to society that such decisions involve judges who do not even consider having any connection to the organisation concerned. With these closing thoughts, I'd like to conclude the lead speakerial round. Our critical remarks have been made. Nevertheless, we naturally appreciate the work of the Curia, and we expect them to make a lot of good and useful decisions, decisions of principle, decisions of law unity in the future. But we, Members of Parliament, can also say here in Parliament what the criticisms we are dealing with are, and we say this with a positive, corrective intention, and when people express their views to us, they are pleased that, if appropriate, this will be said at the Parliament meeting. Mr President, thank you very much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-10-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. The first two-minute speeches include Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Mr Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-12-10-101	Mr President, Dear House, I think it is important to separate my normal speech - which is obviously about the Curia's package before us - from the response that I pressed and tried to do when I spoke at the head of the MSZP. The MSZP calls the Curia's so-called unit of law decision on foreign exchange lending a surprisingly courageous decision and its circumstances, while its representatives here in Parliament are criticising the government's action plan on foreign currency lending, which is clearly based on it, as it has been said, so the Curia's resolution as a legal unit is the basis for the government's draft of action that has recently emerged, and we consider this to be a huge mistake. The government typically refers to the fact that it could not be put into circulation at a reduced rate. [[Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: That's not true!]] 'Cause one of the Curia's decisions, one of them, made his hand. That's not factually true. The Curia's decisions as a legal unit contained any statement regarding the margins and the consequences of unilateral transfers. It is not true, therefore, that the government's justification - or, if you can deny it, please, Mr Secretary of State, to press a button, but not a press button - is not true, so the claim that preferential forinting would not have been possible. The fact is, the representatives of the government did not want to HUF at a reduced rate. By the way, the Curia itself helped them to state in its decision that there is no conversion, there is only conversion. And my fellow Members, do you know what it takes to convert? It's not a currency, it's a dice notebook. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-10-102	Thank you, Congressman, for your encouraging words, that someone else should press the button, not just you, and that is something that Congressman Rubovszky has accepted. [[Defiance.]] who immediately asked for a two-minute speech. You have the floor.
u2014-12-10-103	Thank you very much. With all due respect, I would like to draw attention to the fact that today's agenda is the decisions of the legal unit of 2013 and the municipality. What you're talking about, Congressman, is a 2014 decision. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: 2013!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you very much. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: We're talking about two of them, one of them, and one of them.]]
u2014-12-10-104	They like you, I see. Congressman Staudt, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-12-10-105	Thank you very much...
u2014-12-10-106	I'm sorry, it's my fault, because in a circle, only one congressman can speak. I'm just so happy that they're giving each other the floor, that this joy has almost made me different from the house rules. But not in a two-minute way, but in a different way. Thus, as a pre-notified speaker, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian from Jobbik.
u2014-12-10-107	Mr President, Dear House, As a token of my respect, I do not wish to embarrass my pro-government fellow Member. We have mentioned two decisions on the legal unit, my fellow Member Staudt, and I, one of them in 2013, but obviously there is also a 2014 resolution. We're right, but that's not what the debate is about, so let's not get into this. The fact is, it is very good that we can discuss this package, which is now ahead of us, and as regards the Curia, I see movements in which I can only express my appreciation. One of the most important things is the positivity and positive nature of decisions on legitimate protection, in addition to the establishment of a basically analysis group on asylum, which, if properly explained, would be able to respond to one of the most serious problems of our time. After all, we can see that those who have not only been following the news, but also the processes behind them, have faced amazing statistics: in this year fewer children have been born in Hungary, in relation to months, than the number of refugees who have engulfed our country. So you can see that we are dealing with a serious problem that legislation should also pay attention to, and that all branches of power should also pay attention to. Following a comprehensive strategy, we should protect Hungary in the context of a very serious emerging situation. I am very pleased that at least there is a plan to settle this at any level, but we clearly miss the explanation. I very much hope that next year, at the same time or at some point, we will be able to talk about what you have come up with in connection with this process. So it must be seen that, as I mentioned, the Curia's in some way ambiguous decisions and, in other cases, it would have helped the government's work are creating a strange duality. We mentioned that it was stated that there was no conversion, that there was a conversion typically in foreign exchange-credit cases. But we also have to say that I think it is a huge mistake that the Curia, without knowing the entire spectrum of foreign exchange credit contracts, without their necessary analysis, has taken a legal unit decision on the subject, because it can be seen that this was indeed the basis of the government's action plan, it created references, and also false references to the government, as it claimed that it could not have applied a preferential forinting rate, but as mentioned above, this is not factually true. There are very serious questions here. When the legal unit decision is about the fact that the other and the other contracts are, in fact, foreign currency loans, well, in many cases they make statements and statements against the facts that are simply indefensible. But if we were to go beyond that for a moment now, let us put a few concerns that have been raised many times over the last few years, but neither the legislation, nor the Curia, nor anyone else, has been able to provide reassuring answers to these questions, yet it takes a decision without answering these questions. For example, how could it happen that so-called foreign exchange loans were signed by people without qualifications, namely, people without qualifications have signed contracts with citizens, in many cases for extra commissions, but this is an additional circumstance that I do not think is within the Curia's scope of investigation. But it certainly should also have appeared as a print at the decision level, that there has been a series of abuse, mass abuse and a national economy; the mediation of people without qualifications is certainly this. The lack of risk management is another key area, which would have been a legal obligation for the banks and financial institutions concerned. Yet, both fair information and risk management, which is not optional, have failed. It is not up to the banks or financial institutions concerned to choose whether to use it, to have a legal obligation, and to do so in a declarative manner. The extent to which the amount of foreign exchange withdrawal was incomplete has already been said many times here in Parliament. The MNB's quarterly reports show the volume of foreign exchange that was included in the financial markets in relation to Hungary, and we also know very well how much volume has been allocated. 20 per cent of the amount of coating compared to the rate of placement. Since then, he has not been able to give a reassuring explanation to anyone. That is why we find it quite amazing that there have been legal decisions such as those which, I repeat, have had points of confidence. [[16.00]] But overall, they put foreign exchange credit victims in a very, very difficult position. We also have to say that there are a number of winning lawsuits on the side of the credit-damaged party, where one thing was asked in the courtrooms for the bank or financial institution to present a certificate that the currency withdrawal had taken place, and on that day, that period or during the transaction period, he made a loan contract for his client after the withdrawal of so many currency. See for yourself, that's almost never been done by the bank involved. He couldn't do it because it wasn't linked to the transaction. The typical explanation was that in terms of their portfolio management habits it was a group event and it was not possible to present any conversion certificate for a client or a contract here. It's just that the MNB statistics show that this group character is not true either. The 20 percent is true and can be shown, by no means more than that. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] In the case of car credits, it may also be noted that, for 70 per cent of the contract book under investigation, no amount of debt as defined in CHF and a daily exchange rate or exchange rate from which the amount of the real debt could have been deducted. In many cases it has been proven, once again, that 70 percent of the contracts were wrong in this respect. And if the banks concerned had been able to stand up to these accusations, then it is not certain that the lawsuit launched by the banks of well over a hundred would have bled out against the Hungarian State. So it can be seen that these abuses have occurred here on a continuous and very well-defined basis. And let us not pretend that there are no very serious consequences for the future, both for the failure or incomplete work of the Curia as I claim, and for the amazing mistakes of the legislation. After the expiry of the enforcement, eviction moratorium, 120 thousand non-performing or unfulfilled contractors and the family members and property owners behind them may be at risk. So there is an amazing drama waiting for the needy Hungarian families simply because they leave such loopholes in the system. Well, you could see that was gonna happen. After all, in 2006, the Banking Association itself issued a call in which it had already hidden the risks, but in the light of the money market processes, it knew what it could expect, since it had already received warnings from Switzerland and had received warnings from another direction, but it claimed that in a 25-page publication, the organisation concerned stated that it would be guaranteed to strengthen the forint in comparison to both the Swiss francs and the euro, to use these arrangements calmly, and that there is no substantial danger in this respect. Well, we are also very sorry that these issues have not been discussed with all stakeholders at the foreign exchange-credit round table convened by Jobbik. After all, there were all the relevant civil society organisations, those with whom the government unfortunately did not negotiate. But even though we invited representatives and leaders of other parties, even though we invited the Ministry of National Economy, they didn't pay their respects either. In such cases, it is clear that the Curia's resolution should make it easier for the organisations concerned, but, of course, we do not want to have any say in what will be on the table next year. It would only be beneficial if this did not hinder the situation of those who have suffered foreign exchange credit. After all, it is clear that when they say that they believe that foreign currency loans are involved, there are certain things that need to be explained. We should explain how it could have happened, there are a lot of cases that have been examined and documented about how the client came into the bank a few years ago, when he saw that all hell broke loose, tried to settle his debt in foreign currency, and drove him away, and I'm sorry for the expression. They wouldn't let him, saying, written on paper, declaring that it was a forint contract, how does he imagine that he will repay in Swiss francs or in any other currency. We must also say that there has been a lack of clarification of the concept of foreign exchange loans and foreign currency loans. Thus, the decisions of the legal unit were issued in such a way that there was a lack of knowledge of the fundamental concepts of confusion and of the basic structures linked to financial institutions, and they simply tried to introduce a system into a swamp. Apparently, it didn't work. This is shown by the government's so-called settlement plan, which causes a thousand billion-dollar amount of damage to foreign exchange lenders. What is most brutally, however, is that individual citizens have been deprived of the right to justice of the data subjects by essentially stopping and suspending the lawsuits until this process, called settlement, has been completed. Many Hungarians have been deprived of the possibility of correction and justice. And it is questionable what will happen afterwards, because after the government's settlement plan, those affected will start from a more disadvantaged position, especially if their so-called foreign currency loans are converted into forint loans, essentially doing banks favors. After all, they don't do all the damage they've done, they just do a very small part of it. Hungarian citizens and stakeholders start from a very difficult situation. In conclusion, therefore, very serious questions should be answered. And it doesn't stand up to the statement that a brave decision was made here. I feel that this is also a series of decisions bypassing the extraction of the true problem's fangs from 2013 and 2014. These are connected things, we can't negotiate them separately. But it can be seen that the answers to them would be available to resolve the whole issue the following year. In the meantime, we must express it over and over again, Jobbik cannot settle for a solution that takes even one forint from Hungarian citizens unduly. However, the Curia's decision as a legal unit upholds it, leaves it with the banks and helps the banks to leave some of the funds unduly taken. This is intolerable, and a solution must be found. And I hope that we must find a solution here, within the framework of Parliament, within the walls of Parliament. However, this requires insight and frank discussion. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-10-108	Thank you, Congressman. I salute my fellow Members and give the floor to Mr Staudt Gábor for two minutes.
u2014-12-10-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I always try to talk about what is in the material described, and on page 99, page 6/2013. I'm talking about a single law decision. I would say that to my colleague Rubovszky. So before it hits me, it might have been worth seeing what this account is about. By the way, it was a problem, and I told Mr. State Secretary this at committee meetings and earlier that the government often referred to the Curia that he could not bring a law before the Parliament because the Curia had decided either that or that. We agreed at the committee meeting that I must have misunderstood this, because the decision of the Curia does not oblige Parliament, the Curia does not have the powers of the Constitutional Court from this perspective. Moreover, the government's position is even stranger, since the Curia also describes in this legal unit decision that the amendment of the court's contract is not suitable for making decisions affecting large masses, the bulk of contracts. There might be some truth to that. In addition, it is described that the Parliament, the legislator, is the one who has the main responsibility for settling such a situation. That's what they say to the government, checkmate. The Parliament should have made these decisions. Not to mention the fact that the Constitutional Court has also confirmed that the National Assembly can even subsequently enter into contracts that affect a large number of people in an unforeseen situation. And on the basis of the principles of the National Assembly, the courts may enter into individual contracts in each decision. All we ever wanted was to comply with these laws. We're sorry if the government couldn't do that. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-10-110	Thank you, Congressman. Please continue, since... - you indicate that you do not wish to comment. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. Yes, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát asked to speak in a 15-minute time frame.
u2014-12-10-111	Mr President, Dear House, The Jobbik faction does not just think that there is a faction in our midst that either does not participate in this debate, or that it does not want to comment on the worst financial tragedy of the last decade in Hungary, and at all in connection with the resolution of the legal unit on this issue, linking it to the agenda before us, the issue of foreign exchange credit. But I find it at least so outrageous that once again we do not know whether there will be an answer to why the government refers to the Mansion in the so-called forintation. What part of your single law decision do you refer to, exactly, to explain the unexplainable? And if we are now obviously answered within the framework of a closet, we will not be able to respond to this in an incorrect way. That is why I ask for the last time Mr Secretary of State to get involved in this debate. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: We can't ask you again.]] [[16.10]] We cannot ask for it more than once, yes, because we will, in effect, now press speeches on ourselves, which at least kills the nature of the debate, since you are not involved. But we continue to ask that, if this forinting at the so-called almost market rate is correct, or if you think that your hands are tied to the issue of granting discounts to victims who have not received any benefits, have only been given minimal facilitations so far, then explain which section, which part, which point of the legal unit decision is binding your hands, and give an explanation so that the opposition factions may have the opportunity to react, within the framework of an intelligent debate and within the framework of a confrontation here in Parliament, the voters behind us can find out why the government is selling - I say once again - the resolution of the worst financial disaster of the decade. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt applauds.]]
u2014-12-10-112	Thank you, Congressman. For two minutes, Mr. Tamás Harangozó will have the floor.
u2014-12-10-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, if this subject has been brought here at such a depth, I would just like to confirm that perhaps this is the time for the President of the Curia to say something here to the Members of Parliament professionally. Because the argument that we believe the government has come up with in this case is simply not true, false, and lying. If this were not the case, then a series of lawsuits on the basis of this law would probably have been launched by the banks on the basis of this law, which was also made possible by a law adopted by Parliament. Moreover, the banks did indeed bear this burden there. The reason I am bringing this up is because our proposal, because we had a proposal to amend the law, which was about having these loans forinted at the rate of government change in 2010, which, by the way, would have been a little over 180 forints, and this government argument came about that it was impossible, and that is not possible. By the way, we didn't say that it was clear that the financial burden should be put on the banks. Instead, we said that the financial burden of this should be borne by those who have contributed personally and in the robe of government responsibility, that the rate of HUF has been released at this level in recent years, and that the vast majority of the problems of foreign exchange lenders are simply systematically caused by this problem. Therefore, once again, I would like to ask the President with great respect to tell him, if he knows, which interpretation is correct here. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-10-114	Thank you very much: Mr Répássy Róbert asked for a word for two minutes.
u2014-12-10-115	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I would just like to say, Mr President, that I understand that the item to be discussed here is not any of the so-called foreign currency credit laws adopted by Parliament, but the report by the Curia. So I'd consider it a little unworthy for the National Assembly to talk about another matter regarding the Curia's report. The one possible question that Mr Bellozó said was that the President of the Curia should explain a decision in Curia, but that is not a constitutional suggestion, so a possible question, but not a constitutional one, because the President of the Curia will not explain the decision of one of the Curia's colleges or councils. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2014-12-10-116	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No further comments were received. The joint general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Péter Darák, President of the Curia, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2014-12-10-117	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I would like to thank you all for the comments and thoughts you have made on the 2013 report of the Curia. We will evaluate and consider these points and, if we consider them necessary, we will respond to them later. I would therefore like to thank you, first of all, for the critical comments, and allow me to recall, in connection with the positive findings, a little story by Andor Juhász, which may show something about how a judge should accept possible positive manifestations. The story is that when Andor Juhász began his court career at the Košice court, an elderly judge was his first principal, of whom he wrote that he was an independent, well-mannered, well-mannered, educated man, who gave much to ensure that even the appearance of his judicial impartiality would not be obscured. After the official afternoon classes, young Andorral Juhász took a regular tour of the city, and they always visited a well-kept private park as they walked. On one occasion, when they had been walking along that way for many of these walks, Andor Juhász turned unwittingly at the open gate of the park, but the old principal walked rigidly on the sidewalk of the street. Andor Juhász followed him and asked why they would not enter the park this time. And he gave me the following answer: "I understand that the park owner now has something in the courtroom, it is not a big deal, but it is a court case, in which he has an opponent. I could happen now that I met him on the park roads, and he would politely tear down a rose and offer me the most embarrassing thing. I couldn't accept this rose from him, from the plaintiff, and he would certainly feel offended, not understanding the reason for his refusal. I'd rather avoid this possibility. Let the Honourable Parliament therefore allow me to withdraw from the positive comments in a similar way in my reply. Turning to critical remarks now, Gábor Staudt and Dániel Z. Kárpát, in particular, have some thoughts in relation to the comments made by Members. The report does not deal in detail with administrative issues because the President of the Curia reports on the provision of the legal unit and the local government's normal control activity. Nevertheless, the administrative measures concerning timeliness which I mentioned in my oral amendment are set out in the report. The second point was why the President of the Curia did not exercise his post-standard control initiative powers. The President of the Curia is not alone in this power, every judge in Hungary has the right to request ex post norm control in relation to the questions raised in the lawsuit before him. The judges have done this dozens of times in recent years, all the important constitutional issues raised by the public, public opinion, in connection with the administration of justice, have been brought before the Constitutional Court. Of course, it is also the duty of the President of the Curia to exercise this right if there are questions concerning the judicial status of the legal unit which require the resolution of the Constitutional Court. I would like to mention that, in this context, the President of the Curia submitted an opinion in support of the Constitutional Court control procedure initiated by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights on a previously adopted law, and that, on the basis of the motion, the law was partially annulled. I would like to say that the President of the Curia is not in a position to give interpretation and explanation regarding the decisions of the unit of law on foreign exchange-credit matters, as Mr Secretary of State rightly pointed out. If you could make such an addition to a decision on a legal unit, you could take them on this basis, but after a large number of judges are jointly entitled to do so in constitutional order, this decision and its justification cannot be interpreted either by the President of the Curia in an extension or in a restrictive manner. The second question is whether the Curia's first legal unit decision on foreign exchange credit cases was taken at the right time. I would like to point out here that the Curia's decision as a legal unit was adopted on the basis of more than one and a half hundred judgments obtained by the Curia, solely in relation to the questions contained in and raised in the judgments, on the harmonisation of the legal positions held there. [[16.20]] Therefore, the Curia's legal unit decision did not address either the public banking supervision issues or the circumstances which may give rise to a treaty amendment which the honourable Members concerned in their comments. This single-law decision revealed only certain contexts of the circumstances giving rise to nullity. The fact that this single-law decision was not written with the intention of closing the issue of foreign exchange credit is very well demonstrated by the fact that, as the Members have pointed out, in 2014, a new single-law decision was taken on the issue of unfairness. The other point, which concerned the issue of foreign exchange credit, I think is that it is more likely to be regarded as a legal position on this issue as an opinion on specific matters, on specific issues, and on current legislative issues and criticisms, i.e. opinions that do not affect the President of the Curia. A further point has been raised in a specific case concerning the composition of a Council of the Curia. The Member himself raises the question of where the limit can be drawn from the perspective of personal circumstances in the context of his decision on local rule social aid. I could ask the same question when the question of the impartiality of judges arises. The Curia operates according to a public system of division of cases published on its website, and there is a complete automatic signature in the penal college, so it can be predicted on a mathematical basis which case will go to which council. Where is the limit for the leadership of the Curia, the signing head of the college, to intervene in this public and predefined order? If there is a newspaper article about the possibility that a judge might be close to a political trend in some way, does this give the Curia the right to take professional leadership away from the trend that is public and accepted by everyone? In particular, I would like to ask this question as to how a judge can be challenged in court proceedings if there is a thorough bias. I indicate that no such bias has been raised on any side of the case referred to above. I would once again like to thank the Honourable Parliament for the support it has raised in the positive manifestations of the critical comments and the directions they consider appropriate, and I would also like to thank the Parliament for its anticipated support in providing budgetary support in connection with the restructuring of the Curia, in connection with the operation of the internship system and the construction of a more extensive system of chief advisors. During the budgetary negotiations with the government, the presentation included a budget resource to support the Curia's network of chief advisors, and I thank you in advance for your positive decision in this regard.
u2014-12-10-118	Thank you very much, President Peter Darák. On behalf of the authors, I give the floor to Mr Rubovszky, President of the Judicial Committee. You have the floor.
u2014-12-10-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll be very brief. Given that there has been no criticism of the proposal for a decision tabled by the Judicial Committee, all I ask with respect is that it be this positive opinion in the decision and that this House adopt the proposal for a resolution adopting the report. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-10-120	Thank you very much, President Rubovszky. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that it is only possible to submit an amendment to the proposal for a decision. The amendments may be tabled on Thursday at 16 a.m. Dear Parliament, The 2013 report by the President of the National Court of Justice and the joint general debate on the proposal for a decision on its adoption presented by the Judicial Committee will follow. The report was published in B/1305. by serial number, and the proposal for a decision is H/1810. is available on the IT network by serial number. I would like to inform you that the Judicial Committee has initiated the Parliament's decision to accept the report by submitting a proposal for a resolution. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mrs Tünde Hando, President of the National Court Office, author of the report. You have the floor, Madam President.
u2014-12-10-121	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Vice President, Mr President, Mr. Vice President. Dear House, Ferenc Deák said, whose picture you can see every day, in 1832, the following:. When the spirit of the times changed with the development of our national beauty, many old things must be abolished, many new ones must be made, and much improved..The legislator, Parliament, decided by 2012 that changes were needed in the administration of the court organisation, precisely because you, the clients and lawyers were dissatisfied with the timelessness, the lack of a legal unit that marked the court organisation. The qualitative and quantitative problems were becoming increasingly noticeable. Well, the OBH may have reported to you about the second year of its operation, and we have sent a large report to Parliament. This is also available on the central website of the courts, at birosag.hu. I note that not only does the National Court Office, but all the courts now have Internet access, all courts, unlike before, operate with such openness and publicity both in their judgment and in their other activities, which, I think, can be exemplary for many other organisations.2013 was not only about the changes, but the results that were expected of us when we started. However, before I speak of the results, I consider it important to bring to your attention Article C of the Fundamental Law (paragraph 1) which explicitly states, unlike the previous ones, that the operation of the Hungarian State is based on the principle of power-sharing. I would also like to thank Minister László Trócsányi for pouring this sentence into a metaphor that is understandable to all. He said when he took over the ministerial seat that judicial independence was the standing star of the Hungarian rule of law. That is what we said at the beginning of 2012 because, with the help of the judiciary, we developed the strategic goals of the court organisation. We have identified six strategic goals that go beyond what is required by the legislation. These are the objectives on which we wanted to renew the administration of the judiciary, and I would only refer back to Mr President's words that none of the institutions of the court organisation is different from any other organisation that surrounds us, it is important that these organisations be renewed, look at themselves and use the methods by which they can perform better and better. Well, I repeat our strategic goals every time, and I will not miss or leave this now, because I think they are very important. [[16.30]] (paragraph 1) which explicitly states, unlike the previous one, that the operation of the Hungarian State is based on the principle of division of power. I would also like to thank Minister László Trócsányi for pouring this sentence into a metaphor that is understandable to all. He said when he took over the ministerial seat that judicial independence was the standing star of the Hungarian rule of law. That is what we said at the beginning of 2012 because, with the help of the judiciary, we developed the strategic goals of the court organisation. We have identified six strategic goals that go beyond what is required by the legislation. These are the objectives on which we wanted to renew the administration of the judiciary, and I would only refer back to Mr President's words that none of the institutions of the court organisation is different from any other organisation that surrounds us, it is important that these organisations be renewed, look at themselves and use the methods by which they can perform better and better. Well, I repeat our strategic goals every time, and I will not miss or leave this now, because I think they are very important.(16.30) Our first and most important goal - and it is the task of the National Court of Justice to help the court body do so - is to ensure that the courts fulfil their constitutional obligations, independent judges, judge at a high level and timely level. The next important thing - given that thousands of people are working in this organization and thousands, tens of thousands, millions of clients are arriving at the courts - is that we manage human resources optimally, so that everyone can be placed in a place of their own competence in the court, and I am thinking not only of judges, but also of judicial staff. It is very important to provide factual circumstances, substantive conditions for judgment, and the proper distribution of these among the various institutions, internal justice. It is very important to have the integrity of the court organisation, to have transparent administration of the organisation and to have transparency of judgment, so let people understand why, what the courts are making decisions about, this should not be some vague and incomprehensible legal or legal language, but should people really feel that these decisions are about them. These are all in line with the objectives set out in the Second State Reform Programme, where there are examples of reform of public human capital, reform of public services, reform of public administration; that is, simplification of access to the court, which is also the objective. And we also consider training very important in the court organisation. Many people say and describe the court organisation as a knowledge-based organization, because here the largest percentage of people in the organization are graduates. This is what we want to confirm to everyone that this knowledge actually appears in our daily work. I am sure that the results of 2013 could not have happened if we had not defined these objectives so clearly, if we had not set such targets, but only did we do our job in law. Well, before I say a few words about the results, I would like to highlight a few numbers, and I would like to recall what we are talking about. This court organisation employs 11-12 thousand people, 2807 judges according to the 2013 closure. 68 percent of this number is growing, which is unprecedented in Europe, by the way. One million 647 thousand cases came in 2013. We manage 157 buildings, including buildings that are one of the capital's largest buildings, such as the Metropolitan Tribunal or the PKKB, which was also the anniversary of its 100th anniversary. There are 227 judges in the largest district court, and only one judge in the smallest District Court of Zirc. Finally, some of the results: in 2013 there were 65 percent more cases than in 2011. Can you imagine that? Not only did more cases come in half, but 65 percent more cases came in, and this happened when, indeed, the number of judges between the various levels was reorganized due to retirement. This judiciary, including those involved in retirement and from the last moment or from the very first moment after their return, has been trying to ensure that customers, citizens, are not perceived by the change or confusion that others have experienced in the court organization. This court organisation was able to complete 67 percent more cases in 2013 than in 2011. Can you imagine that? Would there be another organisation capable of dealing with such a large amount of cases as confidently and calmly as the court organisation? I don't think that this kind of willingness to act and to keep calm would describe many other people than us. 86-93 percent of the lawsuits will be completed within a year. 80-90 percent of the lawsuits go up at first instance at the forensic level and at the district court-martial level, a huge qualitative result. Otherwise, it would also be very interesting to show or examine whether there are differences in the counties, because while in the area of the Metropolitan Court, 24 percent is the amount of cases that have been dealt with by appeals, in a county near a border, that this is barely 11 percent. There are a lot of reasons for this, and I'll get back to you. What we can be especially proud of, and I think that this is the pride of the whole country, because judicial work is shown not only by the work of judges, but also by the joint work of lawyers and prosecutors in its effectiveness in timeliness and quality; well, there is a special commission or council of the Council of Europe, called the CEPEJ report, where the annual report is measured where, how many judges are allocated, what budget resources are allocated to it. By the way, we were the sixth countries of the Council of Europe with a GDP ratio of 0.32 in 2012. Another question - and I will mention this - is that we are not in a position to pay. Well, according to this report, the average civil litigation period is 97 days, while the EU average or the Council average is 246 days. I think we can be really proud of this, no matter how much they complain or complain individually about what's going on in some cases. As for the Metropolitan Tribunal, the dismemberment of which has been a long debate here for many years, a centuries-long problem has been solved here. So not only the PKKB's building is centuries old, the problem they've been struggling with has been the burden of work for centuries. Today, in the area of the Metropolitan Court, where 800 judges work, we can say - with some exceptions, perhaps it was the currency-credited economic case - that the burden of the judges, therefore, is the amount of the case that a judge is constantly carrying on one hand, around or below the national average. So when 30-50 percent of the cases are in the capital, it is not negligible what kind of service people or companies in the capital receive, and of course we make sure that no other counties are disadvantaged, and that we try to help everyone to operate more and more in pleasant, better conditions - for customers, of course, primarily. These results could not have been achieved if we had not received sufficient support from Parliament, and this support was part of, as Mr President pointed out, budget support. The court's budget has increased by HUF 26 billion, which is a huge number, and we are now at HUF 90-100 billion, reaching this amount in the period from 2012 to 2013. And indeed, a speaker here rightly quoted that, as far as buildings are concerned, the infrastructure was in a very bad situation. 80 percent of our computers were older than 6 years in 2012; you can imagine how to turn the Internet and electronics. But these problems have been resolved, partly with EU funds. In this respect, we were able to draw six times more funds from EU proposals in 2013 than in 2011; we started building the District Court in Debrecen, in Salgótarján, Miskolc, Cegléd. [[16.40]] There are serious renovation plans for Szeged, the Egri Tribunal, the Gödöllő District Court, Tapolca, and I could still list these cities where we try to give citizens a space where they can feel safe. It has been a major achievement in the way in which the law is to be consulted, and in this, I think that the whole of Europe is envious of Hungarian judges. In the last three years, we have also managed to establish a dialogue with the legal professions, because we have discussed and discussed opinions on the Ptk., Btk. together with prosecutors and lawyers, but we have developed a method where we do not cry about the fact that we have one day to comment on a piece of legislation, but we have established a legal consultation network. We always try to speak and express our opinion in the interest of the court organisation if something changes. This is precisely the result of the results that I have said that we can work much more effectively. This is also part of this, because I could be an example of the infringement case, where, until September 1st last year, one more court secretary had a monthly... - on average, 30,000 trials were held in these cases. So, in one month, we only had to negotiate 30 grand of infringement cases, and today we managed to get this number down to 2500-3000. This means that the 400 court secretary administrators granted in 2012 can now really help judges rather than deal with various non-court cases. As far as legislation is concerned, I would like to say as an interesting fact that on one working day 1.3 laws are what we think, so we deal with the various laws and regulations almost as much as you do here in Parliament. We would also like to thank both the Ministry of Justice and the various committees of Parliament; if our opinions and proposals were forwarded directly, they were ready to support this. We consider it important to have access to the court, to the integrity of the court's organisation, and not to be related to the judgment, but the case-law is indirectly supported by the numerous national projects, programmes that we have launched, such as the Open Court programme. There have been students in the courts, but last year there were 32,000 high school students, judges, court secretaries. Can you imagine how big that is? These professions are performed by judges in social work. There is no other administration, I think, or authority, or anyone who would put so much into young generations, the young generation, learning what the law means, what they should beware of, what they should pay attention to, if they do not want to be victims. We have launched court mediation, where the parties can agree with each other free of charge, with 70 percent agreement rate. Of course, these are not so many, we reached a few hundred in the agreements in the first half of 2014, but this is an absolute novum, a new institution, obviously the thousand-mile journey begins with the first step, as the famous Chinese sage said. So we're hopeful here, too. Within the framework of child-friendly justice, we are determined to establish child-friendly hearing rooms in a court of more than seven. We have already used new forms in these lawsuits, we have trainings, and a lot of the legislative amendments that we have initiated are linked to this. Although there is no Member here who raised it during the day, I would like to refer to the amendments to the legislation and proactivity, and I would also like to ask for your support in this, that the concept of the law on judicial information has been formed for two years. We are trying to describe the problems that should be solved with regard to the protection of litigation data and the public. You can also find serious details about this on the court side, because the debates are public, the materials of the conferences are available to everyone. I also have to give an account of the trainings, as everyone wants the smartest judges on the benches. In 2011, there were 4300 participants in the training, and in 2013 there were 14 thousand participants in the training in the court organisation. I think this song speaks for itself. These trainings were carried out by opening the gates for lawyers, notaries, so hundreds of lawyers, notaries, prosecutors learned the same Ptk curriculum that judges designed for themselves. I would like to quote Deák again, also because today we have these sentences on a giant board in our building. He is happy in a home where the judge's judgment does not only bring justice, but, by trusting his office and his person, he also provides relief to the parties. In fact, this motivates all of us to gain the trust of society. This effort is confirmed by a 2013 survey. According to the Eurobarometer survey, the Hungarian courts are above the EU average in terms of the confidence index in the courts of the Member States. The EU average is 53 percent, with 58 percent of us pushing 16 countries behind us, including all the countries that joined us at the same time. I think it's the result of all of us together. That is why it is important that Parliament, the Parliament, which is the depositary of popular sovereignty, speaks about the judiciary, because it is not possible to create public confidence by talking about each other in a humiliating way, by hitting each other's authority, respect, and by going beyond the limits that reach the limit of fairness. I would also quote from King Matthias a law article whose image and statue are also here in Parliament, just to show that we often think that something is happening to us now, something very topical. But no! Already in Act 54 of 1486, he made a provision: "The judges and the judges are not to be treated with dishonesty. In addition, the parties who have fallen in lawsuits and courts sometimes slander, reduce, and unfairly reproach their judges. It's like they didn't get justice. Most of the time, because of his unjust and damned yelling, there are scandals and other kinds of troubles. Therefore, in order to put a brake on their language, we have all made a common vote to ensure that no one dares to defraud or unfairly discredit the judges, but if anyone thinks that they have received an unjust judgment, it must appeal from them and from the courts with decency, honor and respect to the Royal Highness, the reverend, or to the judge, or to the reverend and the deputy magistrate. I would simply note that the possibility of an appeal is now available to virtually everyone as far as the Constitutional Court in respect of a court ruling. Thank you very much for letting me account for these, and I would also like to say that, of course, we have further plans. We'd like to get from the goose to the smartphone. We would like judges' salaries to reach European standards at last, as well as our work at European level, because, unfortunately, the average net wages of judges in the European Union are the lowest in Hungary. [[16.50]] Ten years ago, there was practically no salary increase, there was an 11 percent salary increase, while inflation was 53 percent; this resulted in a 42 percent real wage reduction, while the average salary increased by HUF 100,000 during this ten-year period, if you look at the total. Of the EU Council states, where Eurasian countries are already listed, we are 35th in net wages, only Albania, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Macedonia, Moldova, Armenia, Serbia, Ukraine. Dear House, I am aware that there are huge expectations of the court organisation, I can assure everyone in this organization that everyone is trying to do better and better, and in this place I thank the judges, judicial staff, secretaries, notaries and leaders who have done a great deal of time to achieve these results. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-12-10-122	Thank you very much, Madam President. I now give the floor to Mr. György Rubovszky, President of the Judicial Committee which made the decision. You have the floor, Mr. President of the Commission.
u2014-12-10-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Madam President, What I said before Mr Péter Darák's hearing about the order of the hearings, so that, in fact, it was a house rule decision that this is in front of the plenum today, which is, by the way, very right, is also valid here. Then, on 30 October, the Judicial Committee listened to the oral presentation of the President's report. I would like to point out that there are currently three members of the Judicial Committee who have been a member of the National Judicial Council for a shorter or longer period of time and have been members of countless former lawyers. I say this by saying that I was personally forced to suspend my practice as a lawyer after 44 years of chamber membership in May of this year because of conflict of interest rules. So technically, we were involved in the report of the President of the National Judicial Council, both professionally and in preparation. As he listened to the report, he convinced us that the Court's Office was on the right track, convinced me personally that this judicial transformation had proved successful and successful. With respect, then a decision was taken at the committee meeting, the result of the decision was that none of the nine members present had spoken against the adoption of the report, with eight yes and one abstention, the committee accepted the report and voted in the same proportion to submit the parliamentary decision. I would then respectfully ask that this proposal for a resolution should be discussed and adopted by this House. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-10-124	Mr President of the Commission, thank you. Dear Parliament, I am asking whether the Secretary of State Répássy wishes to speak on behalf of the Government. It says no. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Demeter, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2014-12-10-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Fidesz and the KDNP faction, we thanked Mrs President for the report, which was previously received by members of the Judicial Committee. At the hearing of the report before the committee, as Mr President said, we all agreed that the most important task of the court is to create legal certainty, to maintain stability and stability, but, of course, there is also a need for changes, since the various living conditions in society do not leave the legal system intact. First of all, allow me, fellow Members, to mention the legislative environment from which the National Court Office started. Changes in the last 25 years show that Parliament and Hungarian society have sought solutions to ensure that justice is increasingly effective. In 1997, all powers and responsibilities separated from the two branches of power were transferred to the powers of a municipal body, most of which involved judges. However, the functioning of the panel did not deliver the expected results and could not be sufficiently effective. In fact, the body operated without control, their decisions were not questionable by any other body. The President of the National Judicial Council was thus also the President of the Supreme Court in one person, so he could not have had enough time to serve and strengthen the legal unity while operating the administration. In 2010, it was already apparent that the system could not be maintained in this form. Recognizing the problem, many tasks have been transferred from the powers of the National Judicial Council to the powers of the OIT President, but these transfers have still not brought the expected results in terms of ensuring the timeliness of cases and strengthening the legal unit. In 2011, we finally decided to establish a system in which the system of brakes and balances can operate within the judicial body itself. This led to the establishment of a redesigned council, a national office of the President of the Court extending the administrative powers of the President of the OIT, and a president of the Curia, who has a separate professional function. Although the new model has been criticised in the period since then, we see that the impact of the processes that have started is already felt, and we can also see that the burden on a judge has become significantly more balanced. Dear Parliament, However, the National Judicial Council remained as a municipal body. This body now has a partly control role, co-decision powers and an independent decision-making power on a number of important issues. The decisions of the President of the National Court of Justice may be reviewed either before the Constitutional Court or by the ordinary courts. Finally, I would also highlight the increased role of the public, because the report through the House is an obligation not only to the Parliament but also to the entire Hungarian society. In this context, considering the report submitted, we believe that the achievement of the technical and strategic objectives set out is on the right track. [[17.00]] In particular, we consider the simultaneous implementation of timely and high-quality judgments at all court levels to be of particular importance, the integrity of the judicial body, the transparency, predictability and control of the judicial and administrative work, as the greater the trust in an organisation in society, the more transparent its functioning. Progress can also be seen in many other areas. The number of cases that have been pending for more than one year has decreased, as Madam President has said, and there has been an improvement in timeliness. We welcomed the fact that the Metropolitan Court could have particularly spectacular results, fewer cases over two years, and more cases over five years, and the rate of completion exceeded its arrival. And we also agree that the statistics must clearly show how long it takes from the submission of an action to the legal force, because citizens are interested in how quickly their ongoing case will be completed, how long it will take to reach a final decision. That is why we are pleased to hear that there has indeed been positive progress in this area. We see that the National Court Office has managed well with the additional resources and additional status that the budget has made available to the Office, and we hope in the future that the process that has started in these areas will continue. We also consider it important that the National Court Office always has a high level of participation in the opinion of the legislation, that cooperation with the legislator is achieved, and that the aspects that are of paramount importance in the application of the law are put to our attention. We would like to thank Madam President for this and ask that this cooperation continue in the future between Parliament and the National Court of Justice. I would also like to mention as a positive point the new legal institutions and programmes established by the National Court of Justice Office, since the priority is to strengthen the nature of the service provider of the courts and to strengthen the scope of Article XXI. Adapting it to the needs of the century. In the framework of this, the Open Court programme, child-centred justice, witness care, or judicial mediation could rise to the status of the national programme. It is also worth mentioning the development of the training system implemented by the coordinating role of the Hungarian Academy of Justice, bearing in mind that only qualified judges can comply with the constitutional obligation of high standards. We are confident that these progress and the objectives set will continue. The 2013 year has shown that the court organisation is able to create and improve the effectiveness of its operation while preserving traditions, respecting the achievements and efforts of its predecessors, and effectively cooperate with the Curia and the National Council of the Court of Justice. As far as we are concerned, as a committee or as Members, we can assure the President that we will continue to be ready for the Office in the future if we can help the process by any legislative amendment or legislation to bring the judicial proceedings to an end within a reasonable time, so that the objectives set are achieved and not hindered. We all agree that there really are great opportunities for the court's organization. We hope that the steps we have taken so far have convinced everyone that the reform of justice has not been in vain, and we also hope that all these measures will give customers and citizens greater legal certainty than before. On this basis, I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the 2013 report of the President of the National Court of Justice. Finally, I wish Mrs President, of course, all her colleagues and good health, to continue with the work. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-10-126	Thank you, Congressman Demeter. I now give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-12-10-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Madam President! On 15 September 2014, the President of the National Court of Justice submitted a report on OBH's activities in 2013. The report summarises the self-assessment of the president of the OBH in a total of 215 numbered pages. The introduction to the report considers the work of the OBH to be spectacularly effective. Madam President, he believes that the work of the OBH has been in line with the strategic objectives previously set, and that there has been tangible progress in the work of the courts. As a success of administrative activity, the material reports that the number of cases in court has decreased over one year and that there has been an improvement in timeliness. The Metropolitan Court may have particularly spectacular results, where the number of cases over two years and over five years has decreased and the rate of termination has exceeded its arrival. Successful EU proposals, continuous judicial IT development will guide the way towards optimal working conditions. It can be seen that strengthening the customer-centred nature of the courts, service provider, is the intended administrative objective. The report considers the programmes launched to this end to be popular, both among the collaborators and among citizens. We find a number of points in the report that we do not want to argue with ourselves, and we agree with them, although popularity is not always one of them. The report highlights, both as a requirement and as a goal, the high level and timely judgment of the courts. The President of the OBH believes that, I quote, the first year after a long period of time in 2013 was when it became nationally apparent that this goal could be achieved. The question, Honourable Parliament, is which way and by what kind of means and by the use of administrative methods can we draw closer to this goal. There is no dispute in the need to reduce primarily the workload of judges in order to achieve both quality and timely judgment at the same time. The less cases, the administrative burden on the judge, the more strength and time you can devote to substantive judgment. This includes the criteria for the selection of judges. To hear about highly qualified candidates who have been unable to reach their judicial appointment for several years, even though their professional work is recognised at a high level. But this includes the case of forced retirement judges. The President of the OBH is pleased about how the ex-post regulation dealt with the case of retired judges in relation to measures and compensations due to the legal maximum age. It seems that the president of the OBH is satisfied with this situation. This is probably why you forget to mention that the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Constitutional Court have forced the Government and the majority of the Parliament of national cooperation to settle the situation of retired judges. The report also acknowledges that the trials of the judges up to the age limit were a significant additional task in 2013. On the basis of the contested provision of the Law on the status and remuneration of Judges, in 2012, the President of the Republic relieved 231 judges of his duties as judges as a result of reaching the maximum age. [[17.10]] The Constitutional Court established that the above legal bases were unlawful and annulled with effect from the date of their entry into force on 1 January 2012. In 2013, the trial of 157 judges of the upper age was finalized either at first or at second instance. Here, I would like to remind you that the defendant's courts have been suspended for a total of HUF 139 million and for payment of their contributions. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we can therefore say that the retirement of experienced judges has cost taxpayers a great deal. Especially if you add the amount that OBH spent on legal expenses. In fact, the report notes that the number of employees in the legal representation department of OBH would not have been able to carry out the additional task of representation and that, therefore, a contract was concluded with a lawyer's office. It's obvious that the selected law firms couldn't protect the indefensible. It is also evident that the judge's experience and case-law cannot soon be replaced, and this is not helped by the appointment of administrative leaders close to power in political loyalty. It is not surprising, but it must be said here that the Court's leaders are told of the results of the report that forced retirement judges have not been reinstated in their positions of leadership. The President of the OBH shall also have the power of appointment of the chairmen, vice-chairs and head of the college, as well as the heads of the colleges of the regional administrative and labour colleges and the deputy head of the college. On 31 December 2013, 435 appointed administrative directors and 310 appointed head of professional councils, i.e. a total of 745 court leaders, were appointed for a limited period of time. The President of the OBH was appointed to 117 of these administrative management posts. In 2013, 39 posts under the mandate of the President of the OBH were vacant. Of these, 11 was opened before 13, 28 in 2013. Of the posts concerned, 38 became vacant with one resignation, and 38 with the end of the appointment period. In order to fill in the vacant status, proposals have been issued and evaluated on an ongoing basis. In 2013, 30 posts were filled, leaving 9 management posts vacant at the end of the year. In 26 cases, the president of the OBH considered the proposals in line with the opinion body's proposal. On page 37 of the report, however, we find that in one case the proposed candidate did not receive the support of the majority of the opinion body. However, in the following sentence, OBT agreed to the appointment. The question is whether we understand correctly: was there a candidate whose appointment was not agreed by the opinion bodies? Let's hope we just didn't get a good look at the report. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The report mentions in several places how legislation has helped to simplify procedures in order to reduce the workload. We don't have a fight on our own. The real simplification of procedures is an important issue for all political forces. Rather, the question is whether the President of the OBH has made a professional proposal or agreed to amendments to the law that have limited the right to appeal. In the Member States of law, they are very careful to undermine the right to appeal. It is almost feared that the next report by the president of the OBH describes the reduction of the burden of the courts by 20-25 percent in one blow, thanks to the legislator. Why do I say "fearful"? Well, my honourable members of the Government, because it doesn't matter how this change can be achieved. Lajos Kósa explained in his interview with the Watcher on 10 July 2014 that, although he noted that the lawyers would immediately throw their brains out, as he said, that up to certain limits of value, there should be only one right of review, or - he said Lajos Kósa - let's say, under a certain threshold, anyone who wants to sue, but pay for the entire administrative costs, there is no tax exemption, there are no discounts. In short, I would warn the President of the OBH that in such a way to reduce the burden on the court, the current governing party should be partnered as a professional leader. I believe that it is the reduction of the judge's personal administrative burden, i.e. serving judicial activity in a noble sense, that can bring about substantial changes in a sustainable way. It is not a rousing situation if we look at the decisions taken by the European Court of Human Rights in 2013, especially on today's symbolic day. The European Court of Human Rights ruled on 35 judicial proceedings in 2013. Of these, in 33 - 7 criminal and 26 civil proceedings - the judiciary found that the European Convention on Human Rights was violated and that there was an obligation to compensate. In 2013, over HUF 320 million of damages were paid for 91 cases due to the delay in the Hungarian court proceedings. It would have been good if the report had been more thorough in terms of the circumstances that could have led to this, since it is clear that no one can be proud of these data. Ladies and gentlemen, We can use the suspicion that the continued transformation of the court organisation has not contributed positively to improving the circumstances of the judicial work. As regards district courts, the report states that as of 1 January 2013, the name of the city courts changed to district court, while maintaining the name of the metropolitan district courts. This change did not affect the jurisdiction of the courts. It was therefore possible to preserve the geographical breakdown of the courts at first instance, while the system of administrative districts was designed in some places with different coverage. Perhaps the question could be asked, and I would also like you to answer that, Madam President, what reason do you see that Parliament is still not discussing the bill on the establishment of a place of law for district courts. Is there, could there be a basis for the news that a central district court would provide for the assessment of politically frequented cases? Since the right to appoint a case has so many times knocked out the fuse? Is there any basis for waiting for the adoption of the bill? Not that we are opposed to any rational and life-like restructuring, but the news related to it troubles us, everyone who is still trying to protect the remnants of the rule of law embodied in judicial independence. Dear Parliament, The report devotes a specific heading to the case of foreign exchange lenders. It sets out the extent to which the number of these cases has increased, given that the lawsuits to challenge unfair contractual terms have increased the number of lawsuits falling within the jurisdiction of the court. The president of the OBH thanks in his report for his own foresight that the increase in the threshold of lawsuits falling within the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice in two steps from 5 million to 30 million forints was still manageable for the courts. Let's not discuss this result. However, in the context of the report, the question arises as to whether there is a basis for the news that government contact points in the courts coordinate the conduct of legal proceedings in connection with the latter foreign exchange-credit regulation and ask for information about these lawsuits. What influence does the government have on the government's part of the judiciary? This is an important question, which I would like to clarify. As well as the fact that what Madam President has achieved is a real result that the law on complaints and announcements of public interest also covers the courts. The report shows that the number of complaints has increased. We can also see from the statement by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights that, until 30 October 2014, no 270 announcements of public interest to the Ombudsman's office may apply to courts, while 40 cases of justified and typically corruption of 100 notifications and reports of VAT and other tax fraud, fortunately, the courts are not affected by these notifications. Ladies and gentlemen, So far, my speech was about the administrative part and the administrative report, the statistics and the organisation system, but after talking about a new institutional system, it is impossible to bypass its leader and the person of its head. The President of the National Court Office shall be elected by Parliament for nine years from among the Judges on the proposal of the President of the Republic. The election of the President of the National Court Office requires two-thirds of the votes of the Members of Parliament. [[17.20]] Independence is a requirement for the President of the National Court of Justice as a judge, and for the public official elected by Parliament, it is a fundamental requirement to stay away from party politics. Looks like the last one's not gonna make it. It does mean something, however, if the lack of impartiality of a public official objects to the left by a publicist who cannot be called the least. Katalin Kondor's article "The Third Powers" considers that justice, namely judicial power, was at risk when it got in the way of power. It seems that the independence of justice is now at risk because it has been placed in the hands of the authority. The article summarized the errors made, citing lawyers, as follows. I quote a few of these: It was a mistake to appoint the Prime Minister's family friend to the head of the OBH. It was a mistake because, according to the general opinion, he is unfit for unlimited full power because of his personality. 'Cause the person who e-mails his coworkers an e-mail order for morning delivery doesn't do the right thing. Because the person who neglects the older generation and works to remove them is damaging the profession. Because the person who has not been appointed as OIT leader despite his previous request, because he was considered unfit, is not unbiased. Because anyone who doesn't appear in the public event of the chosen right-wingers, which none of his predecessors have allowed themselves, proves his political bias. It was a mistake to force him into the judiciary despite the fact that the Prime Minister personally saw the guarantee to implement his expectations. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We also see that it was a mistake. For those who are biased cannot be the head of the administration of independent justice. If you are biased, you are deceived, or snail-likely adapted. If you're biased and you don't give it to appearances, you can see through it. And if you're like that, you can't afford to keep going. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-10-128	Thank you. I now give the floor to György Rubovszky, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2014-12-10-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to announce that I did not wish to speak, all the more so, because my fellow Member, Mr Demeter, began his speech by saying on behalf of the Fidesz Christian Democratic Group, and I felt that he had done the work for me. However, the previous speech forces me to comment in my person. I mentioned that I personally was a member of the National Judicial Council in two cycles. The accusations that Congressman Bellozó has just made, I find them completely out of the air, completely unfounded and simply incomprehensible to me. For the sake of historical loyalty, I would like to say that, at the time, András Baka was president of the National Judicial Council, and the Office had no Registrar, so a tender was issued. I recall that Tünde Handó participated twice in the competition, and never once did they declare his incompetence. You should look in the mirror, and you're the incompetent person who dares to say such things in public. Dear fellow Member, It was simply a shocking thing, and it is amazing to me that an opposition Member would take the impossible position to say such an honorable sentence. My dear fellow Member, I would very much ask you to consider this and, before you make unfortunate quotes, read it and try to find out their authenticity. To me, it was simply unacceptable and shocking. However, I would like to say that, on behalf of the Christian Democratic Group, we support the adoption of the resolution proposal, and I would ask the Parliament to vote in favour. And here, as President of the Commission, I would like to refer to a remark such as this at the Justice Committee meeting, thanks to God, that has never been said before this year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-10-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-12-10-131	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I'd like to get the debate back on track. I believe that the report by the National Court of Justice is a matter of sufficient severity to keep us on professional grounds. I will, of course, give criticism, but I will adequately support it. I would like to start by saying that we consider the report to be detailed, well-educated, and that is not a problem, so we saw a thorough work from the Court's Office when it was drawn up. I hope that we will be able to read reports of similar detail in the future, and that not only from the National Court Office, but also from other organisations that also have to report to Parliament, will do so in similar detail. Since 2011, and this is also included in the report, the annual budget of the courts has increased by HUF 18 billion. This is a good direction, because the courts were very underfunded. We hope that the current level will remain or even increase in the future. There were a lot of missed investments to be completed, these materials are included, and practitioners, lawyers, judges and judges can say that they are very important, and those who go to court negotiations may experience renovations and investments. I would add that these should have happened a long time ago. Most of these funds have gone to short-term and short-term investments. And all the more we hope that the situation will normalize in the future, because the judges' wages, I wrote to myself, nine years ago, stagnant, but Madam President said ten years, then I will take ten years. So, nine to ten years ago, we've actually been talking about the fact that he didn't rise significantly, but in real terms, the salaries of judges have decreased. This is unacceptable and it is also the lowest in the Union. We hope that Parliament will provide the appropriate framework for this in the future. I also received information that, for example, a court clerk with a rating of 4/1 will bring home HUF 118 thousand gross money. This is very low and it is difficult to expect responsible work for this amount. So when we think about settling wages, not only for judges, but also for other workers, it is hopefully going to happen. The material says that the number of written warnings has doubled compared to 2012, and I understand that no one has asked for this to be done, which I believe is an interesting circumstance. Either everyone accepted the written warning or dared not take the risk of a disciplinary action. Hearing such things from within the court system is that there are some tense atmospheres, and perhaps the written warnings that have been given may refer to this. Madam President, you will certainly be able to answer how the increase in the number of warnings has resulted. Of course, we are not saying that there should be no judicial work, because in many cases we have said that the performance of judges must also be assessed within the judicial system, but of course it is not necessarily a good thing to fall on the other side of the horse, and in the future the number of disciplinary penalties and proceedings may be bitten. Obviously, we will find out in detail in the coming years. [[17 .30]] I would just like to draw attention to the fact that there appears to be such a trend here between 2012 and 2013. What I heard as a criticism was that, as a complaint received, for example, in connection with foreign exchange credit cases, all foreign exchange credit claims were suspended in many cases. As far as I know, it was 12,000 lawsuits. So not only those that affected the exchange rate gap or the unilateral amendment of the contract, because in these cases, I am aware that these procedures had to be suspended, but the courts chose a simpler way. In many cases, the suspension of these lawsuits took place automatically, in some cases not adequately evaluated what the lawsuit was about. I would like to draw attention to this: if this was the case, then perhaps, as they say, the knife ran over in case of suspension of cases that should not have been dealt with under the law. We have often criticized the possibility given by the law that opened up the powers of appointment of the President of the National Court of Justice. This was obviously the subject of a parliamentary debate as to why we created these laws in this way. We criticized the government a few times back in the day. I think that in some cases we see criticism back. My information is that it is difficult to understand, for example, that the courts in Szombathely and Szeged have not had a proper president for many years, only those in charge. If Madam President is able to respond to this, we are also happy to see why. What we were glad to see in the material is the child-centred justice program. This is a very important area in which progress can be seen, and we hope that these investments and the development of child-friendly justice can continue in the future. This is indeed a good direction. In the same way, classroom classes and the open court program are mentioned, on the one hand, my first reaction to which was that this was a good initiative. Then I have received such critical comments from professional circles, and I must also share with you the question of how much this burden is on judges in a situation where there is a heavy burden on the case, and they are working with great force to work off the backlog of recent years. So it is not too soon, if you may ask, whether we are opening up to young people, but there are still a lot of cases ahead. Perhaps the energies should be focused here in the first round. Theoretically, you can agree with his direction, but I'm not sure that this is the most recent form. By the way, in my personal opinion, it may be more effective to show a bv institution if we are to present the deterrent force to young people or where it is not worth getting to. But of course, this programme can be assessed as a strategic objective. We don't really benefit from customer satisfaction measurement, I'll tell you the truth. For the courts, this can be applied only to administration, customer service activities, courtesy and attitudes. So, I'm guessing it doesn't mean that if someone gets six years in prison, it's good or not enough, or how polite the judge was to him. Obviously, that's not what you're trying to do. That's what I'm seeing. The question is whether, unfortunately, underpaid and burdened administration should be burdened further in this situation with a customer satisfaction measurement, which, as I said, is of little practical use to us. But, of course, we can be persuaded if there is still background information available here compared to what has been written in the material. Allow us, Madam President, to take another critical point. This is also a feedback received. When I was prepared for my speech, I asked practicing lawyers and lawyers for comments that I could share here. There have been many complaints in the direction of the Civilian Office of the Metropolitan Tribunal. These concerned, I do not know how much they are overworked here, obviously there are quite a lot of cases, but in practice they find that in the case of the 60-day deadline, when, say, a foundation or association receives a request for a change, and it would be 60 days before the court decides or issues a deficiency, often up to ten months, almost a year, and then it will be completed. This has been reported repeatedly by law practitioners. And there's not much of an appeal, there's not much they can do about it. This can make the operation of civil society organisations very difficult, given that if, say, a supervisory board member or a board member has to wait nearly a year to register, this does not have to explain to you how much it can make the organisation itself impossible to function. So that's all I wanted to say in brief here in the lead speaker's round. Besides, we also want to thank working judges and judicial staff who often carry out their activities with low pay and heavy workload. I very much hope that the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian State will be in a state in which, let us say, the budget for next year will be drawn up, written and adopted so that their work can be adequately compensated, and that the wages and wage arrangements of judicial staff and judges will be properly organised, and we will not be the last in this respect in the European Union. Thank you for listening. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2014-12-10-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre says yes.]] No further comments were received. Therefore, the joint general debate is closed... Csaba Gyüre? He hasn't checked in, just now, as I say. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: When Mr. President spoke, I applied.]] Here, Congressman Csaba Gyüre, I give you the floor.
u2014-12-10-133	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'm sorry I pushed the button late, I just thought there were other speakers, and I only pressed it when Mr President said so. I would also like to express a few points to the report by President Tünde Hando. We've been listening to the good results here, and we're very happy for you. We are very pleased that there has indeed been a significant budgetary increase in the judicial case, in the budgetary framework of the courts. In this regard, we have repeatedly indicated in the last four years with my fellow Member Gábor Staudt and then with my fellow Member Gaudi, even when amending the Fundamental Law, that when we talk about a classic, genuine democracy and the separation of powers, we consider it very, very important that the independence and independence of the courts should be as complete as possible and less dependent on each other. Obviously, when we talk about the relationship between Parliament and the court, both the reporting obligation and the guaranteeing of the budget can create some kind of influence. In this we had proposals in which we wanted as much autonomy as possible, so that the budget is already regulated at the level of the basic law, so that a certain percentage of the budget should always fit the courts, and that Parliament should not influence the budget of the courts, as appropriate, so as to ensure as much independence as possible. Unfortunately, we have not been able to achieve this direction in the adoption of the Fundamental Law or in the creation of new legislation over the last four years. We hope that this can be done in the future, if necessary, and that we have certainly not given up on doing so. The rather disappointing information that Madam President has said is 65 percent, if I remember correctly, about the increase in case files, which is certainly causing a huge strain on the courts. And Madam President has also said that there has been a certain increase in staff at the same time. He didn't mention a percentage of it here in his speech. It's obviously way behind this 65 percent increase in the file number. [[17.40]] So this means that the per capita case number of judges has probably increased radically in the last two years, although I have seen in the accounts that the number of endings has increased, but at the same time, the judicial burden, one main judge, and - let us not forget - the people working around judges, not to mention case managers, descriptive agents and everyone who works in it, is even more burdened at the same time. Madam President, he spoke about the fact that the increased burden, quality work and professional standards are not accompanied by the salary of judges. I would like to say that I would like to inform Madam President that we have tabled, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary, a related amendment to the budget. We have seen the need for a minimum of 30 per cent of budgetary growth in the wage sector in the judicial field at the moment. This proposal has been made both in the courts and in the prosecutors' offices, since, obviously, the pay framework is the same for both public prosecutors and courts on the basis of the law. This was based specifically on what Madam President said, which is the monetary appreciation of the work of courts, court workers and, in particular, judges and prosecutors within the European Union. You have also reported that, at the moment, Hungary is unfortunately in the last place for net wages in the European Union. That is why we suggested 30 percent, which, however, does not compensate for the level we talked about; if I remember correctly, you mentioned a 43 percent real wage, so that is not compensated to any extent by the 30 percent, but something at this moment, if we are looking at the scarce budget, it would be acceptable in comparison to that. So we also need to see that even in the case of a 30 per cent wage development, we do not leave the framework we are in need of, because in the case of 30 per cent wage development, we will also prevent or catch up with judges from both countries, because if I calculated correctly, it would only prevent payments in Bulgaria in this case, in the case of a 30 per cent wage development, the salary of the judges in Hungary, and it is one of the Baltic States, Lithuania, that would be about the same. So I think that the government has a very big responsibility here in this area when adopting the final figures of the budget, obviously considering that we are lost somewhere in the budget if we want to add it to it, but obviously, if we are talking about a separate branch of power in Hungary, and we want to continue with the process that Madam President has talked about, that we are going to have excellent professional standards, well-trained judges with high education and continuous training - and it is very welcome that we have tripled in a relatively short time, in two years, the number of judges involved in training - if we want to have a high level of professionalism, and if we really want the courts to have the graduates who have completed university students who have a real career model, who are the best who have the most talented, because that is why we need to strengthen the confidence in the court that they are best, it is necessary to have the right financial value for the judges. That's why we thought of that. If we look at this small list of payments, this statistics in the European Union, then we see that 5th to 6th in many cases the salaries of the judges in Hungary, and, as I said, with this 30 percent, we would only end up in the last place in the dead race with Lithuania. So we cannot stress this enough to finally be heard in the right place. I am very pleased that this has been given serious emphasis, Madam President. And, of course, not only the judges, but also the prosecutors' salaries would also change at the same time. We have also heard about the legislative opinion and how much emphasis you are constantly putting on it. We are also very happy about this, because they are the ones who are going to decide in the application of the legislation, they are going to see the real problems, so they are the ones who are looking at how the new amendments that have been included in the legislation will come down when the judiciary has to decide on the basis of these new laws. That is why we consider it very useful that if we keep this, as Madam President has said, that we will have one legislative proposal per day or that we will have more than one bill per day, because it is very important for us that we get the opinions of professional organisations in as many directions as possible, that we can take them into account in more directions, and that it is possible to create a law for the broadest possible part of society here, and that Parliament can make the best legislation possible. And for the future, we ask that this work be continued, which has begun here. However, I would also like to say a few words about the fact that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary expressly disagreed with the two-thirds majority position on the retirement of judges. We have been criticising this all along, from the very first moment, and obviously it could have been no small difficulty in the courts, both in the light of the increased workload, taking into account the number of judges who have fallen out of work, and the fact that such a case is obviously disrupting the internal world of judicial workers, as it has affected not only those who have been forced to retire, but also other court workers, because this meant that anything could be changed so seriously and drastically in relation to the legal status of judges at any time. So we felt this was a decision by the two-thirds majority that threatened the independence of the courts at the time. We're very happy that we didn't get through this either. As was the case, it was not possible to pass through the possibility that it would have been possible to break the rules of civil procedure when selecting cases, when choosing jurisdiction, and to determine jurisdiction from above. This was also not a positive thing on the part of the legislative, two-thirds majority. We're glad they're out of the way, and at the moment, they're not real. We hope that there will be no other kind of attack in this regard in the future than what we believe is primarily related to the retirement of judges, namely judicial independence. With just one more thought about why it is very important that the remuneration of judges is directly proportional to the work and performance they provide. Judicial independence is extremely important. We also need to see that judges do not have the same legal status as others, because they have a number of obligations in relation to judicial work. They can't take a second job unless it's very, very narrow. They must live an exemplary life in all respects, for they are considered to be accepted by the people from whom they must receive the judgment, as you have quoted from King Matthias' judgments, how not to accuse a judge of dishonesty or other things. They also need to have a basis for this, so they need to pursue a way of life. Then they can't participate in political life like others. And there are many other restrictions on judges, and in addition to professional skills and professional knowledge, this must obviously be taken into account when setting the budget. Thank you very much. That's all I wanted to say. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt applauds.]]
u2014-12-10-134	Thank you, Congressman. According to the screen, no one else came forward to speak. The joint general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mrs Tünde Hando, President of the National Court of Justice, author of the item on the agenda. Madam President, you have the floor. [[17.50]]
u2014-12-10-135	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Several questions have been raised, and I find it difficult to answer the first question because of the type of system of opinion and, to say the basic democracy that has been developed within the court organisation, it is really difficult for all outsiders to understand, since in this organization there are judicial councils working alongside the courts, who express their opinion. There are all-judge meetings, they are on judging boards, in Kuria - we call it a full meeting there - in all courts, who are of crucial importance for a single application, since they give an opinion on management applications. In fact, the judicial councils rank applications, not only in a way, but the law itself defines objective and subjective criteria, and even an IM regulation breaks down what, what criteria can be evaluated by the judiciary. So there is indeed a very complicated way to get our President of the Republic to appoint a candidate for a judicial position, but there are a lot of participants in this process when these rankings are formed. As far as driving applications are concerned, I think that this was just an excellent example and an excellent example of all the concerns that had been raised in relation to the new administrative model at the time, in fact, must disperse or disperse over the three years. After all, according to the example cited, the majority opinion of 26 candidates was the decision of the opinion body, and it was one case where it was completely different, and then there is the quasi veto or the right of agreement of the National Judicial Council, and it was justified in their view that this kind of difference was also justified. So what is true of this administrative model is that all, even personal decisions, must be constantly explained, and it is also typical that we explain our decisions without legal authority or obligation in any case. As regards the reduction of appeals, the scope of the appeal or review has only increased in the last three years; this has been the case in 2013 and 2012. As far as the legislative and joint district courts proposal is concerned, which is before the House, and has not been dealt with in a long time, it is important to know that there are 111 district courts in the country and that there are 6 judges or less in 70% of them. Around us, from Italy to Finland, the size of court organisations is streamlined, so there are no independent courts with less than 10 judges. It would be a solution if we could bring these organizations together. This would not necessarily affect the maintenance of buildings, but it would ensure that when 70 percent of women judges leave a court of three, let's say the three-year court, there must be a judge there who judges, since clients cannot wait three years for their legal judge. So one way to do this is to increase the number of organisations, and, of course, to do so, we need to provide judges with the right means of transport and the right conditions. I'm just surprised because it's the second time I've heard from your representatives on the left that they're government coordinators in court. I don't know where they get such nonsense, there are, of course, no government coordinators in the courts. This is the independence of the judiciary, the court is coordinated by the court leaders, the judges are your notaries and your assistants, so it must have been a completely wrong rumor. The other news or rumours he brought up, I would like to start by saying that I will not miss answering that, of course, that, as I have shown, there has been a huge change in the organization. So when a lot of people have to step out of the comfort zone, even in an Open Court program, not because it would be mandatory, but because it is unpleasant for a highly qualified person to stay out of a social responsibility program; so, yes, sometimes judges are actually faced with a decision to do something not necessarily in place of their work, but in addition to their work and their free time, which has not previously been so massively typical. But they're not all obligations to judges or court secretaries, they're all taking as much of this as they can take, but their profits are very, very good. They already indicate in their university records that they speak differently about law, even though we have only been continuing this program for two years, but they already have a much greater knowledge of law, and I am sure that this will have a serious impact on the knowledge of the law of a new generation for several years. Back to these rumours, the other, which I am fortunately rarely confronted with, is a very natural human quality; in this organization, dedication has been characteristic for decades, so there are leaders, judges, in the organization who have been serious about their profession and have wanted to solve a lot of things. It may not feel good to see that something that they started or something that they really wanted to solve quickly, spectacularly, some did not succeed to this extent, and now, as I said, we have solved a centuries-old problem at the Metropolitan Tribunal. So, of course, it gives rise to grievances. My opinion is that without knowing the results, of course, to myself, but I think that everyone in this organization will add the best that they can, so that we can work to the satisfaction of society. As far as social satisfaction is concerned, it is also important to monitor the compliance of judges and employees with administrative rules. This is why the number of warnings and disciplinary proceedings has increased. These are judgments that have not been written down on time, or cases that have not been set, which are more watched or watched by the leaders, and there is a record of them. As far as foreign exchange-credit suspensions are concerned, this administration also shows the power of the court organisation, since in 20 days 12 thousand cases have been processed by courts, court secretaries, at the beginning of the legislative break or during the legislative break, when others have spent their well-planned freedom. There was no single complaint to me about the suspension in a case that was not justified, but if it came to the courts, they could and had to solve it very simply, since a suspended case could be carried out at any time, it could not have been a problem. As far as the Szeged Tribunal and the Szombathely Tribunal are concerned, I can reassure everyone, have appointed presidents of both courts, and have had great support for the 50 per cent or more of these candidates and the opinion bodies. As regards customer satisfaction, several courts established customer charts in 2014, in which they undertook to provide quality services at the management office or otherwise in the course of the administration. [[18.00]] This is a huge courage from the courts to offer quality services to customers who apply to the courts, and this is why it is important to measure customer satisfaction. I didn't hear that this would be a burden, but I heard that based on an entry, they were thinking and doing things differently, which could be very simple little things, even when or at what frequency they take the documents from customers. So these are all very useful. One of our slogans is that every complaint is a gift, we can build on everything, and we don't mind criticism or comments, because we also think that the greater satisfaction would be good for all of us. While I was wandering around, I looked at the Internet, and I saw them talking about how many people regret how few of us are in this room. There was an entry in which someone wrote that it was a waste to heat up this hall in Parliament. Well, I didn't feel any signs of heating up, because from 8:00 a.m., we're in here like we're in Antarctica. [[Defiance.]] However, I would very much like to thank you for your presence, your attention, and, of course, everything you have said or what we have said is not only for those who are personally present, but also for those who observe or perhaps read back these records, as we do in the minutes of a hundred years ago. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-10-136	Thank you very much, Madam President. If you wish to speak, I will give the floor to the rapporteur, György Rubovszky, Chairman of the Judicial Committee.
u2014-12-10-137	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'll be very brief, with all due respect. In fact, there was a substantive criticism of the report, namely that Hungary paid compensation in 2013 due to the delay in cases not included in the report. I would like to draw attention to the fact that if this fine was paid in 2013, the delay in the procedure giving rise to it is a much earlier period, i.e. it does not apply to 2013. In these circumstances, I would only ask with respect that the Parliament kindly support the motion for a decision of the Judicial Committee and accept the report. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-10-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that it is only possible to submit an amendment to the proposal for a decision. The amendments may be tabled by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. The speaker after the agenda withdrew his intention to speak. I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 15 December and an extraordinary meeting on 16 December. Thank you for your work. Good evening. The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 6:04 p.m.]]
