u2017-11-15-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, Welcome to you and everyone who monitors our work. The 21st day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Loránt Hegedűs and Attila Móring József will be notaries to help me. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian Parliament 49/2015. Two years ago, Gábor Bethlen declared November 15th, the day of the birth and death of the Transylvanian prince of Transylvania, the day of the Hungarian sporadic. The importance of the Memorial Day is shown by the fact that only a few years have passed between the first commemoration and the adoption of the parliamentary resolution. The first ceremony organized on the initiative of the Hungarian Democratic Alliance of Romania was held in 2011 in Déva, Hunyad County. The central ceremony held two years later in Hungary already extended to the entire Carpathian Basin, and after another two years, in 2015, the parliamentary decision was made on the day of the Hungarian sporadic. Ladies and gentlemen, Under the Fundamental Law, Hungary undertakes a fate community with Hungarians living across the border, embraces the promotion of the survival and development of communities, and supports initiatives to preserve Hungarians. What does it mean to live in sporadics, separated from the bloc? Sporadic Hungarians across the border live in a disadvantaged linguistic and ethnic environment, isolated from the national body. Due to the breakdown of the institutional system, the preservation of Hungarians is even more difficult compared to the block Hungarians, and assimilation is even stronger. It is also difficult to estimate the number of sporadic Hungarians. In the Carpathian Basin, the number of Hungarians living in a permanent foreign language medium is between 200,000 and 1 million, sporadicisation is increasing. People living in sporadic communities lack the experience of a unified culture, the natural context of the use of mother tongue is unknown. Consciousness other than majority culture exerts strong pressure on those who know only minority existence. In addition to the phenomenon of isolation and social background, the danger of material inability is common. To them, keeping their Hungarians is a serious challenge, purely from the inside. Dear Parliament, The aim of the Hungarian Sporadic Day is to draw attention to Hungarians living away from the majority nation and to the difficulties of preserving their Hungarians. 15 November is the symbol that Hungarians living in the outskirts and scattered areas are not alone despite their isolation. At the same time, let us salute the sporadic workers who perform their duties in a strong contrast. Sporadic care professionals do the everyday work required to survive, and they face isolation every day, loss of community life and language use, as well as the consequences of this and the integration. Today should be the focus of attention for all Hungarians living in sporadics! Thank you very much for your attention. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the resolution of the villages of return until closure. Presentation by Mr Zsolt Becsó and Mr Mihály Balla Fideszes MEPs H/18302. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Mihály Balla, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2017-11-15-1	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, H/18302. in the proposal for a resolution, we propose to donate the. The title of the village returned home, which was launched by my fellow Member Zsolt Becsó, and I wish him a better place as well. In fact, the goal is to make a decision on a very interesting turnaround of a very interesting historical period by donating this. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Today Hungary has arrived at a historic turning point. Today, they are signing a peace treaty declaring the dismemberment of our thousand - year - old country. 'The speaker opened his speech in Parliament on June 4, 1920, on the day of the signing of the Trianon peace dictatorship. The decision completely disregards Somoskő and Somoskőújfalu, with hundreds of their partners, as well as the economic and economic interests of the settlements left at the home country. There can be no consolation in this decision that these two villages had to share the fate of hundreds of settlements. Today we would no longer know that a part of Salgótarján and the nearby Somoskőújfalu belonged to our northern neighbor under the Trianon peace treaty. However, Czechoslovakia could own these two settlements for only four years, because Hungary is XX. His history of the century had a very special increase in the area. The last territorial growth of Hungary took place 93 years ago, as the League of Nations decided to return to the counties of Somoskő and Somoskőújfalu Nógrád, and with the same decision it managed to save the cat stone for Hungary after four years of Czechoslovakian rule. The return of the two villages in Nógrád was due to the national commitment of the almost color Hungarian population and the fortunate development of the unique and even special case. It happened that thanks to the volcanic rock of the Karancs Mountains, coal and basalt mining were decisive in the area. It's the 19th now. From the first century onwards, many of the Budapest estates were purchased on the hill, including professor Dr. Géza Krepuska, professor. In 1905 the professor of ear-nose-burning at St. Rókus Hospital bought a two thousand-acre estate on the border between Somoskő and Somoskőújfalu, where he could live as a hobby of rock and mineral collection. [[9.10]] One morning in June 1920, he woke up with the inhabitants of the two villages and many of his countrymen, that his estate was already in the territory of another country. Understandably, the well - known professor, who complained about everyone's grief in his environment, was very desperate. That's when the story came about by chance. One of the English officers of the Hungarian-Czechoslovak border committee was in Budapest when he got seriously ill, and Hungary's best ear-nose-burning, Professor Krepuska, was recommended at that time. After Doctor had successfully operated on and treated the English officer from his illness, he persuaded the members of the Antente Committee to get on the scene and look at the two villages. The English officer accepted the invitation and visited Somoskőújfalu with an antant committee, where Géza Krepuska and Jenő Lipthay, director of the Rimamurányi Vasmű and Dr. Pál Auer legal expert accompanied them in the village as a fine example of voluntary Hungarian diplomacy. Thanks to what was seen, experienced and, of course, for previous treatment, they convinced the English Antente officer and his associates to return to Budapest to initiate negotiations to clarify the situation, which was the beginning of a lengthy procedure. The settlement of the issue of the tiny piece of land in Nógrád launched a number of expert investigations, negotiations and legal procedures that lasted for years, but, most importantly, the League of Nations decided on 23 April 1923 to return to Hungary Somoskő and Somoskőújfalu, together with a portion of the basalt and coal mines in the area. As part of the compromise decision, the station chief, the head of the border crossing station, was Hungarian, while the mining directors were Czechoslovak citizens. The amendment of the Trianon borders by the League Council entered into force on 15 February 1924. On that day, the designated authorities of the two States signed the transfer documents on the spot. The feedback of February 1924 can be recalled with the authenticity of the eyewitnesses with the help of the local Catholic priest, led by the "Historia domus". The official reconnection of Somoskőújfalu and Somoskő settlements to Hungary was on 15 February. The whole village had been banged up this morning, but the Czech delegate declared that the village was still a Czechoslovakian area, so he would not surrender the village until the Hungarian flag was removed. At nine o'clock the county's Archbishop, Sándor Stranyavszky, and with him the lords of the county, the owners of the neighbouring villages, and many from Salgótarján under the leadership of the mayor. The village received them under the triumphal gate, Dr. Géza Krepuska, István Csuha, and I. "The Catholic priest says. After István Csuha's greetings, Mr. Archbishop gave a great speech, bringing to their hearts the patriotism of the inhabitants. Then we went to church to thank God for leading us back to Hungary. After the solemn Te Deum, it was a Mass. At noon, Dr. Géza Krepuska gave a banquet on which the Attorney General's motion paid 100,000 kroner to repair the organ of the church after each toast. It's a million kroner. Bikkret-puszta, Mizsere-puszta, Kismalompuszta has not been attached back to Hungary. From the state folk school, the teachers went with the Czechs, took all the equipment to the Ears. Teacher Anna Kardos returned, and Mihály Gulyás and his wife arrived from the Diósgyőr Iron Factory. Adolf Majer was appointed station chief. The details are up to now. Hungary thus grew in 1924 with the right to use some basalt mines, 15 square kilometres and 2,500 people, of whom 97 percent were native speakers. The settlements of Somoskő and Somoskőújfalu, although it was returned to Hungary, remained in the possession of the Castle of Somoskő in Czechoslovakia. Thus came the absurd situation over the long decades, that if anyone wanted to go up from Somosk to a castle just a hundred metres from the village's far house, he could only get to the castle by a 20-mile detour through the nearest border crossing. History has said that the Nógrád border review has been forgotten for a long time. Somoskő and Somoskőújfalu got to Salgótarján in 1977, but finally, on the 75th anniversary of the return in 1999, the Slovak and Hungarian parties opened the border crossing at the Somoskő Castle in the cold in February, while the Somoskő Váralja Association was the first to remember the forgotten event. Thus, after nearly seven decades, even though they had passports in their hands, they could visit the high ground without a 20-kilometer detour by the inhabitants of the nearby streets and the inhabitants of the area. Somoskőújfalu became independent again in 2006 and has been celebrating the 15th of February, the day of his return for more than a decade. In Somoskőújfalu, the memorial of the homecoming was erected in memory of 15 February 1924, while Géza Krepuska is named in the same primary school. And Somoskőn salutes the professor with a statue. The Somosi Center for Environmental Education has launched the development of a museum of homecoming, to the great pleasure of all of us. Dear Parliament, As with the battle and referendum, Sopron held the Balassagyarmat, which was reclaimed by force, Kerca, Szomoróc, and among them, Somoskő and Somoskőújfalu share a strange fate and a strange fate, but each settlement was able to set an example of one thing: patriotism and unity. We therefore owe thanks to Professor Krepuska and his family, and to all those who, at the time of the ban, explained in a narrow circle of family or friends, saved the true festival of the two villages. We owe thanks to those who have passed through the celebration of the memory of returning home. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of all this, I ask you to support the parliamentary resolution. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-15-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm going to ask the representatives of the government if anyone wants to speak now. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State Csepreghy will take the floor. Here you go.
u2017-11-15-3	Mr President, Dear Parliament, We are approaching an anniversary that is rightly called the greatest ordeal of our nation. Please allow me to quote the words of Prime Minister Pál Teleki in November 1920, when the Trianon peace treaty was signed on 4 June, before the Hungarian National Assembly. He said: "I don't think we should stand here hopelessly. This nation has vitality, this nation wants to live. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. From the perspective of nearly a century, it is safe to say that the Hungarian nation has justified these expectations. The Hungarian communities remained on the border from here and beyond. They kept their communities, their language and their culture, which is perhaps the most important of all, the sure consciousness of belonging to the Hungarian nation. [[9.20]] In 2010, the Hungarian Parliament passed a law of historical importance on the testimony to national cohesion, which states that all members and communities of Hungarians under the authority of several states are part of the united Hungarian nation, whose union over state boundaries is a reality. In the same year, the Parliament adopted the amendment of the Hungarian citizenship law, which created the possibility for Hungarians from abroad to become part of the Hungarian nation again in public law. There is no better answer to the challenges of our nation than to the fact that we have now given or returned Hungarian citizenship to 1 million Hungarians abroad. For more than seven years, we have been constantly working to help the survival of Hungarian communities abroad with our own tools. Between 2010 and 2014, we managed to lay the foundations for national policy, on which we have managed to transform support for foreign Hungarians into a system in the last four years. In addition to education, we have also launched programmes in the field of economic development that contribute to the long-term survival and success of foreign Hungarians in their homeland. As the members of the Hungarian Permanent Conference representing all Hungarians said in their closing statement last week, we must continue to think about this result together in the future, to increase it and to protect it. Dear Parliament, In addition to declaring the cross-border union of the Hungarian nation, our law on witness to national solidarity states: Parliament pays tribute to all the people, their communities and their leaders, and to their memory, who, on 4 June 1920, after the unfair and unfair tearing of the Hungarian nation by external powers, made it possible by their sacrifice and performance that, following this tragedy, the Hungarians were able to regenerate in both spiritual and economic terms and to survive the subsequent historical tragedies. It is important to see that the individual and community performance and commitments of the members of the Hungarian nation separated by borders are those which do not allow this unity to be broken down. Such watchmen were Dr. Géza Krepuska, Jenő Lipthay B. and Dr. Paul Auer, who recognized their responsibility to shape the future of their community. That is why we consider the symbolic step that the Parliament intends to donate to the settlements of Somoskő and Somoskőújfalu in 1924 the title of "Homecoming Village" in memory of their perseverance, their tireless struggle. We are confident that remembering this great act will at the same time move us to remember those who owe it to our Hungarian country, our Hungarian nation. And let us remember that in our own place, too, we should be able to do our best to maintain it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-15-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Petneházy, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Please.
u2017-11-15-5	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Forgive me for wasting your time trying to get on the speaker's stand. By no means does the highlighted place tell my person, but the emblematic case on a emblematic day. 4 June 1920, as we have already heard, is the black day of Hungarian history. But we do not need to be afraid to repeat it again and again, not for ourselves, but also for the growing generations, that on this day the victorious powers of the First World War abolished the thousand-year-old Hungarian statehood illegally and disproportionately. Historical Hungary has lost two thirds of its territory and millions of its inhabitants. It is unprecedented in the history of a nation when a large part of its members are forced to rule a foreign state. During the past 97 years, difficult, hard and confusing times have been presented to our country. We had to lay the foundation of a new national policy. The economy had to be restored and Hungary's recognition had to be reclaimed on the international stage. These goals have been achieved by governments that have been regressed until the end of World War II. But then the German occupation, then the communist regime and the period until 1989 lost many results. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2010, a parliamentary assembly was formed by the will of the electorate, representing not only the country, but the whole nation. I believe, and I hope my fellow Members agree, that because of our Christian faith, we still have the dogma that what God unites cannot be separated by man. It is indicated that even if the borders separate us from our nations, the nation will remain a nation. I consider it particularly important that the current government strengthens the cooperation relationship between the mother country and Hungarians stranded outside the border, and the sense of mutual solidarity. As we read under the statue of Dezső Szabó in the Esterházy Hall of the Parliament: every Hungarian is responsible for every Hungarian. After Trianon, it took 90 years for a national emotional legislation to commemorate this tragic event and lay the foundations for the consciousness of national cohesion. As Mr Secretary of State has already said, this law is a witness to national cohesion in 2010. Hungarian communities stranded across the border sought to exercise their right of self-determination as a collective right arising from their human dignity. But in vain, the great powers of the world did not listen to them. It is a success that in December 1921 the Sopronians fought out their desire to belong to the mother country. Their right to self-determination has therefore been hindered in the international context. In my opinion, the return of Somoskő and Somoskőújfalu is a similar success. The return of the two villages is an example of an effective territorial revision. As we have heard, Dr. Géza Krepuska and Jenő Lipthay B. merited the feedback of the two villages to the motherland. These two noble Hungarian men committed themselves to fighting and bravely taking the case to international forums during the period of political instability after difficult world burns, and the permanent international court upheld their claim. Somoskő and Somoskőújfalu are now part of Nógrád county. Today, there are very few examples of such patriotic struggles. And there are few examples of the international court giving room for a small country's request against the central powers. But on February 15, 1924 Somoskő and Somoskőújfalu became permanent and unchangeable parts of Hungary - again. Ladies and gentlemen, If we believe in the power of national cohesion, and we believe in it, and we also made a vow, then it is our duty to accept the resolution proposal, which seeks to commemorate the returned villages. Dear House, Modern international law requires that states settle their disputes between themselves, even for reasons related to territorial needs, peacefully. I don't think I'm fooling anyone by saying that it's not possible to enforce territorial demand in a peaceful way anymore. However, it is possible for the States concerned to resolve their problems between themselves for territorial or ethnic reasons by appropriate means, interstate agreements, conventions and declarations of intent. [[9.30]] I believe that cooperation between Hungary and Slovakia is an example for us within the cooperation of the Visegrád Four. It can be seen that both parties are able to help each other. We are talking about two states in the Central Europe region that have experienced many things. In the history of the century. Thus, international law protects the territorial sovereignty of states and declares it inviolable. And if there is no chance of revision, and there is no, then it is the duty of this House, as the supreme body of popular sovereignty, to commemorate the noble deeds and noble people who put something on the table for the survival of the state and national unity. Well, I think Lipthay B. Jenő, Dr. Géza Krepuska and his companions put something on the table. Before them, all Hungarian people must bow their heads with the greatest humility and respect. They did not allow the citizens of Somoskő and Somoskőújfalu to be subjected to alien oppression. Today, the inhabitants of the two settlements and their descendants can live, grow, learn, and start a family in their homeland; in the motherland they have always belonged to. Dear fellow Members, On our part, it is a worthy attitude to declare our will in the form of a resolution proposal that we do not forget, because we do not want to forget. It is our duty not to forget, for this is what our responsibility for the next generation demands. We do not want to forget the tragedy in this country, nor do we want to forget that millions of Hungarians still live outside our borders. This decision reminds us of this. As a Parliament serving the nation, I would like to ask my fellow Members to cooperate and agree on the priority issues of Hungary concerning the existence of the Hungarian nation, regardless of party standing. I therefore call on the honourable Parliament to support the adoption of this proposal. Thank you for your attention, your patience, thank you for listening. [[Dr. István Józsa, Dr. János Fónagy and Nándor Csepreghy applaud.]]
u2017-11-15-6	Thank you very much. Congressman Balázs Ander, the lead speaker of Jobbik is next. Here you go.
u2017-11-15-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik Group will support the proposal for a decision on the villages of return. I think there was no doubt in your mind. However, this whole case, the return of the two settlements, Somoskő and Somoskőújfalu, is a successful revision, which in 1924, with the help of the excellent people we have heard so much about here, could have been realized and transcended. That is what my fellow Members have said. This symbol is much stronger than the return of just two settlements, 15 square kilometers, and then 3 thousand souls. This would have been a lot, it would have been a result, but it goes beyond itself, and it highlights the historical reproach, the greatest and history, our everyday lives, the reproach that haunts our lives today, which was embodied in the unjust Trianon peace dictate on 4 June 1920. Just because the feedback of the two settlements goes beyond itself, we would have thought it more elegant if it had not come to this House as a sort of party resolution proposal, but as a result of a broader consensus. We would have liked it, or at least it would have been more elegant if the House could now negotiate it as a five-party resolution proposal, or if it hadn't worked, I would have done so as a proposal from the Committee on National Inclusion. I think we've done this a few times, about the Memorial Day of the Hungarian flag and coat of arms or even about Rákóczi Memorial Day. These things go beyond themselves, they are more powerful symbols than a party, in this case the Fidesz virtually expropriates this case. Nevertheless, once again, we will support it, because the goal itself is noble. However, the form in which it came before the House is controversial - one of them. The other, honourable Members, when I read the general explanation of the proposal for a decision, I was deeply shocked by the content of the last paragraph (5). I feel absolutely unnecessary with this kind of Stockholm-syndrome attitude that we are also dealing with, let's say, our northern neighbor. This is also where my fellow Member Petneházy expressed a kind of appreciation for the wonderful or, according to you, wonderful Hungarian-Slovak relations. Cooperation on migration, please, should not be confused with how Slovakia treats the Hungarian nationality in its territory. It would be a serious mistake to mix this up. I would also like to read how you feel about this:, nearly a century after the Trianon decision, Hungary and Slovakia are part of the Visegrád alliance, which is today the most successful alliance in Europe, and which cooperation between its members has never been as strong and united as it has been in recent times. What are we talking about? I don't want to bring here historical grievances, I wish we could talk about that. We could talk about the spirit of the living Beneš decrees, about how tens of thousands of Hungarians were taken to slave labor from the Highlands to the Sudeta areas in the mournful years following the Second World War. We could talk about, say, why there hasn't been at least one symbolic apology in connection with the grovephalus massacre. After Trianon, we could talk about how Hungary, which is still one third of the population in the highlands, melted and reduced to less than 10 percent in the state called Slovakia, due to assimilation and anti-Hungarian measures. We could talk about these, but here we should also talk about the present, what the situation is like in the Highlands, among Hungarians in the Highlands now in Slovakia. This is where the case of Malina Hedvig should be brought up, and here we should talk about the story of Aladárné Tamás, his sad, very sad story, when the Hungarian teacher, who was going to be 100 years old, was deprived of her Slovak citizenship just because she hired the Hungarian teacher. This could have happened in Slovakia, with which you believe our relations are so prosperous and fruitful in a way that has never been seen in history. We should talk about the flag law on how the Hungarian flag was banned from highland sports events. We should talk about, say, the unsolved case of rail bilingualism in the Highlands. We should talk about how it can still happen in 2017, in the middle of Europe, by censoring Hungarian-language posters in the Highlands, because certain extreme Slovak political forces do not like it. We should talk about how people in Deichmann can be dismissed just because they speak Hungarian, in their native language, because they speak to a customer who enters there. And you could name these stories. For this reason, I find it incomprehensible why - I might add - I repeat myself once again - to include in the general justification of such a noble decision proposal such, in many cases for many of us, a blood-cooking sentence, which was nothing but unnecessary. However, we also salute the idea of Hungarian nationalism and national cohesion, which is already in front of them, and which is about to be revised, as Dr. Géza Krepuska, Dr. Pál Auer or Jenő Lipthay, thanks to whom these two settlements, Somoskő and Somoskőújfalu, could return to the Hungarian country at the bottom of Karancs - or as Miksáth called it: the Palóc Olympos. [[9.40]] So, yes, we salute their great deeds, but we would also like to see those fears or aversions of extreme liberal bondage go away in relation to the fact that before heroes who have fought in a similar way to return territories to Hungary, to this day, we cannot honor them in a sufficiently or at least in an official manner. Who am I thinking of? I'm thinking about the heroes of the Raggedy Guard. Iván Héjjas, Pál Prónay, Mihály Francia Kiss, whose death sentence is still valid in Hungary, in a legal sense. Shame, shame! We cannot remember either the first or the second decision in Vienna in a proper way, even though there was a revision with the agreement of the Western powers, and a much larger area and a much larger number of Hungarians returned to the motherland in 1938 and 1940. Well, these are the things that should be left behind, we should not be afraid to salute and bow down to these historical personalities and historical deeds or even to decisions. Nevertheless, what happened in 1920 was truly outrageous. It was more than outrageous, it was very right, Mr. Secretary of State, to add to the small addition that the Hungarians, not to one of Hungary's greatest tragedies, gave the Trianon shame, but to the greatest historical sin, misdemeanor, tragedy. That's right, we can agree with that. It was Trianon that destroyed Central Europe and Hungary in it. It was amazing at one of our factions, just when we were in Salgótarján, to go up to Somoskő Castle and to think how terrible it was to have this castle taken away from Hungary. The castle where Anna Losonci lived, by the way, is the Anna of Losonci, to whom the 16th century. Bálint Balassi wrote the Juliet poems at the end of the century. And if you are faced with these things, then everyone who has just a drop of Hungarian feeling must have their hands stuck in a fist. Thank you very much for the decades or, then, a century ago, with which you have recovered these two settlements for Hungary, you have saved the people who live there from being trapped in minority existence. Therefore, Jobbik will support this proposal for a decision. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-15-8	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We have a number of regular speakers ahead of us. Of course, any such and similar proposal or subject matter allows the widest historical context to be mentioned in Section XVI. from the 20th century to the 20th century. For a hundred years. But I have a house rule obligation to draw your attention to the fact that the general debate on the proposal for a decision on the villages of return is now taking place until the closure. In this spirit, I give the floor to Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács, the representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2017-11-15-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I sincerely hoped that today we would be in an elevated mood for this proposal for a resolution, and I think that my fellow Members spoke in this tone. I am convinced that Ferenc Deák's eternal saying about power and power and that the power and power he takes, how and how he can be restored is even more true today than it was then. Power and power, not power, not violence, but rather law, integrity and mutual reconciliation can provide a solution that can provide a home and security for all peoples here in Central Europe in the long term. This is what I really see as an example of in this extremely difficult period, in the 1920s, of this event, which we intend to record here today. I am convinced that solutions in this Central European region that develop on the basis of violence or hatred against one another will never bring about lasting reconciliation. And this kind of reconciliation, I firmly believe, is not only necessary outside our borders, but also within our borders. The kind of nation consciousness to which I count myself, and perhaps with excessive self-confidence, I still think that because I spent most of my life, including 1956, it was not about violence against neighbouring peoples, but it was about finding harmony with these peoples that could provide life for Hungarians living there not for 10 years, not for 20 years, but for a thousand years. Why do you have to do this? Because, ladies and gentlemen, what has been said here is that we have a full responsibility for each other. That is why I do not think that what has appeared here in this explanatory statement is in vain. I do not think it is in vain that, yes, Hungary must strive to be stronger now that we can say that we are stronger than ever, now that we have a greater weight and word in Europe and the world than ever before, we are using this power and weight, not to gain any undue or historically very legitimate benefits, but to use it for reconciliation. Only the strong can give peace, the weak demand only. The weak only want to act with violence, and they usually fail. But I think that the power, the power that appears in the unity of a nation, in the united consciousness of a nation, is invincible. This will last in the long term, and that is why I believe that today has a real meaning, beyond the fact that, yes, we are worthy to inherit those who have done so that these two settlements belong to Hungary. They did a lot for him, they did a great job, they were creative people, but let us also remember that there must be a continuation. This kind of peaceful and tolerant policy can make Hungary feel as Hungarians living outside our borders as well as Hungarians living within our borders. We belong to a nation, even when borders separate us. And this one nation, I believe, is rooted in a common sense of history, a common will, and - don't take it badly now, fellow Members - in our common Europe consciousness. This kind of, specific, we, in Europe, is not about being outside Europe, but about being within Europe. And if we think within a united Europe, think within a Europe of nations, then many things can be seen differently, in a completely different way and in a different light. I therefore hope that we will all be convinced that today must be about the need to continue with national unification policy, the nation-union policy to which we must also win the consent and support of neighbouring peoples. Only in this way can a peaceful and lasting Central Europe. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-15-10	Thank you very much for your honourable words. Congresswoman Anita Heringes, MSZP!
u2017-11-15-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Undeserved Episode, Hungary XX. We can now talk about a very special increase in the region of his century history. Today we would no longer know that the former part of Salgótarján and the nearby Somoskőújfalu belonged to our northern neighbor under the Trianon peace treaty. But only for four years did Czechoslovakia know the part then called Somosova. Hungary was still under the shock of the decision signed on 4 June 1920, when three and a half years later a very small beauty patch was placed on Hungary's body. Hungary's last territorial growth, still in force, took place 90 years ago. This is when the League of Nations and the Hague Court ruled that two Hungarian villages, Somoskő and Somoskőújfalu, returned to the county of Nógrád, to which a successful operation led in a fairy tale, and that Géza Krepuska, the ear-nose-burning local patriot of St. Rókus Hospital, felt his duty from his heart to act on this matter. [[9.50]] This is due to the fact that he bought land in Somoskőújfalu in 1905 and wanted to provide a basis for his hobbies. That's why he fell in love with this part and started working to get this part back on. In addition to him, Lipthay B. Jenő, a man who can support the local population, owes us the return of the two villages and the intervention of Dr. Pál Auer, a legal expert. On 20 June 1922, the Hague Court granted a request for feedback from the two municipalities. The League Council sentenced the two villages to Hungary. In their argument the interesting moment is included, they argued that basalt was the only suitable basalt in Hungary that could stone the streets of Budapest. Thank you to these people, and I think it is important for all parties to feel that this is a matter beyond the parties, and that this proposal for a resolution must be supported from the bottom of their hearts. Thank you very much for letting this lie on the table, for deciding on it, and I think that all parties, all Members, will support this proposal for a resolution with their vote in favour. Thank you.
u2017-11-15-12	Thank you very much. Congressman István Józsa, MSZP!
u2017-11-15-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join those who welcome this proposal for a resolution, because it is indeed necessary for the Hungarian Parliament to commemorate such an exceptional occasion. I particularly welcome the fact that the witness of history, Dr. Béla Turi-Kovács, who is sitting among us, has given such a comprehensive, large-scale speech on this resolution to commemorate the celebration, because I believe that, in addition to this festive gesture, which is guaranteed by the authors, such thinking will bring us forward, which the Member could put before us with the weight of his life experience. The preservation of Hungarians beyond the border today cannot be imagined differently than in the framework of the European Union, as EU citizens, and through this, by achieving cultural rights and equal rights for them. So you can't do that with opposition or sword chirping, and he's absolutely right about that. At the same time, I would like to draw a certain historical parallel, although very faintly, with the Hungarian negotiating behaviour in Trianon and the lack of this negotiating behaviour and the historical error of the political elite at that time, that they wanted to reject the Trianon Border Revision in the first place, so they did not attempt to negotiate these minor corrections, which, for example, have been achieved here in connection with Somoskőújfalu. So the documents of the latest research point to the sad fact that the Hungarian foreign policy is the result of its extremely flawed attitude, that the borders adopted in Trianon are the worst version of the worst drawn up by officials. Two British and two French officials, not even a diplomat, prepared this draft border by saying that it will not like the Hungarians, and that they will start negotiations, which appeared exceptionally in this Somoskőújfalu plan, and as a series of such negotiations they will reach some intermediate border revision. It is extremely regrettable that diplomacy at that time did not even attempt to do so in the spirit of a failed political stance. The parallel is that, in my opinion, the European policy of the Hungarian leadership is quite wrong. So this campaign, which the Hungarian government has been running against Europe in recent years, does not improve Hungary's positions, does not help Hungary to take full advantage of the benefits of the EU, but we are going to create a kind of growing repulsion and resistance from the peoples of Europe. And I fear that in the short term too - not as Congressman Turi-Kovács said, that we will settle our affairs for a thousand years - this Hungarian government policy against Europe or representing the attack on the mood of Europe will return to those advantages and preferences, and I will not say that in its withdrawal, but in its possible reduction, which Hungary is now undoubtedly receiving in the spirit of uniformity. So, in my view, such a festive occasion should remind us of what history's experience is and how to filter the conclusions of historical events into our political practice today. In this I think it would be more appropriate to put Europe's real values ahead of us, and to strengthen them, in cooperation with them, rather than through campaigns against Europe's moods, in the formulation of the opportunities offered by the European Union. One of these options is the issue of the cross-border issue of Hungarians, which, according to many of us, can be represented most effectively in the context of the European Union's legal framework and the opportunities it offers. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-11-15-14	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Balla, as rapporteur, if he wishes to reflect on what has been said. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2017-11-15-15	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Allow me, on behalf of Zsolt Becsó and myself, to thank you for your support. Maybe a short reaction to criticism. I think that, since my fellow Member and I are representatives of the county of Nógrád, we will be living on a daily basis with Ipoly, the Karancs region, the Karancs valley, at all the parts of Somos, and we would also be able to tell you a lot about the reflections in historical mirrors about what is important for the people living there. I think, especially if someone goes up to the Karancs Chapel on Mount Karancs, the Palóc Olympus, I think they can experience the effect, the experience that has caused us representatives of Nógrád County to make this presentation. I am pleased that a historical comparison of this has been made by this House, and thank you very much for the support that we will be able to receive not primarily for ourselves, but for the people living on Somosk, Somoskőújfalu, and for the historical memory of the return of these villages. I think that for a few thousand people, 2000-2500 who are there in history, in the history of the family, in the thinking of the local patriot, this event has a very important role to play, it may be a great compliment to them, too, or it may feel very good to see that they are here in Parliament, regardless of party standing, fundamentally supportive of the resolution proposal. I ask you to support it, and you will also signify it in your votes, and thank you once again very much for your supportive attitude, your supporting speeches. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties and the MSZP.]]
u2017-11-15-16	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend certain laws relating to transport until closure. Government referral T/18308. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. [[10.00]] First, I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, Secretary of State, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2017-11-15-17	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The provisions of the bill are designed to amend other sectoral laws on transport infrastructure investments. On the one hand, the amendments have become necessary to achieve transport infrastructure investment more effectively, to modernise the existing regulatory environment and to clarify the provisions relating to transport authority matters; on the other hand, there are reasons for harmonisation in order to bring them into line with other sectoral and other legislation. For transport infrastructure investments carried out, an important objective is to complete and create the conditions for the transfer of assets resulting from public investment activities. The government's intention since 2010 and the legal and organisational framework in force since 2014 have enabled the National Infrastructure Developer Zrt. From 2013, he was able to transfer some HUF 1846 billion worth of assets to the statutory trustees. However, the launch of asset transfers is also necessary in other areas, such as municipal real estate projects and public utility development, and the existing regulatory environment needs to be modernised. It will be compulsory to account for developments on municipal property, to carry out the settlement free of charge, thus providing an effective solution for the transfer of assets between the builder of national roads and the local government. Public utilities are traceable installations such as the transport infrastructure construction, which are normally connected to a public service, and therefore can also be located in public areas, mainly in the road area. This type of concentration is economic and practical in the short term, helping to ensure the rapid and cost-effective construction of public works, but hindering and increasing transport improvements on road property in the long term. In many cases, the replacement of public works can only be solved in a narrow time window, and the loss of the replacement can result in months of time loss. In order to ensure the timely and cost-effective implementation of bicycle road investments, it is appropriate to establish specific rules in the area of such utility replacements and improvements. In the case of all necessary permits relating to replacements of public works, the possibility should be provided for them to become effective without presenting the provisions above the areas. The licence in this form does not, of course, give rise to the right to acquire foreign immovable property or to decide on any other claim, but the authority may examine the content of the permit before that date, without the necessary land being available. Public utility owners can only be expected to cooperate if the investment does not result in damage to the entity. On the other hand, the State has a legitimate need to ensure that the entities concerned do not benefit from the investment. The new amendments resolve the conflict between these two aspects, these two interests. The bill also clarifies in relation to transport infrastructure investments that the raw materials extracted during the investments are not excluded from the property of the Hungarian State, but the unused part can be used in the implementation of other public projects. The bill introduces the concept of intermodal hub in the context of priority transport infrastructure investments. As a result, investments in the transfer comfort of citizens as a government priority can be made more effectively in the future. As far as the aviation sector is concerned, the aim of the bill is, in line with the government's efforts to reduce red tape, to merge the rates established under the annual supervision of aero-medical centres authorised to issue medical certificates and, at the same time, to reduce them. Medical certificates will be established on the basis of a uniform fee, independent of the class. The amendment to the Passenger Transport Services Act includes, inter alia, clarification and addition of the concept system of the Passenger Transport Act with provisions ensuring the national interoperability of the electronic ticket system, the passenger information system and the traffic management systems. These rules provide the legal framework for the operation of a single national electronic ticket system. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill also includes the possibility for transport operators to introduce a Community car rental system, similar to the Community bicycle system, on the basis of the conditions laid down in the Government Decree. The amendment of the Road Transport Register Act contains technical clarifications, in particular in order to reduce bureaucratic burdens. As a result, customers abroad will be able to obtain the necessary certificates for the exchange of driving licences with the assistance of foreign representations. Ladies and gentlemen, On this basis, I ask you, the Honourable Parliament, that the T/18308. Following the debate on this issue, please support bill No 1. Thank you for your patience. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-15-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The main speakers will now take place, in which the lead speaker of Fidesz, Mr Jenő Manninger, will be the first to take the floor. Here you go.
u2017-11-15-19	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As has been said in the ministerial exposé, Mr Secretary of State has said that the numerous transport laws before us contain a number of amendments to reduce red tape and simplify procedures, making it possible to invest faster and more efficiently. The proposal amends the rules on the settlement of developments on municipal property; the proposal makes it clear that the settlement will have to be carried out free of charge in the future, while at the same time creating the possibility of transferring the ownership of state-owned property carrying local roads by the owner-right practitioner after being put into service, by obliging the municipalities concerned to take over the property. The bill also sets out the applicable value and free of charge for all transfers that become necessary for the purposes of road conversion and entry into service, which is important because the current legislation provided this only for national and local roads. The amendment has the advantage that there will be no need for a transfer step, but that roads can also be transferred in view of the entry into service, thus allowing the transfer of a significant amount of local roads created during already closed investments. In addition, all reclassification cases and transfers due to entry into service may be free of charge and the book value will have to be taken into account. Dear House, The bill also provides a solution to a problem in practical life. In many cases, the foreign authorities have asked the customers for a certificate of the Hungarian driving licence. [[10.10]] Until now, citizens have applied to foreign representations for assistance in such cases, but the legislation in force has not allowed them to carry out the reporting. For example, in the event that the document was lost or stolen, the data subject was unable to provide the data, the compatibility of which could be confirmed. The bureaucratic burden for customers will be reduced by the amendment that a citizen abroad will be able to obtain the certificate necessary to exchange a driving licence from the licence register with the assistance of the foreign representation. In the amendment of the Act on Accelerating and Simplification of Investment of Priority Economic Priority, it is proposed to lay down the proposed rules that are to be introduced, which have a uniform impact on investment in transport infrastructure development, so that the need to plan on the basis of the data provided by the single electronic public utility register is recorded, in order to determine the technically necessary extent of replacements and improvements in utilities, to carry out conciliation between the builder and the public utility, to resolve disputes in the event of dispute, and to ensure the possibility of the provision of land rights in the absence of the right to dispose of the property. With the introduction of this regulation, a significant part of the problems arising in connection with utility replacements and improvements can already be addressed in the preparation phase, thus avoiding delays in implementation for these reasons. Cycling infrastructure is constantly developing in our country. An important objective is the timely and cost-effective implementation of these developments. To this end, special rules are laid down for replacements and upgrades of public utilities for cycling roads, walking and cycling roads, footpaths, sidewalks and equipment for bicycle traffic facilities, which will be adopted only through the introduction of uniform rules for areas used by pedestrian or bicycle transport. The proposal also includes a proposal for a merger and reduction of the rates laid down under the annual supervision of aero-medical centres, which reduces additional bureaucratic burdens. Ladies and gentlemen, In public passenger transport services, revenue collection systems, ticket and rent systems and related passenger information and traffic management systems are the most important means of ordering Community transport services and improving access to services and competitiveness. The creation of these key systems is already possible by information technology, but based on domestic practice, these developments have so far been implemented only in an island-like way by a service provider. On the basis of transport policy expectations and on the basis of public finances and policy principles on cost-effectiveness and adequate utilisation of improvements, they should and should form a nationally interoperable and uniform system. In these uniform systems, a Community transport data file will be created to ensure that public service providers implement government transport policy principles related to rail priority and, if necessary, influence passenger choice between modes of transport, and encourage environmentally friendly modes of transport. In addition, it increases the revenues of public service companies and makes a closed, verifiable system for the use and financing of passenger travel preferences for social policy purposes. In order to achieve these objectives effectively and successfully, and to ensure the consistency and interoperability of databases and electronic data communication technologies, the bill provides the legislative framework for the operation of a central system, which also provides support for the tasks of the customers of public passenger transport services. The system shall be subject to personal registration of the right to benefit in order to ensure that the use of travel benefits can be justified in a transparent manner. The concept of passenger media and travel documents is introduced and the definition of the transport card is added. Dear House, The Fidesz fraction supports the proposal to amend certain transport-related laws, because it includes a number of simplifications that accelerate the implementation of infrastructure investments and reduce bureaucratic burdens. In addition, the proposal, with the necessary changes to the existing electronic public service systems and to the introduction of the electronic ticket system, will bring about a forward-looking development that will make transforming transport faster, more convenient and less environmentally friendly by means of IT developments. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-15-20	Mr. István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2017-11-15-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us, entitled "modification of certain laws relating to transport," contains a real salad law, a total of 19 amendments to the law, including amendments for harmonisation purposes. Accordingly, it is difficult to establish a single position on it, because we feel the good intention that the portfolio is trying to resolve issues and legal issues related to long-standing infrastructure developments, it is also about taking the necessary steps in the field of legal harmonisation, and the changes to the electronic ticket system are also on the subject where Hungary is lagging behind or does not take advantage of the opportunities offered by the digital society. Turning to the main nodes, I would like to express our opinion, and to do so, it is necessary for me to explain the subject itself somewhat. The first major issue is infrastructure construction, utility replacements and related laws. The main topic is that in the case of investments made, the National Infrastructure Developer Zrt. acting on behalf of the State. The disposal of assets created in the course of its investment activity should be possible as far as possible and the conditions under which such assets are to be transferred by law. At the same time, a number of significant investment lots have already been implemented which are problematic or not possible in the current legislative context, in particular the investment elements to be transferred to municipalities and the investment elements implemented during the replacement of public utilities. In this area, Minister of State said a very large number that more than HUF 1800 billion of investment value was transferred to National Infrastructure Developer Zrt. I would like to add that, therefore, only in terms of substance, because there is a problem in the details. So the question of the investment stages in the replacement of public utilities will now be settled. In the absence of these transfers, NIF Zrt. is a significant investment element. They could not be transferred from their books to the books of targeted end users, so in this respect, the legislation proposed is in any event a substitute. It has also become necessary to amend the provisions of the Road Transport Act on road conversions in order to allow the properties carrying municipal roads to become the property of the municipalities as soon as possible. [[10.20]] These utilities are, like the works of transport infrastructure, traceable installations which are normally connected to a public service. As a result, their placement would be linked to the transport infrastructure in a public area and in possible ways, so it is very important to clarify ownership conditions for the purpose of multiple exploitation, in Hungarian, that until this is settled, the related infrastructure investments cannot be carried out by the municipalities in these areas linked to the route. This type of concentration is economic and practical in the short term, helping to build public works quickly and cost-effectively, but hindering and increasing the development of road real estate for transport purposes, including the implementation of cycling facilities in parallel with the road. Therefore, this legal clarification is absolutely necessary, because without it there will be any distortion or unused potential in relation to road construction. So the first subject, I can say, is welcome, because it is a substitute, so so far it is trying to solve unresolved issues. The second major issue is also eligible, because these obligations relating to harmonisation are set out in the Passenger Transport Act. The amendment also concerns the amendment of the Act on Passenger Transport Services of 2012 with the aim of opening the market for domestic rail passenger services 2016/2338. Fix the implementing provisions necessary for the application of the EU Regulation. Given that the opening up of the market for domestic passenger services has an impact on the repeal of the European Regulations on rail and road passenger services and the related Regulations, which have expired, and therefore cannot be avoided, this is a timely legislative harmonisation step. In addition, the present draft contains a number of other provisions that justified or necessary in the light of the experience gained since the adoption of the Passenger Transport Act in 2012. So this second major issue concerns passenger transport services. It cannot be said that it will solve this problem completely, because there is a bit of a rush to do so, that harmonisation of the law must be done on time, or at least in the necessary direction. In the third major issue, the amendments to the aviation law amend the rules of operation and of the aviation fine, essentially technical amendments. The fourth major issue - which I have mentioned above - is that it is forward-looking and that it is a substitute - is the interoperability of the electronic ticket system, and the national integration of it, which is the creation of a legal background. The bill also contains the basic provisions necessary for the introduction and application of the electronic ticket system. In public passenger transport services, revenue collection systems, ticket and rent systems and related passenger information and traffic management systems are key tools for ordering Community transport services and improving access to and competitiveness in services. With the development of information technology, such systems have appeared widely and developments have been made with domestic Community transport service providers, but the developments currently typically represent solutions tailored to one transport service provider, company-specific and company-wide. On the basis of transport policy expectations related to the interconnection of transport networks and services, and on the basis of the principles of public finances and policies on cost-effectiveness and adequate utilisation of improvements, these systems should form a uniform system that can be interoperable at national level in the future. The current level of information technology already provides an appropriate opportunity to do so, but it is a technical, technological and operational condition for achieving this goal that these systems are integrated, interconnected and the necessary central functions are developed. A further prerequisite for operating at network level is the development of the necessary technological and asset conditions for services and service providers where the IT and information technology equipment park necessary for the operation of the electronic ticketing system, the passenger information and traffic management system is still lacking. So this bill is, in our view, a very right direction - I may use a wrong or a bad word - a means of enforcing it, in addition to the systems that have been implemented so far, to be as complete as possible and to communicate with each other at the appropriate level, essentially for the benefit of consumers, transport and community transport participants. I would also like to add that, according to the proposal, the customer may also require provisions on the provision by or compulsory use of information technology tools, equipment systems to ensure the national interoperability and consistency of the systems already described above in the public service contracts. That's what I'm saying to a positive coercion. As a result of the amendment, the operator will also be entitled to know and use the data relating to the determination of the legality of the use of travel preferences, in accordance with the rules of data processing, of course. In addition, the concept of passenger media and travel documents may be introduced after the regulation and questions about the legal background of the definition and use of the transport card may be added. The next major part is that the bill also amends the Annex to the Motorway Act, so that the section on the construction of a new road between M44 Kecskemét and its region, Békéscsaba, currently classified as a long-term road type, as well as the section on the construction of a new road between M49, currently between the M3 and the border, and the new section on the construction of the M60 Pécs-Barcs border, as well as the section on the extension of the capacity of the M76, physically with the construction of the new road M7 Balatonszentgyörgy-Zalaegerszeg. What arises as a question, or we do not understand exactly what the content will be, is that at the same time the lines for road development projects will be repealed, the M1 Esztergom road, the Hatvan-Salgótarja, it is probably already in the process of realization, Bátonyterenye-Ozd, M7 Balatonlelle-Kaposvár's new road, and the M1 Pope's new road. [[10.30]] So the real question of this reclassification concerns what is considered to be accomplished, what is still in the plans, what is being transferred here for administrative reasons. At the same time, I would like to say in the last seconds that the adoption of the EKAER could not be supported by the MSZP because of various problems, so it is not certain that we can fully support the amendments to the sectoral law in this regard, with the professional chapters of the present proposal being seen as basically a necessary step on my part, and I think that, of course, it could be done in a better capacity, but it is very right that it is before the House. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-15-22	Thank you very much. Congressman József Attila Móring, notary of the National Assembly, is next with the lead speaker of the KDNP. Here you go.
u2017-11-15-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The bill before us serves primarily legal harmonisation purposes and amends several pieces of legislation. I would like to mention some of these without the need for completeness. The amendment to the Road Transport Act puts forward proposals for accounting for the development of municipal property. It clarifies that the settlement should be carried out free of charge in the future. It creates the possibility of transferring state-owned properties carrying local roads by the owner-right practitioner after entry into service, while also obliges the local authorities concerned to receive the properties indicated, thereby providing an effective solution to address this problem. With the exception of general sales tax, the exemption from taxes and duties should also be corrected in relation to the transfer. The amendment to the Act also justifies the fact that the current legislation does not contain any requirements for the conclusion of an agreement between construction and public utility operators, neither law nor lower legislation settles the details of the implementation of the public utility replacement or development, which is currently settled by agreement between the parties, but in many cases the damage is caused by delays in the conclusion of the agreement. Since the law does not currently provide for a contractual obligation, the builder does not have the possibility to force the conclusion of the agreement. In addition, the amendment provides for the possibility to display not only free, but also tax- and tax-free transfers of utility replacements or upgrades, as well as the necessary clarification in the context of the general sales tax. However, the proposed free-of-charge moment should be subject to a condition, which is not sufficiently clear in the current legislation. In view of this, the condition of free-of-charge is fixed. As a general rule, the public utility owner will have an obligation to reimburse costs relating to the replacement or improvement of public works beyond what is strictly necessary. In the case of State-owned water utilities, it is the obligation of the trustee to reimburse the cost of the replacement or improvement of public works beyond what is technically strictly necessary. The accounting rules will also be clarified. The clearing obligation is supplemented by the obligation to conclude the relevant agreement and, in principle, is transferred between the public utility owner and the builder instead of the public utility provider. This rule is amended in the case of State-owned water utilities so that the clearing and settlement obligation is borne by the builder and the trustee. The legal obligation of the builder and the utility owner or trustee to agree with each other can greatly contribute to the practical implementation of the accounts. The new legislation provides for the possibility of an appeal in respect of the fitness of road drivers, which was possible before 1 January 2017. By re-establishing the possibility of appeal, citizens may now request a review of any negative decision in the event of non-compliance. The Mining Act is also being amended. CXXVIII of 2003 on the public interest and development of the motorway network of the Republic of Hungary. According to the provisions of the Law, the purpose of the production of the filling material necessary for the construction of the land of the motorways covered by the law may be established. The use of the extracted mineral raw material by the builder for purposes not linked to the activity covered by the permit may be carried out under the terms and conditions laid down in the Act on National Property and in the Act on State Property under an agreement concluded with Magyar Nemzeti Vagyonkezelő Zrt. The amendment clarifies that the mineral raw material that remains in the possession of the Hungarian State will not be extracted from the property of the Hungarian State by the builder acting on behalf of and for the benefit of the Hungarian State. In the case of aquatic installations, the authority shall only have a special request relating to the right of drainage. The application shall be accompanied by legal arrangements already concluded. In this case, the period of contract commitment and the period of contract significantly prolongs the authorisation procedure. With the adoption of the amendment proposal, the authorisation may be obtained in a shorter period. With regard to air transport, it was necessary to consolidate and simultaneously reduce the rates laid down under the annual supervision of aero-medical centres. In line with the government's efforts to cut red tape, a uniform fee, independent of the medical certificate class, was justified, which was established during the review of certain oversight fees of the aviation authority. It is also necessary to transfer the aviation authority to qualified entities for the performance of certain certification tasks. European Union legal sources allow the European Aviation Safety Agency or the national aviation authorities of the Member States to delegate certain certification tasks to a qualified organisation, but it is necessary to allow the aviation authority to exercise the provisions of the European Union legal source at the statutory level. 9/2004 on fees for military aviation official procedures. It is also necessary to amend the delegated provisions of the HM Regulation. Under the current legislation, in the regulation on military aviation procedural charges, previously issued by the Minister of Defence, the Minister for National Development is currently addressed to the legislative mandate. on measures for the review of central offices and ministerial background institutions in the form of budgetary bodies 1312/2016. However, Government Resolution No.3 integrates military aviation authority authority powers and responsibilities with the Ministry of Defence with effect from 1 January 2017, so it became necessary for the defence portfolio to be once again addressed to the legislative mandate in the above regulatory area. The proposal also contains technical clarifications. The amendment of the Road Transport Register Act has become necessary in order to allow national road operators to request the following data from the road transport register necessary to carry out their tasks of checking vehicles with a maximum authorised mass, axle load and dimensions. There has been no specific provision in the Road Transport Register to date that the register contains the date on which the ownership and the rights of the operator start and end, despite the fact that, in practice, the register contains these data. The amendment also fills these gaps. In addition, in many cases, foreign authorities request a certificate of Hungarian driving licence data from customers. Nationals abroad shall, mutatis mutandis, seek assistance from foreign representations in such cases, but it is not possible for them to provide data and, for example, in the absence of a document, if it has been stolen or lost, the data subject is unable to provide the data, the consistency of which could be confirmed. It would reduce the bureaucratic burden on customers if they could obtain the certificate necessary to exchange their driving licence from the licence register, with the assistance of the foreign representation. [[10.40]] In accordance with the provisions of the General Administrative Rules Act, provisions authorising the Law on Water Transport are added. Given the need to raise the provisions of the current legislation at ministerial level to the level of a government regulation, the amendment authorises regulation at the level of the government regulation. Dear Parliament, The amendment to the Railway Transport Act ensures that the range of assets to be implemented by the developer, i.e. in addition to the means necessary for the operation of railway infrastructure, parking and facilities related to railway lines are free of charge by NIF Zrt. the management of assets. The current legislation does not contain any specifications for the conclusion of an agreement between the parties on the execution of the public utility replacement or development, nor does any law or other legislation provide for details of the implementation of the public utility replacement or development. At the same time, these parties are currently settling this by concluding an agreement. In many cases, however, damage is caused by delays in the conclusion of the agreement, and since the law does not currently provide for a contractual obligation, the builder does not have the possibility to force the conclusion of the agreement. The amendment allows the builder, if the operator of the public utility concerned performs the replacement or development of the public utility section with NIF Zrt., to carry out the construction within the framework of the investment and then hand over the public works or utilities created to the operator free of charge. CXXVIII of 2003 on the public interest and development of the motorway network of the Republic of Hungary is currently not in line with the area band to be protected between 100 and 100 metres for the implementation of the motorway roads set out in the Act on Accelerating and Simplification of investments of major importance for the national economy. with an area band of 250-250 m, as defined by law. The adoption of the amendment will be subject to standardisation. The amendments to the law on expropriation are justified because it is necessary for the implementation of the intermodal nodes laid down by law to be specifically named among the objectives of expropriation and public interest, thereby ensuring the legal basis for expropriation procedures. It is also appropriate not to examine the public interest objective by the Government Office, since, when the expropriation procedure is initiated, the applicant for the expropriation usually already holds a final building permit for the properties affected by the investment. A regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Regulation on the opening up of the market for domestic rail passenger services will enter into force on 24 December 2017, while our country should also ensure the entry into force of the legislative amendments necessary for its applicability in Hungary, and therefore the amendment of the Act on passenger services is necessary, inter alia, because of the obligation to harmonise legislation. In addition, the amendment proposal contains a number of clarifications among its other provisions which are justified on the basis of the experience of the period since the adoption of the law in 2012. These include, for example, complementing the rules on Community transport monitoring and clarification of data access rights. In addition to the above, it was necessary to supplement and clarify the application of the electronic ticket system in several places. The bill introduces the possibility for the transport operator to introduce a Community car rental system under the conditions laid down in the Government's decree. The regulation follows the pattern of the Community cycling system. The amendment also provides for clarification of the legal consequences applicable to bus and coach market surveillance and passenger rights authorities, the form of a complaint to the rail administration and the bus and coach authority. Since the Act on Passenger Transport Services was drawn up on the basis of the EC Regulation, the amendment of the EC Regulation also entails amending certain provisions of the Act for harmonisation purposes. This cannot be replaced by other means, which is included in the proposal. The legislative harmonisation amendment mainly concerns the functioning and conditions of rail passenger transport, the conclusion of public service contracts, the establishment of organisations ordering public transport services, the way in which service providers are selected and the rules for access to rail rolling stock. In public passenger transport services, revenue collection systems, ticketing and leasing systems and related passenger information and traffic management systems for ordering Community transport services [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and access to services... - One sentence, if I may, Mr. President.
u2017-11-15-24	Yeah.
u2017-11-15-25	Thank you very much. They are therefore key tools for improving access to services and competitiveness. On the basis of the above, the KDNP faction supports the submission. Thank you very much for your patience, and thank you very much, Mr President, for your understanding.
u2017-11-15-26	Thank you very much. Congressman Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2017-11-15-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Many points in the bill before us contain only technical amendments and compliance with international agreements. There is no problem with these, but the salad is only healthy in the form of vegetables; not in the form of such a bill. It's not clear. In many cases, the real regulatory objective is very difficult to extract from it, and the justifications are magnified and do not cover all the regulated points. The legislative amendment proposal is essentially grouped around two very important topics. One is NIF Zrt. the transfer of ownership to the statutory owner, operator and designated municipalities after the completion of the road developments carried out by him. However, it is quite surprising, in fact, that these transfers have not been carried out for a long time because of legislative shortcomings. The second is the integration of electronic ticket and rent systems in Community transport and the exploitation of data for transport operators. I must point out, in the latter instance, that the draft is unfortunately not the same as that contained in Jobbik's election programme, which aims to introduce uniform ticket and rental systems. The proposal concerns the integration of service providers' electronic ticket sales systems. Its introduction significantly facilitates customer-friendly operation, as well as the collection and processing of user-friendly information. However, the achievement of the strategic goal of transferring revenue from service providers to the transport operator at the same time as the reform of the tariff systems can be a prelude. It is also necessary to mention compliance with international agreements aimed at amending the Passenger Transport Act; the actual transposition of the EU regulations relating to the opening up of the market for domestic rail passenger services. The ultimate goal is to create a single European transport area by integrating the transport systems of the European Member States. The aim is also to increase the share of rail in the modal share and transport share, as each argument is in addition; environmental arguments, as transport accounts for 26 per cent of total damage emissions, but the emissions of pollution by rail are very negligible. However, with regard to liberalisation, we need to express the idea that capital-powered competitors may cause a competitive disadvantage for the domestic company, as well, since the good traffic lines will be razed, and the periphery will be left at the neck of the state, so liberalisation can only take place in a well-controlled environment, otherwise it will not be competition, but market distribution, as was the case in the United Kingdom at the time, and which has caused a complete railway disaster. [[10.50]] But let us look at the detailed explanation regarding Law I of 1988. Article 1 §: the provision introduces the institution of the right of appeal in the case of decisions issued in relation to the professional qualifications of drivers, which has not yet been available. This is a fully eligible proposal, which can also be seen as a democratic correction of a limitation resulting from a legal vacuum. Article 2 § with one exception NIF Zrt. and contains a set of rules for the settlement and registration of property rights following a road works project between municipalities. In my opinion, the provisions do not contain eligible elements, or even some small praise, as they represent an increase and strengthening of municipal property, of a decentralisation nature. In addition, it clarifies the regulation that in all cases the transfer is carried out at book value. It should also be supported that, in the event of a local road investment on a state-owned property, not only the road but also the transfer of ownership of the property must be carried out for the benefit of the municipality. I note that the transfer of ownership or management tasks does not represent a sufficient increase in resources for municipalities to maintain, and this is a problem. The explanatory memorandum also addresses this problem when it notes that, according to the current legislation, municipalities need to demand a transfer, which in many cases they do not do, because they also receive maintenance obligations. Following the amendment, the transfer takes place not on request, but on the basis of the law. As we know, the distribution of reserves is highly discriminatory, the balance sheet leans towards the larger number of settlements, so the advantage of clean ownership is immediately paired with the existing disadvantage of discriminatory allocation of reserves. Article 29 Paragraph 9 is a clever provision. On the one hand, it obliges private road owners to authorise the status of private roads which are blocked from public traffic and open to public traffic, or to require them to enter into the real estate register at their own expense, and, on the other hand, to penalise the default of these obligations by the status of the private road open to public traffic if the owners fail to comply with their statutory obligations. We're feeling some progress. A few years ago, it happened in South Somogy, when the Benetton lordship took hold of itself and blocked the roads that were actually owned by them, but could not be excluded from public traffic, from the local population. Then we went there a few times, lifted these gates, threw them away. The authority's reply at the time was not to punish those who committed this mischief with at least a symbolic force for a few thousand forints, but to relegate these private roads to be blocked from public traffic. We hope that, according to the amendment, these new Drills will be more careful about such actions from now on. Article 3 § specify the rules of procedure for the coordination, definition of technical content and financing of public utility and public utility development tasks related to road investment. It can be seen that substantial changes are being made in terms of setting deadlines and clarifying them in order to mitigate the damage caused by the delay in public utility development. At the same time, the definition of the technical content of justified utility replacements and upgrades and the realistic limitation of the agreements on this will remain the ability of the funder to undertake. Article 11 According to §, the NAV may also order roadblocks on the future road or private road: EKÁER and excise controls. Well, that puts us in a difficult position - I don't know how politically eligible it is. At the moment, a police intervention is required to order the roadblock, but considering Mr Tállai's actions, we would consider twice how much we give our support to this. In any case, in theory, it's eligible. Article 13 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. § amends the Mining Act. However, we cannot support this amendment. In practice, it suspends the application of the Mining Act to the establishment of production sites which provide material for the sub-structures of motorways. This proposal represents a disregard for environmental, water and land use interests, and it also hinders the possibility of favouring the use of construction and road dismantling debris that has been properly prepared for the establishment of motorways funds, which we consider to be an important step and target. It is extremely regrettable that the 2006 LIII on the acceleration and simplification of certain key investments reflecting the approach of the Gyurcsány government. Not only can the law be in force, but it is used in all investments which are dear or politically preferred to the government, essentially eliminating social, environmental, built environmental, land-use and land-protection aspects, thus not considering the extent and the need to compensate for the damage caused by the achievement of the kind aim. Article 16 is replaced by the following: § LVII of 1995 on water management Amendment of Law No 1. The authorisation would then be based on an administrative procedure without the request of the builder, so that the builder does not have to conclude prior water management legal arrangements. The new procedure against those affected by the right of access means an administrative emergency measure rather than an arrangement so far. This accelerated procedure is great again, but the more striking is the looting of those affected, who, in the final case, may be the possibility of losing the property through expropriation. I note that such accelerated procedures in the field of water management can inevitably run into faulty decisions that, due to lack of knowledge of water flows, lead to significant later damage to the environment, including damage to the built new facility. We also cannot support this proposal. 18-28. The provisions of this Article relate to air transport, road transport, water transport; they appear to be amendments of a legal harmonisation and technical nature. More interesting is Annex 2 to Annex 30. Paragraph 5. The mule already planned for the long term, i.e. it is neither a boy nor a girl, from the quick way to Kecskemét-Békéscsaba, the M3 border and Pécs-Barcs, as well as Balatonszentgyörgy-Zalaegerszeg, will switch to the road type. That's good, we support it. Mátészalka was included in the extension of the M3, but the previously planned connection and capacity expansion in Keszthely is unfortunately cancelled for the development in Zalaegerszeg. This is followed by a series of deletions: M1-Esztergom, Hatvan-Salgótarján, Somoskőújfalu, Bátonyterenye-Ozd, M7-Balatonlelle-Kaposvár, M1-Pápa. These previously foreseen road improvements will be deleted. So, whoops. The explanatory statement is that technical clarification, investment in the main road development approved by the government, is made by Áptv. It is also necessary to clarify the provisions of Annex II to this Regulation. I believe, by the way, that the settlements concerned and the population of the neighbourhood deserve more explanation than that. 31-37. § 3 of the 2005 CLXXXIII Convention on Rail Transport Amendments to Law No 1. These amendments are harmonised with amendments to the Road Transport Act by NIF Zrt. in terms of its development activity and the transfer of ownership of the improvements. The same applies to utility replacements in connection with the transfer of public utilities to the operator. Article 38 is replaced by the following: § 2 also relates to the Rail Transport Act. Set up a railway technical test centre. A new institution to which a number of tasks are assigned by the government in the event that the service is not required by the internal service provider but by a market participant. We think it's okay. It's 39-43. Paragraph 2 is also related to the Rail Transport Act, technical amendments. LIII of 2006 on speeding up the implementation of investments of major importance for the national economy. However, there are two amendments to the Act. The first is the legal harmonisation of the area band designation of motorways with the area band widened from 100 to 100 metres to 250-250 metres. [[11.00]] This means adapting to an earlier law, so it doesn't have anything new. In any case, I note that here we are talking about a 500-metre-wide area band, which the government has the right to designate by regulation. We accept that road construction is in the public interest, but not only in private interests, but also in the public interest, which is subject to the law for a long time, do not receive sufficient attention and redress. So we can't accept this in this form. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: § 2 contains new additions to this law. This includes such extras as the right of public service or other use for foreign-owned real estate, an official measure replacing the declaration of the public utility provider, the transfer of public works to be replaced by the establishment of a bicycle route at their own expense by the public utility provider within 90 days. Defendants who have been delayed shall be subject to the procedure laid down in Article 46. According to Section 5 of the Act, he is even fined, the extent of which is laid down in a regulation. The Government under this law is NIF Zrt. with its assistance, the appointment of intermodal nodes may also be laid down in a regulation. It is of great concern to us that, here, the government decides on long-term investments in the administrative area of the local authorities by ignoring, where appropriate, the opinion of the local government, which determines the life of the local government and the mobility of its inhabitants for decades. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you, I wish to continue later. [[Gregory Wolf applauds.]]
u2017-11-15-28	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. An independent Member is not in the room, but Mr Zsolt Legény asked for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2017-11-15-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address only one element of the bill before us. The Transport Salad Act before us amends several laws, including the Annex to the Motorway Act, if it qualifies several sections of the road from the current Highway Classification to a road trip. What I would like to highlight here is road section M49, which would extend from node 267 to border. We are very happy with this qualification, because this will now be a road trip, but we should also consider how to achieve it. Several accidents have occurred over the past period, and there have been problems that have resulted in a complete 24-hour or multi-day roadblock. Unfortunately, there was an accident of five; there was a time when disaster protection was involved, because a truck was involved in an accident that carried various chemicals, and almost the population was evacuated. So, I'd just like to say that it's a rather problematic road. I asked for the floor to highlight that we are very happy with this qualification, we are glad that the M49 will be a highway instead of a highway, and we just want to urge that as soon as possible, because the road section is problematic. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-15-30	Thank you very much. Congressman Jenő Manninger, Fidesz, in two minutes. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2017-11-15-31	Thank you very much. The speaker before me mentioned a question about my constituency, a transport issue regarding Keszthely. I would like to respond by mentioning that Keszthely's fast-track connection is cancelled. His bandages and renovations aren't gonna go away. It was decided that the expressway between Zalaegerszeg and the motorway would be directed reasonably to the airport in Sármellék and therefore the construction of the motorway would be unnecessary. So the connection of the city to the expressway network is done rationally, twice by a two-track highway. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-15-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Mr Ander Balázs, the Jobbik Group, has spoken. You have the floor.
u2017-11-15-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Then I'll pick up where I left off. Point 13 of the proposal is the XLI on passenger services. It contains amendments to Law No 1. I have already said here in the introduction that the amendments are primarily intended to introduce a single ticket and rental system. We can also welcome this, even if we have minor excuses for the story. However, the new concept of community car rental is introduced into the law. This is not a problem in itself, because it is an existing service segment supported by market demand, but it should not be confused with Community transport and passenger services even if market participants define their services as individualised Community transport. We find it weird to include him in this bill. Then, what we still object to is that legislation can make the establishment and maintenance of the Community bicycle system, as well as the Community car rental system, a task for transport operators individually or collectively, the bill states, if it is an integrated part of local passenger transport services in the capital, based on the decision of the Municipality of Budapest. We believe that the extension of Community transport services is appropriate and forward-looking in such a way that, for example, public services are involved in the absence of other solutions or, for reasons of efficiency, by minibuses, minibuses, taxis or even carpool solutions. It is limited, but the Community bicycle system can also be part of this whole amendment. At the same time, it is very strange why car rental and car sharing services would be included in the tasks of a transport operator when they operate and operate on a market basis. Car rental and car-sharing systems are not suitable for reducing passenger car traffic, but are more efficient and cost-effective. Here, we would strongly suggest that the rapporteur justify the amendment, even because, by virtue of the capital force of the transport operator, it may be appropriate for such services to be broken down on a market basis. And it's definitely undesirable to use taxpayers' money to buy car parks and then privatise your friends for pennies after a short trial failure. It should also be decided that the public service contract of MÁV Start is now open until 31 December 2023, but the bill contains a concept which may be omitted by the conclusion of a tendering procedure by 24 December. We are curiously looking forward to the answer, by the way, why the few days difference is here. So they can't rewire it or even extend it? What does the author really want? By the way, 62nd. We believe that the present public service contract is intended to be extended by two years. Art. 63. In the public service contract, the customer may be required to provide for the national interoperability of the electronic ticket system, the passenger information system and the traffic planning and management systems, as well as the provision by the customer or body designated by the public service provider or the compulsory use or application of the IT tools and systems ensuring the uniform operation of the public service timetable. Mr. Secretary. I respectfully ask why they can be ordered. If there is such a ticket system, it should be applied by all sub-service providers, i.e., if there is and the service provider receives revenue for the benefit of either you or the transport operator, it should be required. We don't think this is a wish show. Point 67 is replaced by the following: § regulates the definition of the content of the national interoperable electronic ticket system. In this respect, we really do not have any comments, and the amendment or presentation can be supported in this section. Article 68 There is another discrimination in a working-people-friendly robe. It is known that the government has been trying to make non-buy bus service in Budapest impossible for a longer time through the Municipality of Budapest. [[11.10]] Well, this is where the legal authority was wrapped in environmental and health glaze, while the renewal of BKV's bus fleet as a success story contains essentially 250 new buses, while at least 300 of all used himihumi purchases came in. By the way, they continue to operate cars 13-15 years of age or older painted to a nice blue. There are 200 pieces of about 30-year-old Ikarus. It should also be added that there are used-built buses that can fall out of circulation at any time, the previously used rosy Volvos, Citaros, Van Hoolok, Ikarus 412s and their companions. So, we do not understand, Mr. Secretary, that, while these do not interfere with the legislator or with the amendment of the law, in the case of a few dozen tourist buses, it is faithful, but it is important to have an environmental classification and aesthetic and comfortable appearance. So, what's this? So please, Mr Secretary of State, try to put away the doubt or concern I just expressed in the form that they are trying to favour certain groups of companies here, the friends who are interested in this tourist bus business. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-15-34	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[Dr. János Fónagy: Yes.]] Yes, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2017-11-15-35	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, in principle, to thank all speakers without exception for the support they have given to the part of the bill before us, which does not cover everything. Allow me to respond to some of the questions that have been raised by several of my fellow Members. One is the objection to the so-called salad law, which raises the question of how the proposal is presented itself. Ladies and gentlemen, in your comments, you have also said that this essentially covers all sectors of transport infrastructure and transport; that is, road, rail and all other sectors, which are traditionally regulated by separate laws, but the consistency of their regulations, both in time and in content, has been a very desirable thing in the past and in the present. I myself have been an author for 20 years, or sometimes a critic of this on the opposition side. I used to tell you it was a salad law. From the government side, I must say that yes, it is a salad law, necessarily because it regulates content and technical social issues. Among the points raised, I would also like to mention those which mainly affected road conversions. Maybe the simplest thing to do is the M49, the M3. Dear Parliament, The basic provision of the Government Decree on motorways, highways and the basic purpose of the government programme is to take our motorways and highways to the border. So taking to the border is now either under construction or during the pre-implementation planning period, but the fact that these will take place within a reasonable time, at the latest by the end of the next cycle is certain. The other points relating to the roads, which were left out of the annexes, concerned the reclassifying roads. Each of the motorways is almost without exception a two-track road, and rather than two-level crossings, they are usually solved by so-called turbo roundabouts. A good example of this is the road between Salgótarján and Hatvan, which is about to be completed; this two-track road with so-called turbo-circle systems. Thank you, Mr Jajah, for your support. I would like to say that, yes, we know that the EKAER was not supported, but I think it is clear to you that the EKAER has, by the way, fulfilled its expectations. It cleans up the economy, not to mention making tax conditions clearer and clearer. With regard to the transparency of electronic ticketing systems, I would like to say to my fellow Member Ander that the use of electronic ticketing and ticketing systems might be better. I agreed, but you're right, maybe it'd be better to have a ticket and rent system. In any case, it's part of it. My fellow Members, who are experienced in the field, are also well aware that electronic ticketing and ticketing systems, especially ticketing systems, have been developed separately in the last 10-12-15 years. Volán electronics made it, MÁV made it separately, the capital made it separately. These are interesting not only the sectoral differences, but also the temporal differences. If I remember correctly, the drivers did it first, then the MÁV, then the capital; which, by the way, means that, let's say, a system created ten years later clearly provides more modern, wider, more usable. Therefore, the inclusion of these in a single system, supported by you, raises the professional question of whether there must be some kind of consistency between them or whether it should be the most modern one to function as a comprehensive system. I am not an IT expert myself, but I believe that this professional issue should be resolved with your support as soon as possible. In the transfer of wealth, yes, it is indeed a very significant sum, Mr Józsa referred to it, more than HUF 1800 billion. Indeed, there was and there is a slowing factor that the municipalities did not always have an interest in taking over the completed facilities, since then the maintenance costs must be borne. It is clear that these measures should move in parallel. I agree with Mr Ander's emphasis on the fact that the Community car rental system should not be confused with the public service at the moment. This can be compared, in fact, with bicycle systems already used for similar purposes, but not with bicycles, but with cars, mainly with small cars. In my best memory, but not in the justification, the support for these systems also comes from the idea that they are electronically driven by the legislator, I suppose. Consequently, at least later, in the medium and long term, we expect it to improve significantly the environmental pollution of urban traffic. I would like to say to Mr Ander's points, thanking once again for his support for the parts which he has supported, that the possibility of proposing amendments is partly open there; however, with respect, I do not agree where we aim to speed up procedures. It is obvious that this also involves narrowing down the systems that have been more comfortable or provide more control, but I believe that you are also in favour of significantly reducing the duration of preparatory and regulatory procedures in this regard, including mining and water laws. At the same time, I would ask that wherever you consider it necessary to amend this bill, which is largely supported by you, you submit your proposals for amendment to that effect. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[11.20]]
u2017-11-15-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 1997 CLV on consumer protection follows. a general debate on the amendment of the Act and of the bill on the harmonisation of certain laws on the subject of organised travel until closure. The government referral is T/18305. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. János Fónagy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2017-11-15-37	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill includes a two-way regulation: a small amendment to the Consumer Protection Act, and legislative changes that were necessary because the European Parliament and the Council adopted on 25 November 2015 on travel packages and groups of travel services and amending Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 and Directive 2011/83/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directive 90/314/EEC. Directive No. From 2014 on, the consumer rapporteur will be required by multinational companies and public service providers in all counties and capitals where they carry out retail activities and where their customer services operate. The experience of consumer protection authorities has shown that in recent years, a number of major multi-company practices have spread in Hungary where a consumer rapporteur performs this activity in several counties, even in several enterprises. It is also typical that companies carry out consumer protection rapporteur activities with intermediary companies. By establishing this function, the original legislative goal was to keep the rapporteurs close to consumer complaints. Their task is to monitor the consumer protection activities of businesses, to strengthen consumer protection, to organise consumer education, to organise training for their own employees and customer service and customer service staff, and to communicate with the consumer authority and conciliation bodies, sometimes to participate in the conciliation panel's proceedings. The effectiveness of the rapporteurs may be questionable if a rapporteur performs this activity in several counties, since his daily duties are related to the local activity of the undertaking. In the case of employment through intermediaries, their loyalty to businesses and business interests may be impaired if they see into the economic activities, business policies or customer service activities of several undertakings with different profiles. In the long term, these trends could lead to a vacancy of office, thereby gradually eliminating the activities of consumer protection rapporteurs and endangering the business interests of businesses. The purpose of the amendment is to clarify the rules on consumer protection rapporteur included in the Consumer Protection Act and to promote a uniform application of national law. With the amendment, we fix the principle of a county, a rapporteur, an undertaking, according to which the consumer rapporteur can perform his duties only in a single county or in the capital, only in a single undertaking. By doing so, consumer protection rapporteur activity achieves its goal, which can mean fewer consumer complaints, better complaint handling, more satisfied customers for businesses. The amendment also provides that the consumer rapporteur may only be contracted on his own behalf, or may be in a business relationship with that undertaking. The amendment excludes the supply of consumer protection rapporteur activities by the intermediary company. This regulation is intended to ensure that consumer rapporteurs directly carry out their activities towards undertakings obliged to employ them and develop a consumer-friendly approach, be loyal, represent the interests of businesses and their consumers. The date of entry into force, which is 60 days after the publication, was determined to give the undertakings concerned sufficient time to prepare. Ladies and gentlemen, Tourism plays an important role in the EU's economies, and package-selling organised travels, holidays and social trips - travel packages - also represent a significant proportion of the domestic travel market. In addition to traditional distribution channels, the Internet is an increasingly important tool for advertising and selling travel services. Travel services are produced not only in the form of traditional travel packages, but often in combination on demand. These changes made it necessary to revise previous EU legislation. In recent years, consumer awareness, access to services and competition between service providers have become increasingly important in the European Union. The directive adopted aims to adapt the scope of protection of travellers to changes in the market for travel services, to increase transparency and to strengthen legal certainty for travellers and traders. By 1 January 2018, Member States shall adopt and publish amending provisions at the level of law, regulation or decision, but the rules adopted shall apply from 1 July 2018. The adopted national legislation shall be sent to the Commission. If transposition does not take place in time, the Commission has the right to initiate proceedings against our country, which may result in a significant amount of fines being imposed. In Hungary, the commercial law defines the tourist services activities of a commercial nature and the general conditions for their continuation. The new conceptual definitions set out in the Directive require changes in the definition of tour operators, travel agents and the introduction of a commercial activity to facilitate the use of a travel service and a combination of travel services. It is appropriate to provide for a ban on the opening of the package in order to ensure that the ban on the opening of the package of travel applies in practice, by clearly declaring it at the statutory level: the rule should not be circumventable, thereby making consumer rights more effective. It is therefore appropriate to give the consumer protection authority the power to verify this prohibition. In order to avoid damage caused by insolvent service providers and to ensure the stability of the travel market and a higher level of protection for travellers, it is appropriate to introduce, under existing financial security, compulsory insurance for travellers as beneficiaries. [[11.30]] This obligation to conclude an insurance contract must be laid down in the commercial law. The introduction of compulsory insurance reduces the liability of the financial security and provides cover for the return of travellers in the event of the insolvency of the tour operator and the payment of the costs of forced residence. Due to national compliance with the transposition of the Directive, it is necessary to amend the rules of Act V of 2013 on Civil Code concerning travel contracts. The Directive also allows for written and oral contracts for the package of travel and the group of travel services. The Directive also provides for the possibility of applying for a fee or claim for compensation within a limitation period of at least two years in the event of a breach of the contract by the contractor. This special statute of limitations in full, not just the Ptk. It also applies to a customer who is considered to be a consumer in the sense that it is justified to place a fee allowance or a provision relating to the limitation period of the claim for compensation in the rules of the travel contract, because of its specific nature. Dear Parliament, In the light of what has been said, I would like to ask that T/1830. Please discuss and support this bill. My fellow Members thank you for your attention, Mr President, for your patience. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-15-38	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Tamás László, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-11-15-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The T/1830 in front of us. I would like to say a few words about the bill on consumer protection. This aims to make two changes: one concerns the employment of consumer rapporteurs and the other concerns the amendment of the law on travel organisation and passenger rights, which is the fulfilment of our legal harmonisation obligation. Let's start from the beginning. In 2013, the Parliament decided that certain undertakings, which are typically multinational companies and public services, would have to employ a consumer rapporteur in all counties where their activities are carried out. The main aim of the rapporteur's work is to contribute, with their advice and everyday work, to the strengthening of companies' enforcement, as well as to the development of employees' knowledge of consumer protection and a consumer-friendly approach through their regular educational organisation. I believe that this is an undisputed goal to support everyone, since it is in the common interest to minimise the deception of the consumer or the exploitation of the gullible consumer. In recent years, it has been proven that consumer protection rapporteurs play a major role in the day-to-day functioning of the consumer protection system of businesses, whether it is dealing with consumer disputes, an official procedure or the definition or development of consumer protection policy, since the rapporteurs monitor the consumer-related activities of businesses, organise training courses for employees and keep in contact with statutory bodies. Overall, it can be concluded that over the last four years, the rapporteurs have integrated into the daily lives of businesses and are able to perform effectively what was the aim of the legislator when the consumer rapporteur institution was created. Let's look at the purpose of this amendment. The proposal before us sets out two objectives in relation to the employment of rapporteurs: one of the objectives of the legislator is to clarify the legislative obligation that a rapporteur can fulfil this function only in one county within an undertaking, i.e. a multinational undertaking with a national network must employ 20 consumer protection rapporteurs, since within an undertaking the rapporteur cannot be the same. I think that this is an entirely valid expectation from the profession, because no one can seriously think that a consumer rapporteur can perform professional tasks in Zala County in a given month and, for example, in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County. In my opinion, this clarification is entirely justified and should be supported. Another element, which can be said to be new, since this issue has not yet been addressed in previous legislative amendments, is that the legislator would also require obligated undertakings to employ only a consumer consumer rapporteur who does not hold a consumer protection rapporteur position in other undertakings and other counties, i.e. one rapporteur could only carry out its activities in one undertaking. Although this is also eligible for the basic objective of the proposal, it is still possible to examine whether this is not an excessive tightening of the consumer protection rapporteur institution, as this will give consumers who have performed this activity in several places in recent years, for example, in a contract arrangement, a chance to work only in one place in the future. For example, a consumer consumer rapporteur working in the department of Veszprém, who has performed the tasks required by this legislation in three or four large companies in recent years, would be able to perform in the future only in one undertaking what he has done in the past. Another major objective of the proposal for consumer protection rapporteurs is to exclude contract arrangements where, although a natural person is a consumer consumer rapporteur for the defendant, the contract of assignment was not concluded between the obligor and the consumer consumer rapporteur, but between a company and the obligated undertaking. This measure would, in future, retain the possibility of concluding a contract with consumer rapporteurs, but it could only be concluded with the natural person, not with an economic company. In order to strengthen and ensure transparency of the consumer rapporteur's institution, the objective should be essentially supported here, but it could also be considered if the obligated undertaking intends to conclude contracts with, for example, an association of consumer rapporteurs or a company consisting of consumer protection rapporteurs or a small family business. In this case, the personal conditions of the legislation would be available, such as education or qualifications, but they would only be able to contract as a natural person because of an administrative requirement, so that, although the personal conditions laid down by this legislation would be met by natural persons in accordance with the above examples, but they could only be contracted as individuals to carry out the tasks, as an economic company or as a civil society organisation. To sum up, therefore, my position on consumer protection rapporteurs, I believe that the legislative objective is correct, since it seeks to clarify the issues raised in the application of the law and the proposed amendments further strengthen the consumer protection rapporteur's institution, which is why I have come up with only a few small, semi-spoken, semi-professional questions. At the same time, I call on my fellow Members to support the adoption of the legislation. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-15-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. [[11.40]]
u2017-11-15-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, The aim of the proposal is to regulate package-selling organised travel, holidays and social journeys within the tourism sector. In addition, it amends and defines the provisions concerning the consumer rapporteur. It allows the enforcement of a fee or claim for damages in the event of a breach of a contract by contractors. We are transposing an EU directive on this amendment, which is felt by many, especially the victims of Green Holidays, that this is a delayed step. For if we had transposed this directive in early summer, then they would also be subject to this EU directive, which is the duty of all Member States to transpose it. Green Holidays Ltd. - well, everyone remembers it well - the failure of thousands of Hungarian families causing a great storm, which also raises suspicions of crime. In their case, not only did an expected holiday turn into a nightmare, but they lost money for many months, even years. According to the insurance company, they are under an insurance obligation of HUF 500 million, but it can already be seen that this amount was not sufficient for compensation at the time, since the return of passengers and the rental of aircraft could not have been covered by this framework. However, Article 7 of Directive 90/314/EEC, as a source of Union law, requires Member States to establish legislation allowing travel agents to have, in the event of their insolvency, an asset guarantee sufficient to recover the total amount paid by passengers. This legislative obligation of Hungary is set out in Article 213/1996. it has complied with the amendment of the government decree, but it does not even ensure that it has provided all the financial compensation. In English, we did not comply with the EU requirement, even though it would be in the interest of the Hungarian victims. We therefore find it a little late to adopt this directive, but also to be joyful, since at least in the future such offences cannot happen. The detailed paragraphs of the proposal, as amended in the previous point, could be agreed, but it raises a question as to why the consumer rapporteur's institution was amended in this draft. We have previously disagreed with the establishment of this system, so neither will we in this case. There is no legal consequence of failing to include a travel package contract in writing. As mentioned above, we believe that the section of the proposal that provides for stricter conditions for pre-contractual information is not sufficient. In view of the fact that the proposal fulfils the obligation to transpose a directive and regulates the conditions for travel packages, we can agree with the aim, but we also agree with the amendments to the Consumer Rapporteur because of our previous communication, and we also said why we could not agree with it. Therefore, T/1830. We will only be able to support this proposal with an amendment. Thank you.
u2017-11-15-42	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Hollik, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-11-15-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us, as Mr Secretary of State has explained in detail, essentially aims to regulate two economic sectors. One intends to strengthen the regulation of the consumer rapporteur's institution. This is indeed necessary because since the introduction, i.e. since 2014, a practice has been established by several major multi-companies in which a consumer rapporteur performs the activity in several counties, or in several undertakings, as required by the law. In addition, there is a growing phenomenon on the basis of which companies carry out consumer protection rapporteur activities with a intermediary undertaking, so they do not hire these rapporteurs on their own account. I think in order to decide whether this tightening up is necessary and good, we first have to answer the question of whether there is a need for consumer protection rapporteurs. I think that if we look at the consumer protection awareness and protocols of Hungarian businesses, then we should say that it is certainly worthwhile to make Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, but multi-enterprises and public service companies more aware of their consumer protection policy. In fact, this was the purpose of the consumer rapporteur's institution, since it was his task to monitor the company's activities concerning consumers, and he had to provide consumer protection education to the company's employees, especially customer service and customer service staff. I think these are good and eligible objectives. So we have to say that it is justified to recruit consumer protection rapporteurs in multi-companies or in the case of public services. However, if this is the case, it is necessary to examine whether a response should be made to the emerging phenomenon that has actually outsourced consumer protection rapporteurship in recent years. I think that we must, and this bill that lies before us is doing just that. In fact, it tightens the system by introducing a county, a rapporteur, an undertaking. I think that the aim of this is to make the consumer rapporteur really close to consumer complaints, because it is one of the objectives and, ultimately, to be close to those employees who deal with consumer complaints. Overall, we can say that consumer rapporteur requirements are now becoming clear, clarified and stricter. We can support a county, a rapporteur, an undertaking, and also the requirement that this job can no longer be performed by intermediaries, so that companies must hire the rapporteurs. Another objective of the bill concerns the tourism sector. Here, too, we believe that the ban on breaking the travel package is an important goal, and in order to ensure that it can be implemented in practice, we consider that it has been included in the law in expressis verbis to be eligible. What I would like to point out from this is that, indeed, by transposing the EU directive, the bill proposes that, in addition to the existing financial security, a compulsory insurance for the traveller, which must be covered by the law, be imposed on the traveller as a beneficiary by the tour operator. We strongly support this, because this insurance, this compulsory insurance, would cover the return of travellers and the payment of the costs of their forced residence in the event of the insolvency of the tour operator. Indeed, as Congresswoman Heringes has said, there has been a recent case, the Green Holidays case, which, if I recall correctly, has put 200 families in a difficult situation in this regard. I think that with this legislative change, such unworthy situations will be eliminated. We can therefore basically support this part of the bill. [[11.50]] We believe, however, that this supplement to the legislation is not intended to make small and medium-sized enterprises impossible to travel in the tourism sector. These are rules which do not represent a significant additional burden for these businesses, but at the same time provide a much greater protection for tourists and therefore passengers. We can therefore support this part of the bill. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-15-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2017-11-15-45	Mr President, Dear House, We are in the middle of a debate, to be more precise, at the main speaker's stage, when it can be said that we need to discuss very important intentions. I support these, by the way. At the same time, we find it completely pointless that the government is actually creating a torso or a hybrid by putting two topics which are only touchingly compatible with each other. And on one subject, there is such a delay in his line of action that it is something quite amazing. At the same time, it cannot be disputed that both the strengthening, strengthening of the consumer protection system and the regulation of the organisation of travel should be an urgent task. Since the framework for the general debate is very broad, and the honourable leaders are not usually intruding, so in addition to expressing my positive opinion myself, I would like to draw the rapporteur's attention to a number of areas that are to be settled, either from the logic set out here, or could be a logical next step. After all, what we see as a logical intervention for consumer rapporteurs is that, in terms of, say, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg and Zala counties, the same rapporteur does not help, in citing signs, the work of a multi-company or participate in the detection of maladministration. However, we also see that there is a question of the effectiveness of this rapporteur. So in addition to a decent bill, it would have been nice to see some calculations of how many budget forints this system brings back to Hungary along a invested forint. I know these are very rough estimates. I also know that in many cases there are no facts available, but if we are able to examine the activities of the State Audit Office, the activities of the GVH, and we do so in every budget debate, then we should also measure the activities of a very important unit of very weak, creaking and crunching consumer protection, whether in terms of the procedures launched, or in terms of reclaimed tax forints, fines, and, among others, the whole consumer protection system. In this context, we should find the place, role and how this can be deepened, as I would widen the powers listed here to a very large extent, and I believe that there will be agreement in this House in this regard. At the same time, we also see that monopolistic situations cannot develop in bulk along this tightening, but we also see that there is yet another important intention here with regard to intermediary companies. So you can't outsource it, in a fashionable word: you can't be subject to outsourcing and you can't be subject to the activity that the legislator otherwise imposed on a particular body. I would very much like the government to follow the same logic in the public procurement system, and this will be the case this week. Therefore, there is a perfectly logical right-hand proposal to ensure that public procurement in Hungary can be obtained by those who have either production technology, know-how or have at least 80% of the requested workforce mass. Therefore, the chains that are the hotbeds of corruption should not develop, and unfortunately, we also owe them a mass of abuse in the present Hungary. So I would like to see the same logic, the same philosophy, in other Fidesz-KDNP legislative proposals. And we also need to see that on the passengers or victims of the Green Holidays, we can say them to victims, it is not certain that this late bill will help me to move a little to the other subject of this whole thing, but guaranteeing, restoring and securing passenger rights is also a very important issue. And here's the painful point, I'll say it again, in addition to providing support, that we've brought these up in countless other areas. Let me give you an example. Here, one of our colleagues in Parliament has repeatedly spoken about the fact that illegal guided tour, which in fact can be continued without consequences in Hungary, is an important one in the capital, but throughout the country, not only makes impossible the work of hundreds of decently prepared and living Hungarian guides, but also causes immense damage to our country image, while thinking that even a person from another continent who is explaining Hungarian history to a group of tourists in the field of Heroes is receiving a check of five thousand forints issued to him in a language he doesn't understand and can't interpret. You're going home to your country or anywhere else, and you can basically destroy the image of Hungary, which is beautiful, wonderful, but it could be even more wonderful. So illegal guided tour is a small area, but unfortunately, this government couldn't get there in seven and a half years, even though it wasn't announced from the street, it wasn't announced in a receiving hour - don't underestimate the receiving hours, I'm actually always bringing them into Parliament - but this was also indicated from within the House, and the government couldn't even resonate. Imagine what happens when a citizen, let's say, tries to get his currency-credited case up and running for help when he's in a betting class. So it can be seen that the government has a follow-up attitude, but it is even slow to do so, even incompletely. The reason why I would like to draw attention to these seemingly sub-areas and I wanted to draw attention to it is precisely that their unregulatedness also causes amazing national economic damage. So if, in any sector of the national economy, a whole Hungarian industry or Hungarian service sector is impossible without consequences, this means a two-way message. On the one hand, it is a message to all other Hungarian SME companies that they can do it to you at any time, because there is no umbrella. And a message for financial hyenas, abusers, illegals, that it is possible to fish in Hungary in confusion, while I want it not to be. So it is quite clear to me that the task of appearing here in a bill is to prevent intermediary companies from carrying out the activity that the legislator intended for someone. Okay, but let's say this back in all the others, then let's continue to have similar debates about the public procurement system; let's see the proposals that contain clear normative rules on how to put Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises below HUF 200 million annual turnover or with less than ten employees, namely those that are also a kind of damage to growth credit programmes, since they only have a one-digit percentage of resources for this huge amount of money. And if on the other side there is, where appropriate, a sort of intention to settle passenger rights or to strengthen regulation, then this should cover each sub-area. If the government does not wish to bring this in one package, although it would make sense, ask experts to talk to market participants. Once again, in a manner which can be traced back from the records, there have been signs of this within the House. Find these actors, because it would be the job of the Hungarian Parliament, in a proactive way, to provide solutions to a sense of market, business, national security, comfort zone, not to put something on the table, which was mandatory, but not to be able to take full action in a manner that follows, often in accordance with EU directives or dictatorships, with one or two years of delays. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-15-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As independent Members do not take part in the debate, I now give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, MSZP Group, for a two-minute speech.
u2017-11-15-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member, Anita Heringes, has already said in his speech that we will be presenting an amendment and, if you support it, we will be able to support the bill; I would not repeat it. I would just like to highlight the proposal for a regulation, and we consider it a very good legislative intention to try to prevent cases such as Green Holidays from happening in the summer. This was the case where more than 500 Hungarian citizens were virtually stranded abroad, because that Green Holidays Kft. He went bankrupt as a travel agent. We are particularly pleased, by the way, if at least this is regulated by law, so that these cases may not happen in the future, because even in that case, it was the Uniqua insurance company that, let's say, entered the space and managed to get these people home through it. So that was a pretty big problem here this summer. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-15-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will be two more minutes of speeches. I give you the floor. Mr Z. Kárpat to Dániel. Here you go. [[12.00]]
u2017-11-15-49	Mr President, Dear House, Since there will be no major debate - from group dynamics at least that is what I have to conclude - I would like to share one more aspect with those present in terms of how it is possible to legislate and regulate consumer maladministration, to deepen regulation, but I would also like to draw the attention of the government to the fact that when it enters into a strategic contract with the relevant multi-companies, i.e. with those that we are talking about in the regulatory round, it would be worth concluding these strategic contracts - or closer to me - to conclude the same intentions at the time of the current renegotiation. After all, travel management is an excellent example of abuse in a relatively strictly regulated area that has occurred at the expense of hundreds of Hungarian consumers and citizens. Of course, it is possible to tighten up further, but this basic philosophy should also be laid down in the agreement with business partners. Similarly, as we say, the long-term wage catch-up should and should have been concluded in these strategic contracts for the multi-enterprises concerned, because if we look at the otherwise very weak increase in Hungarian productivity, we find that the increase in Hungarian wages, which is even weaker, is still lacking. So if these scissors are first approached and then eliminated, then we can see that Hungarian salaries can actually and can go up. But once again, I would like to emphasise that this basic philosophy must also be laid down in the strategic treaties, that Hungary cannot be built on cheap labour, and, as the Prime Minister said, the code of flexible work, and that this colonial vulnerability should be removed, from consumer protection to the organisation of travel, in all areas. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-15-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. István Józsa, Member of the MSZP Group, applied in writing. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-15-51	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. This is an agenda that shows precisely that legislation can, however, have a very important role to play in protecting consumers. So if we look at the dates that the European Parliament and the Council adopted on 25 November 2015 a regulation prohibiting the dismantling of travel packages, thus providing consumers with an increased protection if the Hungarian government and the Hungarian Parliament did not meet this by the very last deadline - because the pro form deadline was 1 January 2018 - but, let's say, earlier, it would have been possible to prevent nearly 600 Hungarian citizens, travelers, consumers and people seeking holiday abroad on 2 July of this year, as a result of Green Holidays travel agency's sales practice and bankruptcy. Therefore, it seems that if EU legislation was born in November 2015 for the benefit of consumers, this is a known problem. I am not saying that the Hungarian government regularly accuses Brussels of slowness and over-bureaucratisation. Now, this slow, tohonya Brussels introduced this regulation on 25 November 2015 to protect consumers, which could have protected Hungarian consumers, too, if the Hungarian government had brought it to Parliament, and, say, a year ago, we would have made this regulation, which is now in front of us. So one eye cries, the other one laughs. My eyes laugh at the fact that we have this proposal to adopt legislation on harmonisation, but my tears are pouring out, in fact, of both, because these 600 Hungarians would have gotten away with it if our government hadn't been more bleak than the Brussels they criticized a lot and didn't bring this proposal to Parliament so slowly. The other thing I would like to say is that this is the case of consumer protection rapporteurs. We also considered this to be weak in the original proposal when it was brought here for harmonisation in the EU, how to have such a rapporteur, we still thought that this should be regulated much more thoroughly. Now one thing has come up here, so that large traveling multi-company companies can hire such a consumer rapporteur at least every county. That's very good. So let's have the opportunity to provide correct information. But there is another end of this chain of markets, the travel market, the one-man KFTs, the travel agencies with a few people. So it should also be borne in mind that when a single-eye manager is the travel agency itself, he advertises the way, and when he reaches the end of the information as the manager, he sits on the other chair, telling the customer that I would like to inform you now as a consumer consumer rapporteur about what I have said so far, to draw attention to this in the offer I have presented, because otherwise the small-letter parts are wrong. I do not want to put irony to the finish, but we also need to put regulation on small companies that can be complied with at all, workable and protect consumers. I believe that the transposition of the EU directive is certainly correct, so the legislative goal is to prevent cases such as the Green Holidays scandal from occurring by breaking down this package of travel sales and providing different guarantees for each element. We very much hope that in the future there will no longer be an opportunity to do so by circumventing the legislation so that the offices will break down travel packages into separate elements. In fact, it is also possible to agree with the paragraphs of the other point of the proposal. It raises a question as to why the consumer rapporteur's institution was introduced in this draft, because in the end, the two are only similar in terms of travel. In the past, we have indicated that it would be good to clarify in greater detail that this job as rapporteur for consumer protection can also achieve its true purpose. In order to fail to include the travel package contract in writing, there is no legal consequence, as I mentioned earlier. In our view, the section of the proposal that provides for stricter conditions for pre-contractual information is not sufficient, but that the documenting of non-registration or at least of the information should be resolved. So I would like to encourage the rapporteur not to expect so much at other times with the introduction of such a possible solution and protection of EU harmonisation for consumers, and not to be slower than the bureaucracy of Brussels, which has been scolded a lot. On the other hand, make it possible for legislation provided by law to work in practice. So the consumer rapporteur's institution, if it is sufficiently life-like, can be useful, as well as the case of insurance contracts. Because it's a fact that travel agencies have to sign an insurance contract to bring their passengers home even if they can't. [[12.10]] But it doesn't matter what conditions, what certifications, how quickly, how smoothly they do it. There is much to be done with a travel insurance solution that puts, say, proof somewhere, that it sets a three to four-day time limit, during which the passenger should be home. So what I think is that the consumer should be guaranteed - this is also a consumer protection aspect - that the passenger insurance contract concluded by the travel agency is, say, a protection for the day. If the company goes bankrupt one day, he's supposed to come home the next day, someone's gonna figure this out. Therefore, not only can an undertaking in principle, but also provide guarantees of effective practical assistance in such an insurance contract. So I welcome the fact that the Ministry has dealt with this, that it has put such proposals here, but I would urge it not to stop this blessed activity, because Hungarian consumers do deserve this increased protection. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-15-52	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group.
u2017-11-15-53	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to pick up where Mr Józsa left off his last sentence, namely that Hungarian consumers deserve more attention. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that since you have been in government, this consumer protection has almost disappeared as an area of government, so it is very rarely heard here in Parliament or even in terms of government proposals or budgetary resources. I could also say that you are underestimating the importance of consumer protection in Hungary today. Not to mention that there are many examples in Europe where consumer protection is still treated as a separate ministry or at least as a minister. Today, in Hungary, it is almost untold who is responsible for this area, while achieving the goal that my fellow Member Józsa spoke about to protect Hungarian consumers, it would certainly require development and more resources, as in the case of county consumer protection authorities, they also have so few inspectors, who may already be known from the face by companies to which they might go. It is therefore very difficult to expand or deepen control plans where appropriate, because if there is not enough resources, there are not enough qualified people, and then there is no way to reveal even in advance the type of problems that my fellow Members have talked about in relation to tourism. I would therefore suggest to the government that, where appropriate, particularly in places where there are either tourist destinations or high tourist destinations, or where a large number of companies are registered, or where they carry on their activities, there should be much greater resources for consumer protection. It would therefore be worth developing the number of staff, and it would be worth expanding the control plans. Of course, the purpose of an audit plan should not only be to impose fines and thus even to obtain revenue from the budget, and to induce tax or any other company to comply with the law; it is also important that the prior information or, where appropriate, the warning here in another debate concerning the tax authority, Mr Tállai State Secretary or one of the Fidesz Members said that the attitude of the tax authority is changing, I think that this is correct. The solution to consumer protection is not the focus of fines, as consumer protection is also the task of ensuring that different companies act in compliance with the law. That is why I say that the information itself is of great importance, and then, in the case of any violation, the warning, in accordance with its weight, can encourage legal behaviour, and then, of course, if all of this does not lead to results, it is, however, a strict punishment that will enable these companies to be better understood; in Hungarian: the development of numbers and the expansion of control plans. I'd give you a much bigger media coverage. You spend so much money on various propaganda campaigns, posters, others, government hate campaigns, I do not understand exactly why consumer protection does not deserve much more media coverage, much more cases should be reported by the media, even in government campaigns, as the public can also be a deterrent. Last time I read an article about a catering unit, we're talking about tourism where tourists arrive regularly. This must be bad not only for tourists, but also for the image of the country. In addition, this happened at a site where there has been a similar incident before. It was closed and then reopened and continued the same activity. If, at least, consumers are informed of this in the media, so to speak, or in English, then there must be more attention to these types of scandals. It's perfectly natural for all of this, as I just said, to require a lot more resources, but this more resources will be lost, by the way, in addition to, say, building a stadium. As much as it cost, let's say, the Stadium of Progress in Szombathely, it would certainly be possible to solve 120 percent of these problems. I would also like to think from the point of view of the government that there is only a need for some kind of coordination between government bodies, because here, in addition to food security, there are many areas of consumer protection, in addition to services and trade in goods. Many authorities have a duty to enforce legislation in these areas. In any case, this would deserve some kind of coordination within the government. As should be considered in the next parliamentary term, there was a Committee on Consumer Protection in Parliament earlier, that, if not as a main committee, but as a subcommittee, it would be worth devoting to a separate parliamentary body, a committee, because by having such a sub-committee at least, this area will certainly have more attention and a greater lobbying power, even when planning the budget. So I really wanted to take this opportunity to draw attention to the fact that the issue of consumer protection has been unfairly put behind us, while in Europe, the United States and the world, in many places, it is in fact strengthening these objectives, strengthening the authorities involved and this type of activity. While, of course, it is also a legitimate expectation and suggestion, if I mention the European or international context, that it would also be worth reviewing what legislation and rules should be complied with by the various companies, which, where appropriate, are already in the category of exaggeration. So it is also fair to suggest from the other side, from the side of companies or from representatives of the sector that in many cases it is true that unnecessary conditions must be met by companies that make their operation more costly and complex. Somewhere this work should also be done with the cooperation of the various interest representatives, what are the rules that are really necessary for quality services, goods or consumer safety, and what is, where appropriate, over-expansive bureaucracy and administration, which, in turn, should be broken down. This might make it easier for companies to meet the otherwise correct context, and perhaps this balance should also be put to the attention of those involved in this debate. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-15-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if there is anyone else who would like to speak on our agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said on behalf of the rapporteur. [[12.20]]
u2017-11-15-55	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me begin by thanking you for all or part of the comments that support you, and also thank you for the improvements that I hope will be made in amendments and which will be discussed by the committee responsible for this. In addition to forwarding this, allow me to make one more comment. During the discussion of the previous agenda, it was mentioned that there were referrals to the draft salad law. And I think that there are also contributions from representatives of salad in the good sense of the word. It is very difficult to respond fully to these comments by its representatives, as they concern a very wide spectrum, so allow me to respond only to comments directly related to this draft law. Several of my fellow Members objected to the delay in the presentation. Of course, not allowed, but accepted to say that there is no work that cannot be done in a shorter time, there is no work that cannot be done better, but every work has an optimal time to do it. The submission itself was not too late, since the deadline for transposition is 1 January 2018, so we are on time. With regard to what my fellow Members consider to be late, allow me to point out that this draft was also discussed very carefully by the colleagues who drafted it with the relevant professional organisations. This discussion has a period of time, it has its own procedure, if you like, a dance schedule - it takes time. If we do not do so or if we do not do it with sufficient thoroughness, then we are rightly criticised for the fact that the government is presenting a professional proposal in such a way that the opinions of the professional organisations concerned are not taken into account in sufficient depth or depth. I say to my fellow Member, Mr Z. Carpathian, that there is no ban on mediation, that can continue to be done, but the relationship between travel intermediaries and organisers is regulated more clearly by the proposal, which is not disputed by anyone. The general comments relating to tourism, the organisation of travel and others, such as the guided tour, are not the subject of the present proposal. Let me draw my fellow Members' attention to the fact that, in recent years, a comprehensive national tourism strategy has gone beyond the previous one in many respects, has modernised previous professional organisational and institutional issues relating to tourism, and there are a number of elements that are now sometimes even critical. By the way, allow me also to add that we welcome any improvements and improvements made in this regard, as well as any proposals made by Members. Congressman Mesterházy said that consumer protection has recently disappeared. He has not disappeared, he is responsible for consumer protection, he is led by a highly experienced Deputy State Secretary, who receives all the money, steeds, weapons and everything for his work - in order to give an example of Hungarian literature. In this respect, too, I am absolutely right that there is no activity that can't be done better. We also fully agree that the tasks involved and the results achieved should be made more public. This is highlighted in the strategies and we will try to act accordingly. I also agree with you and with my fellow Members that consumer protection is perhaps the most important social control body for trade and other services, and its role is, of course, increasing, and that this growing role must be dealt with by a state dealing with it. I believe that this attention is also reflected in our present proposal, so I would like to ask again for this support, and with amendments I would like to ask for a possible improvement of the text of the proposal. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-15-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law amending certain laws relating to state wealth and national financial services will follow until closure. Government referral T/18311. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. János Fónagy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2017-11-15-57	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before you seeks to amend a number of laws relating to national wealth and national financial services, taking into account current experience in the performance of public tasks and economic conditions, and also government expectations in relation to their management. One of the most important objectives of the bill is to help Hungarian Development Bank Zrt. and MFB companies to support the domestic development goals by more effective allocation of their own, EU and other international resources, thereby contributing to the country's economic growth and competitiveness. According to the bill, the provisions governing EU resource management activities will be amended within the framework of the relevant EU legislation in order to enable the MFB to perform this activity more effectively than previously. This will help to achieve the strategic objective supported by the Government for the MFB group to ensure that EU funds are used as efficiently as possible in order to maintain economic development, thereby increasing the weight of the use of these resources in domestic development policy, thereby helping to strengthen and increase businesses. In addition to EU funding activities, support for national and social investment and funding targets remains an important area for the MFB's development banking. The bill aims to ensure the MFB's economic development efforts by clarifying, updating the MFB's tasks and expanding its financial services activities. The bill also provides for the possibility for the MFB to contribute to the government's objectives of financing investments that are of particular importance for the city's image. In this context, the role of the MFB is to take part in the provision of loans and loans related to the maintenance, restoration, renovation or conversion of buildings for the maintenance, maintenance, restoration or conversion of buildings for the maintenance of the building and the protection of the natural environment, in the form of loans or loans for the financing of investments, as defined in the Government Decree. [[12.30]] It should be stressed, however, that in this context, the participation of the MFB in line with the EU's requirements for development banks will, of course, only be possible if the owners of these properties would not have access to financing from commercial banks. A more colourful range of services and products is essential for successful development banking with the focus on value-enhancing services, so this amendment can open the way for the continuation of venture capital and capital investment activities, support for early-stage businesses, so-called startups and innovation. Ladies and gentlemen, The law on national assets lays down that the basic purpose of national assets is to ensure that the public service is performed and that national property is to be managed in a manner which is responsible for its purpose. Responsible asset management ensures that national assets can be transferred free of charge only in cases and under conditions laid down by law. The State Property Act defines cases in which, in order to assist in the performance of the public service mission undertaken by the State or local government, the Government may decide in a public decision to transfer the assets owned by the State free of charge. The religious communities in Hungary are a key source of value and community-creating factors in society, which play a significant role in the life of the country and the nation, in addition to their faith-life activities in education, education, higher education, health, charity, social, family, children and youth protection, as well as cultural, environmental, sports and other activities, as well as in the care of national consciousness. The Parliament last amended the property law in order to assist the ever wider public activities of churches and church institutions in order to ensure that, in addition to public bodies and civil society organisations, churches also receive free asset relief in the event of public service. This right will now be extended, by which church legal persons, such as monastic orders, can obtain state wealth free of charge in order to facilitate their religious functions or to facilitate the performance of state, in particular educational, social, family, children's and youth, or cultural tasks. The other provisions amending the State Property Act are the Hungarian National Property Management Company, which exercises ownership rights. deal with issues raised in the application of its daily law. These amendments will further increase the efficiency of the exercise of ownership rights and ensure effective, cost-effective and value-saving asset management. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The amending provisions on asset management include amendments to the law on the provision of housing for natural persons who cannot fulfil their obligations under the credit agreement. This is aimed at MNV Zrt. exercising ownership rights over properties in order to ensure the efficient use of certain vacant residential properties for public purposes. take over the immovable property concerned from the National Asset Manager with partial termination of its asset management contract. As is known, one of the key elements of the government's series of domestic protection measures is the National Asset Management Ltd. a programme operated by the Member State concerned. The core activity of the National Asset Management Act is to provide housing for real estate owners who have been unable to pay their mortgage loans for a long time and who are also socially dependent. The properties offered by the creditor banks were offered by NET Zrt. acquires it for the Hungarian State and leases it to the original owner and his family for an indefinite period of time. Net Zrt. exercise trust rights over residential property purchased on behalf of the State. The amendment is made by NET Zrt. the exercise of ownership rights may be carried out by the owner on the basis of the general rules on asset management. Dear House, The major changes to the bill before you also concern legislation on the integration of savings cooperatives. As regards the operation of savings cooperatives, one of the most important governmental aspects is the effective performance of institutional protection tasks and the proper functioning of the internal control of integration, the depositary of which is the Integration Organisation of Cooperative Credit Institutions, hereinafter referred to as the Integration Organisation. The draft legislation therefore primarily proposes the composition and responsibilities of the bodies of the Integration Organisation in order to ensure that the members of the savings cooperative integration carry out their activities under high-quality management and professional management, which responds to problems effectively, and that the institutional protection system of the sector ensures that the interests of customers and of all institutions are met. On the basis of the bill, there will be stricter professional competence and conflict of interest requirements for members of the board and management of the Integration Organisation. In addition, the Management Board, with the exception of significant sanctioning measures, may delegate certain decisions to the management of operational tasks in order to ensure a faster and more effective response. It will also include a toolbox on the control tasks of the Integration Organisation, the activities of savings cooperatives through intermediaries will be monitored in the future, and a temporary expert will be able to be used to improve the effectiveness of the controls. In addition to the provisions for the better functioning of the Integration Organisation, the important innovation of the bill for savings cooperatives is the change in the level of voting rights of each member at the Assembly of the Integration Organisation. The MFB has a majority of 51 percent in view of its membership of the integration organisation and public engagement, while the remaining votes are divided equally among the other members, giving a much more serious say in the operation of integration. As a result of the merger processes in the sector, member organisations of approximately the same size will be formed by the end of this year, which should be given equal and greater voting rights. As a result, savings cooperatives can represent their interests more effectively than previously in shaping the future of the sector. The further innovation of the bill is that the Assembly of the Integration Organisation is responsible for establishing the annual amount of the membership fee, so that the determination of the amount of the membership fee, if necessary, will be placed in the members' decision-making competence, with a minimum level of statutory fixing. In addition to the above, the bill contains minor corrections and clarifications, taking into account the intermediate results of the establishment of a single IT system. [[12.40]] As a result of the legislative amendment, a regulatory framework will be put in place that better meets the European Union's expectations and is even more suited to financial market challenges in order to create and maintain a stable and consolidated operation for savings cooperatives in the long term. Dear Parliament, A very large proportion of the country's population is involved in the provision of postal services, and it is therefore important that the application of rules to combat money laundering and terrorism in the postal services sector causes as little administrative burden and time loss for customers as possible. Accordingly, the purpose of the amendment of the Law on the Prevention and Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing and the Postal Services Act, in accordance with the EU Directive on the Prevention of Money Laundering, is to allow for a reduction or simplification of the scope of data recording and customer due diligence obligations related to small amounts of postal cash payments linked to the daily lives of citizens, but not presenting a real risk to money laundering. It is also necessary to amend the legislation on postal services in order to ensure the smoothness of the procedures of the postal check-in practice on money laundering rules, thereby reducing the waiting time and administrative burden for customers in their day-to-day administration. Complementing the regulation is also justified by a proportionate set of requirements adapted to the financial activity of employees of the universal postal service provider. The participation of prepared postal staff in this activity is a fundamental requirement for customer protection, and therefore postal internal training is carried out on the basis of the criteria set out in the MNB Regulation. Dear House, The most important element of the bill for amending the bankruptcy law is the inclusion of additional guarantees in the regulation to facilitate the transparency and impartial functioning of winding-up operations. The amendment sets out, as an example, the activities by which it intends to provide guidance to the legislator on the assessment of impartial activities in the context of winding-up activities, giving an extension of the existing prohibited activities. The amendment of the bankruptcy law will, inter alia, make the necessary regulatory corrections on the basis of practical experience. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, the bill can contribute to the expansion of domestic economic recovery opportunities, to the long-term stability and consolidation of the savings cooperative sector by extending the efficiency and service scope of development banking. Changes to postal services are intended to reduce and make more flexible administration on the part of customers arising from EU money laundering legislation. The result of the amendment and clarification of the rules on state assets is that the holders of asset management relationships can exercise their rights and fulfil their obligations under clear liability rules. On this basis, I would like to ask you with all due respect to discuss the proposed legislation and to support the regulatory intention set out in the bill. I thank you for your attention and Mr President for your patience. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-15-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Mihály Witzmann, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-11-15-59	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/18311 in front of us. Legislative proposal No 1 proposes amendments to several laws. In my speech, I try to address a number of elements of the bill before us, without the need for completeness, only a few amendments which I consider essential. XX. of 2001 on the Hungarian Development Bank With regard to the amendment of the Act, I would like to point out that the banking activities of the MFB group are very important for economic development purposes, which is why the amendment before us wants to make concrete proposals to rethink and clarify the role of the bank. For example, according to the proposal, the MFB will be able to support so-called startups and innovation in the future through the purchase of various investment fund shares and venture capital fund tickets. In addition, the bill also aims to create the possibility for the Hungarian Development Bank to contribute to the government's objectives of financing investments that are of major importance for the city's image. In this context, the role of the MFB is to take part in the provision of loans and loans in the form of loans for the maintenance, restoration, renovation or restructuring of buildings for the maintenance, maintenance and uniform protection of the built and the natural environment, in the form of a key national memorial and urban image protection environment, as defined by the Government's decree. However, it should be stressed that the participation of the Hungarian Development Bank in this area, in line with the EU's requirements for development banks, can, of course, only be achieved and will only be possible if the owners of the property would not obtain funding from commercial banks in connection with these renovations. The bill we are going to discuss includes the 2007 CVI on State Property. the amendment of the law. One of the aims of the amendment of the property law is to ensure that, in addition to churches, even church legal persons, such as monastic orders, have access to state wealth free of charge in order to facilitate their religious functions or to facilitate the performance of state tasks, in particular educational, cultural, family, child protection, youth protection. Of course, it is important to stress that, even when giving free ecclesiastical property, particular attention must be paid to the precise and precise compliance with the limits laid down by the annual budget law. Another essential element of the amendment is that it raises the rule of law that has been applied so far, that the sale of state property subject to the Law of Property is exclusively carried out by Magyar Nemzeti Vagyonkezelő Zrt. is operated by a so-called electronic auction system. I would like to note here that the 2011 CXCV on public finances. of course, the law was amended in accordance with the amendment of the Law on Property. The next element of the package of proposals is the amendment of the law on the integration of cooperative credit institutions and the amendment of certain economic legislation. The amendment to the functioning of the cooperative sector aims to ensure that the members of the cooperative credit institution's integration operate under high-quality management and professional management, which responds effectively to problems, and that the institutional protection system serves the interests of all cooperative credit institutions and their clients in a balanced manner. The proposal primarily proposes the composition and responsibilities of the Integration Organisation of Cooperative Credit Institutions, hereinafter referred to as SZHISZ. The management and management board of the SZHIS in question and the management members of the management will be subject to stricter professional competence and conflict of interest requirements. The Management Board of the SZHISZ may delegate the decision to the management of the operational tasks in respect of certain decisions, not including significant sanctioning measures. There is also a toolbox for the audit tasks of SZHISZ. The activities carried out by intermediaries can also be monitored and temporary experts may be used in order to improve the effectiveness of controls. In addition, the rules of exit from integration organisations are added to the case where a member who is not involved in joint and several liability does not wish to leave a savings cooperative in Hungarian. In this context, it will also be necessary to amend the rules on the management of members' contributions. [[12.50]] These provisions are essentially intended to serve the better functioning of the Integration Organisation of Cooperative Credit Institutions and have no substantial impact on the powers, tasks and activities of each cooperative credit institution. The 2011 CLXX on the provision of housing for natural persons who cannot comply with their obligations under the credit agreement will be amended in the context of State property law. also to amend the law. It is known that the National Asset Management Ltd. Its statutory core activity is to provide housing for real estate owners who have been unable to pay their mortgage loans for a long time and who are also socially in need. In such cases, properties offered by the creditor banks are purchased by the National Asset Manager to the Hungarian State and leased to the original owner and his family for an indefinite period. According to the law, the National Asset Management Ltd. exercise trust rights over residential property purchased on behalf of the State. However, in order to ensure the efficient use of certain vacant residential properties for public purposes, it is justified that the Hungarian National Property Management Ltd. exercising ownership rights over the real estate. may take over the property concerned, subject to the partial termination of the property management contract. According to the legal provisions, the National Asset Management Ltd. the right to manage property on the basis of the designation by the relevant legal provision, by virtue of the power of the law, in respect of the property purchased by it, so that the right to manage property is maintained until the relevant legislative provision has been amended. Accordingly, the proposed amendment provides for the partial termination of the property management contract for certain vacant properties. LIII of 2017 on prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing According to the amendment of the Act, as regards the application of the rules to combat money laundering and the recording of data on transfers of funds to postal services, the amendment intends to propose the removal of non-risky postal transactions from the scope of the Anti-money laundering Act. In order to reduce or avoid disproportionate administrative burdens, it is proposed to submit a proposal in order to reduce the burden on customers, such as the payment of taxes, levies or various fines in the case of postal cheques. This change is intended to serve a simpler, faster and more efficient administration. The 2012 CLIX on postal services. Therefore, one of the reasons for amending law is to facilitate the practice of law enforcement in relation to rules to prevent money laundering, namely that in future domestic postal cheques for the payment of taxes, duties and duties should indicate the issuer's so-called customer due diligence level for that transaction. This will reduce the administrative burden on the mail, but the regulation will continue to comply with the EU anti-money laundering and terrorist financing law. On the other hand, the proposal also eliminates the existing duplication in the training system for postal workers, which has been found in the knowledge of these trainings. Finally, the proposal is XLIX of 1991 on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. It also sets out the intention to amend law, namely to remove an existing gap in the interpretation of the provisions relating to the continuation of winding-up activities and the inclusion of liquidators in the register. The proposal also proposes to limit the inclusion and aims at reducing the administrative burden. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the proposals for amendments I have presented aim at both the growth of the Hungarian economy, the efficient and responsible management of assets and the reduction of administrative burdens. That is why I ask you to support the adoption of this amendment by your votes after the debate has taken place. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-15-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-11-15-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, This is such an important law that, contrary to its title, although its title is state property, which is really a sublime thing if it is to be protected, this proposal actually concerns a much larger subject and contains amendments to 8 laws. I'd like to make the most important changes. I don't want to be too much of a tabloid, but there's a little bit of a harvest taste in this whole proposal, half a year before the election, that he's still trying to clean up the fidesz moonyard that might be in the financial field. It is certain that the Hungarian Development Bank, in line with its name, will now normally be transferred to the Ministry of Development, and that the MFB will be able to participate even more widely in the management of state assets in the future, in coordinating the allocation of EU funds, and this clearly means strengthening the powers of the MFB, i.e. the allocation of the development resources in its name in accordance with the original Statute, as opposed to previous practice, when this happened mostly at the Prime Minister's Office. The Hungarian Development Bank can also contribute to the financial financing of the renovation of buildings related to key national monuments. This is a bit strange, because the fact that the Hungarian National Bank prefers to buy large-value works of art from public money is already known to the general public. How justified this is and how right it is for the National Bank to use the public money to do so, and not to say to alleviate the problems of the foreign exchange victims, I am less interested, but the question arises whether the funding of the highlighted national memorial sites, let us say, can include castle renovations, because the castles are very popular in a certain family circle. I'm not saying it's the royal family circle, because it's not, but it's the same thing. It is strange that they want to finance this public money within the limits guaranteed by such law. The Hungarian Development Bank has not been discouraged by the scandals about venture capital funds nor by these activities, the so-called Jeremie files are quite well known, with very strange distributions of money. So the Hungarian Development Bank will have an even greater role to play in supporting startup companies, this time with a budget of 50 billion and then a total of 100 billion. This is a very important activity in the field of business start-up, innovation, stimulating company innovation; really, this is contrary to the work-based society, because it is a business-based market-building idea, so I do not know how to bring this into line with the Prime Minister's rhetoric, so this is not a work-based idea, it is a business-based money distribution, which, of course, has a place in the capital market economy, but you have not liked it, so this is also an interesting innovation in the area of legislation. The state restructuring of the savings cooperatives looks like it's coming to an end. It is noted that only public bodies can acquire shares in savings of more than 15 per cent and that the MFB is entitled to 51 per cent of the votes at the assembly of the integration organisation. This whole savings cooperative transformation is the most insufferable nationalization. So, when the Prime Minister started communism here, Rákosi and the nationalization - this is particularly sensitive to me, because our family and my ancestors are also sensitive to nationalization - then the savings cooperatives, which were real cooperative property, meant the property of small owners, so impolitely, by law, to steal, nationalize, to take over the right of provision, that is simply Skandalum. [[13.00]] [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] So I also said when the Savings Cooperative Act was introduced here that it is a facial toaster, and that if you look at the rule of law, let us say, the German Chamber of Commerce takes it seriously, and on this basis you do not recommend German professional small investors to come to Hungary, because there is no way to know what their assets will be, then you can understand them. What you have done here with the savings cooperatives is therefore a complete undermining of legal certainty, a lack of legal certainty. So it is possible to say such nice goals here that he has grown so much, he has grown as much as he has grown, he would have liked to have founded a state bank, and then his growth could be demonstrated! But the loss of real property, the nationalization of real property, it transcends all ideas, all ideas of the rule of law, it's nothing more than robbery with legal instruments. So this is far from reprehensible, and once they read a history book about themselves, it will be on the darkest, most shameful pages of how they took away the real assets of small owners of the savings cooperatives, their real right to dispose of their own property. The Hungarian National Asset Manager's role will be further expanded according to the proposal, so it will act as an increasingly unavoidable, general government body in matters affecting state assets, with all kinds of broad powers. Auctions will become general through the electronic auction system operated by the National Asset Manager; after all, this is a modern system, another question of what value these auctions are about and how much publicity they can receive in advance, because the preparation time for such auctions is very important, so not everyone can hang hundreds of millions of people for an auction, especially if they do not know in advance when it will take place. The electronic auction itself is good, protectionism is not good. The sale of real estate at the National Asset Manager will also begin, and it will be possible to obtain residential property from the asset manager to the Hungarian National Asset Manager. This is a very sensitive area because it is about housing for families, so we need to be more careful and socially sensitive here. I would like to note that the Hungarian Development Bank is starting to grow into one of the most important government financial institutions, and it is clear that it plays a leading role in the savings cooperative integration system, and that the MFB is also managing an increasing range of EU funds. These include the case of Jeremie funds to help start up the already mentioned startup companies, on which I would like to comment on one of the scandalous things that has already been revealed. Several investigative journalists and newspaper articles have also dealt with the scandal that affected more than HUF 127 billion of Jeremie funds, of which HUF 87 billion came from the EU, i.e. as venture capital fund support and Hungarian state support. According to expert analyses, four to five investment funds have only invested in companies with professional, real growth potential on a market basis, but the other twenty companies that were handing out Jeremie's money didn't really do anything, or they used largely EU or government money in a shockingly bad, heavily sluggish way. Not only did they create successful companies like Prezi or LogMeIn, they didn't create them, but most of them simply grouped the money out of the investment fund, I don't want to say it was stolen, because it would be a criminal category. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] But that's what the journalists said about him. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Guard!]] [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Guard!]] That the distribution of most of Jeremie's money is highly suspected of being stolen. (Z. Carpathian Daniel: Guard!) This is a programme that the government wants to continue with billions more and involve the Hungarian Development Bank in this, which, in my view, would require greater caution; not theft, because I think it would be good to ignore. [[István Hollik intervenes. Attila Mesterházy: Are you talking about Flórian Farkas, or about Mengyi?!]] but to explore in real market ways companies that are worthy of risk capital support [[Attila Mes-terházy:...Butcher, Savannah...! The premier's bell.]] You may need to read it again. So I do not want to reduce the importance of Jeremie equity funds in Hungarian market processes; I would simply like to suggest that they support real, meaningful portfolios and manage these EU funds with a careful farmer's attitude, because EU money is also public money. I would also like to note that the Minister leading the Ministry of Development, before his appointment as Minister, allegedly asked the Prime Minister not to be under his ministry except for banks, because this is not in line with his previous experience. Now, it looks like this view has changed in three years, and the Ministry of Development has also gained experience in finance, which is very good. At the meeting of the Economic Committee, the head of the National Asset Manager reported that the deadline for the first debtors to buy back their homes, and the six years for the first parties, are now running out, so the buy-backs are up. I would very much like to believe that the government will help us in this, because if the six years are up, then the debtor loses his right to buy back, so he could be seriously disadvantaged. It is clear from the proposal that in this case, his apartment will be transferred to the Hungarian National Asset Manager of the Ministry of Development, which is not certain that he will provide housing for the former party. I therefore believe that this proposal is typically a reflection of the flaws of Fidesz power policy, and I would consider it very important that the economic and economic policy guarantees I referred to as the absence of should prevail. I would suggest that this be withdrawn and brought here to Parliament with these guarantees after recasting. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew: That's right! Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-11-15-62	Thank you very much, Congressman Józsa. I salute my fellow Members and give the floor to Mr István Hollik, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party. [[13.10]]
u2017-11-15-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, As State Secretary Major has said, the present bill seeks to amend a number of laws. If you'll excuse me. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Tell me all eight.]] I'd go by the law. However, before I begin, I cannot help but react to two remarks made by my fellow Member, Józsa. He says that the Bank of Development intends to expand its lending activities, he says that this is a business-friendly measure, which he considers to be contrary to the work-based economy that the Hungarian government intends to build and support. I would like to decipher this logical question for my fellow Member. By supporting businesses, we are also building a work-based economy, because businesses have people working for them. I think these two aren't killing each other, they're supporting each other. The other is that he suggested that the German Chamber advises German investors not to come to Hungary. I don't know what the Audi or the Mercedes or the Bosch think about it. [[Dr. Zsolt Legány: Not for anyone who's already here!]] It can be said that the largest investors in Hungary today are German companies. They are enjoying themselves here, they do not think what you are saying, which was a political opinion that there is no legal certainty in Hungary, the rules are constantly changing, and therefore the investor environment is not appropriate. [[Dr. István Józsa: See what you can find out.]] I think that we do not claim the opposite, and if you are looking at foreign capital investments, those figures and the activities of these German companies in Hungary show the opposite. [[Dr. István Józsa: Find out about small businesses.]] In order: the first part of the proposal amends the MFB Act. In our view, too, this amendment can help the MFB Group to support the European Union's and national economic development goals by allocating its own EU and other international resources. My fellow Member, Mr Witzmann, has already mentioned it, but I also consider one of the most important parts of the proposal to make the range of services and products more colourful than credit and guarantee, with the promotion of value-enhancing services, essential to successful development banking. This amendment opens the way to strengthen venture capital and capital investment activities for MFB, which, by the way, leads to support for domestic startups and domestic innovation alone. There have also been criticisms of the Jeremie Fund here, which is why I have just attended a conference where fintech innovations were the main topic and those Hungarian companies, Hungarian startups, were mainly involved in this sector. You can see that these innovative startup companies in Hungary are also particularly strong in Central and Eastern European comparison. Therefore, all means must be taken to support these innovative businesses on the capital side, so as not to prevent, say, a start-up business from getting venture capital. I think that the amendment to the MFB law can help. Once again, since Hungarian businesses are particularly good at developing platform-independent applications in the fintech sector, i.e. in terms of digitalisation of the financial sector, I think it is worth supporting this bill. The second law, which is to be amended by the proposal, is the Law on State Property. As a Christian Democrat, we can strongly support this. Article VII of the Fundamental Law Article 4 (4) of the Treaty also provides that the State and religious communities are to be separated from each other, but to cooperate for Community purposes. I believe that this provision of the Fundamental Law comes back in this amendment by allowing not only the churches but also the ecclesiastical legal entities, such as the monastic orders, to obtain free state wealth in order to carry out their duties of faith or the state tasks they carry out. We can see that these tasks have, by the way, been done conscientiously by the churches so far, whether it be education, health, social or cultural activities, in high quality. I therefore think that this work should be helped by enabling them to obtain state property and state property, which must be supported. The third and perhaps the most important proposal, which would amend the Savings Cooperatives Act; let me say this in the first place, as a number of criticisms have also been raised in this regard that it is worth considering what has been going on over the past two or three years with regard to the integration of savings cooperatives. I think we can talk about a clear development here, a good development. We can see that several member institutions and several savings cooperatives have failed in the savings cooperative system earlier. Since integration has been achieved, the savings cooperative system, this integrated system, has been stable. Ever since this happened, we haven't heard of bankruptcy. It's a good guarantee, it's become a community-based institution. Moreover, this integration was able to meet the challenge of having almost half of 2,900 branches of the savings cooperative bank before the savings cooperative, as the system of the bank in the countryside. However, if we look at the share of savings cooperatives in the whole financial sector, it was much lower. It is therefore clear that this branch network was not sustainable in the long term. This is why, as a unique development between Hungarian banks, for example, a mobile bank branch bus has been launched to take banking services to the countryside, allowing customers to use them, including ATM cash withdrawals. Moreover, savings cooperatives are constantly expanding their digital banking services in order to enable residents and businesses living in settlements to pay their cheques and pay their bills comfortably, without standing in line. So I think that this proposal, which serves to make the integration organisation of cooperative credit institutions more efficient, is not an advanced trust on the part of the legislator, since we see that the integration of the savings cooperative has so far fulfilled its expectations. So if this proposal is intended to enable SZHIS to function even more effectively, then I think that we can definitely support this. The third law you want to amend is the law on the prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. This amendment sets a completely rational objective, since it says that there are postal transactions that do not pose a risk in the application of anti-money laundering rules to postal services, which should be excluded from the scope of the anti-money laundering law in order to avoid disproportionate administrative burdens. That's what the bill does. Of course, we can support this. [[13.20]] It also provides that the State and religious communities are separated from each other, but cooperate for Community purposes. I believe that this provision of the Fundamental Law comes back in this amendment by allowing not only the churches but also the ecclesiastical legal entities, such as the monastic orders, to obtain free state wealth in order to carry out their duties of faith or the state tasks they carry out. We can see that these tasks have, by the way, been done conscientiously by the churches so far, whether it be education, health, social or cultural activities, in high quality. I therefore think that this work should be helped by enabling them to obtain state property and state property, which must be supported. The third and perhaps the most important proposal, which would amend the Savings Cooperatives Act; let me say this in the first place, as a number of criticisms have also been raised in this regard that it is worth considering what has been going on over the past two or three years with regard to the integration of savings cooperatives. I think we can talk about a clear development here, a good development. We can see that several member institutions and several savings cooperatives have failed in the savings cooperative system earlier. Since integration has been achieved, the savings cooperative system, this integrated system, has been stable. Ever since this happened, we haven't heard of bankruptcy. It's a good guarantee, it's become a community-based institution. Moreover, this integration was able to meet the challenge of having almost half of 2,900 branches of the savings cooperative bank before the savings cooperative, as the system of the bank in the countryside. However, if we look at the share of savings cooperatives in the whole financial sector, it was much lower. It is therefore clear that this branch network was not sustainable in the long term. This is why, as a unique development between Hungarian banks, for example, a mobile bank branch bus has been launched to take banking services to the countryside, allowing customers to use them, including ATM cash withdrawals. Moreover, savings cooperatives are constantly expanding their digital banking services in order to enable residents and businesses living in settlements to pay their cheques and pay their bills comfortably, without standing in line. So I think that this proposal, which serves to make the integration organisation of cooperative credit institutions more efficient, is not an advanced trust on the part of the legislator, since we see that the integration of the savings cooperative has so far fulfilled its expectations. So if this proposal is intended to enable SZHIS to function even more effectively, then I think that we can definitely support this. The third law you want to amend is the law on the prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. This amendment sets a completely rational objective, since it says that there are postal transactions that do not pose a risk in the application of anti-money laundering rules to postal services, which should be excluded from the scope of the anti-money laundering law in order to avoid disproportionate administrative burdens. That's what the bill does. Of course, we can support this.(13.20) Overall, I can therefore say that the amendments made by the proposal, all of which can be supported by the Christian Democratic People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-15-64	Thank you very much, Congressman István Hollik. I now give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2017-11-15-65	Mr President, Dear House, It is not easy for the government to put us in an easy position when one by one we are faced with either salad laws or completely incompatible proposals or packages of proposals. And indeed, as the elections approach, the attitude of the government comes to mind once again the Game of Thrones, the motto of the House of Greyjoy, as if the government were saying that we do not sow. You just want to reap, and again in many areas it seems that you want to harvest as much of the livestock produced by the Hungarian national economy as possible, and this is what you can conclude by the fact that even the situation of the Hungarian people in the greatest trouble with regard to the most insidious part of this bill is being put at risk by those who have suffered foreign currency credit. Of course, the explanation of this remains later, but we can clearly conclude that again there are well-meaning directions, ideas, as in the previous one, but these are mixed with life-threatening things. I do not wish to go through all eight legislative proposals to be amended, as many people have done this before me, and it is perfectly clear that Fidesz-KDNP is trying to push this package through. We also need to see that, even before correcting material errors, there have been statements and references at the level of the speaker when, let us say, German companies are talking about their interests in Hungary, this is what they point out to each other, that you are quite amazed at how different a picture of Hungarian economic life is on the government side and on the opposition side. And in the case of the Audi mentioned above, it can be said that, of course, it is an important Hungarian player, only when my fellow Member Hollik raises the example of Audi, he forgets to examine the fact that he spends more than 8 percent of his income on human resources, wages, etc. in the mother country of the company concerned, and in Hungary this ratio is below 3 percent. So there is also an amazing robbing mechanism on the European scene, which also gives us the need for our wage Union initiative and its philosophical basis, as it is very difficult to imagine that this looting mass of labour, which is in Hungary, will be successful, well-trained, satisfied, happy, and cannot be a goal for decades. Obviously, the goal could be Hungarian prosperity. Now, the symptoms in the opposite direction of the Hungarian prosperity are coming out of this bill, because when we see the government making new changes to the National Asset Manager, it formulates such changes, it wants to carry on precisely a crisis circulation, instead of solving this, I'll tell you how. Let us say that it would be possible for the National Asset Manager, with fair budgetary support, not to allow the commercial bank to prevent the asset manager from taking over the affected victim's apartment in very, very many cases, instead of opening a new gate before the disposal of the injured party's already taken-off apartment, so before the subsequent drop of this property, and even more vulnerable to the current tenant status of some of the families concerned. So we can say that, while the asset manager, although I do not consider it a solution, is that people are being deprived of their property ownership and then, as tenants, they can borrow it for an indefinite period of time, but it could also temporarily provide air for more Hungarians. We are receiving numerous requests and comments that clearly highlight the fact that the injured party would join, the asset manager would conclude a contract with him, but the bank is actually preventing this process with a single straight foot slide. There is no fair remedy for this right now. This government has failed to develop the possibility of an appeal and to legislate in this case. So with regard to the asset manager, the commercial bank says that they can't help the injured, they can't help it, so the word of the commercial bank is stronger than the word of the Government of Hungary at the moment, which is unsustainable. And where's the government now? The fact that you have noticed that the buy-back deadlines for the asset management scheme are running out. Here a six-year window period was defined. The government's assumption was that in the meantime some of the victims would be able to recover their solvency, to settle their financial conditions, so they could buy back their own property at a depressed price. The price is also relative here, as Hungary has also obtained this mass of real estate at a depressed price, because in many cases commercial banks have been happy if they have obtained, say, 30 percent of the amount of money they have unduly demanded, but we have to say that in these six years there has not been a massive recovery of the solvency of anyone. So these poor, broke-up people can't typically buy back their own property at systemic level. Besides, it doesn't make sense that there's a six-year-old window. So why is there a six-year chance for someone to get back what is his and what has been taken from him under controversial circumstances today? In this case, if this problem is unsolved, the government would at least be expected to push this 6 year to at least 10-14, at least creating a chance for a next cabinet to solve this problem, or helping these people to return to their original situation. However, this is not the case. The government is now faced with two phenomena. One is that these six-year window periods start to expire, and the injured cannot buy their property back. On the other hand, the government also found that it was extremely expensive to maintain this mass of real estate, since the owner is no longer the owner of the tenant, not the Hungarian injured, and the Hungarian citizen is the owner. The replacement of malfunctioned technical units, if any, may be a window replacement, and in many cases it is the responsibility of the owner. Thus, the Hungarian State is subject to increasing maintenance costs. Obviously, this is why they are pleased in many cases when the commercial bank cancels the possibility of a contract with the asset manager, as the volume of maintenance costs will not continue to increase. So what does the Government of Hungary do along these two processes? Now he's trying to take vacant properties into another kind of management, which I could accept in one case: in one case, if the vacant properties were damaged by foreign currency loans, so that they could facilitate the situation of other foreign exchange creditors by moving into them, but I still do not consider this type of disposal of the property to be a solution and acceptable at any level. What we see is that when, in the course of asset management, new rights are actually created on the basis of the paragraphs here, it is necessary to establish that the trustee uses the state assets primarily by leasing on the basis of a lease contract - that would be the asset manager's core activity, its basic function - and, secondly, to initiate the sale of property in the management of the property into free municipal property. This is already a more controversial area, since essentially anything can happen with municipal property afterwards. Knowing the state of the local government's exsanguinated financial situation and its demise, there is a great risk that large-scale real estate will be removed from this circle. Third, however, it is stated in point (c) that it may dispose of residential property. So the government opens a window under which the property was first taken from those who were in trouble without their own faults by the asset manager as a help. These poor people could have rented their own property. They would have had the opportunity to buy all this back for six years, but their solvency was not restored, since the Government of Hungary failed them. And as the 6 years go by, it becomes possible to dispose of the property mass of these people, either after they have already lost their lives, migrated abroad, empty the property, even through simple changes to the rules later, even if they still live in their own property, in their own original property. So the government is opening life-threatening gates. I warn you, you should see what is happening in the realm of reality. What's going on is that the eviction moratorium was promoted. I was happy to advance this, and I am also glad that this will last until the elections. [[13.30]] Against this background, it is stated that it may alienate residential property. So the government opens a window under which the property was first taken from those who were in trouble without their own faults by the asset manager as a help. These poor people could have rented their own property. They would have had the opportunity to buy all this back for six years, but their solvency was not restored, since the Government of Hungary failed them. And as the 6 years go by, it becomes possible to dispose of the property mass of these people, either after they have already lost their lives, migrated abroad, empty the property, even through simple changes to the rules later, even if they still live in their own property, in their own original property. So the government is opening life-threatening gates. I warn you, you should see what is happening in the realm of reality. What's going on is that the eviction moratorium was promoted. I was happy to advance this, and I am also glad that this will last until the elections. (13.30) But this does not eliminate the underlying problem. Yesterday, in Balatonfüred, an elderly woman was dropped from her property along with her relatives, and indeed, when two of the three family members were sitting there in the afternoon-night hours alone at the train station, and they did not know where to go, because they were not related within a reasonable distance, they probably did not think what the government said that they had saved the foreign exchange loaners. Therefore, my request to face the reality is that tomorrow morning, too, there will be an attempt to evacuate property during the eviction moratorium, because you have laid down exceptions under which, even after an auction, a similar act can be made. For tomorrow's time, a hero and kin of 56 will be involved. So I would like to warn you that this process cannot be dealt with by declaring a moratorium, the problem is here with us, it exists, and rather than, in terms of the asset manager, although I understand that they are under certain constraints, but they would still open life-threatening gates, I would urge you to listen to us and to solve this problem at last. I know that in the long term, this can only be achieved by HUFing loans at the rate of admission, which we would like to do, and I also know that this bill is not specifically about this, but I must stress that what is being done here in connection with the National Asset Manager will make the situation worse, and will not open any further roads to any solution. For this reason, I would like it to be the case now, before the Advent period, with proper insight, because political conflicts are thought to be very boring not only by the voters but also by the victims. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-15-66	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpat. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I will give the floor to Mr Attila Mesterházy in two minutes, and Mr Zsolt Legény, with respect, to apply for a normal speech according to the house rules.
u2017-11-15-67	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, When we are discussing such a law on state property or state companies in Parliament, the question arises immediately in an opposition representative as to what is the purpose of this change so close to the elections. One of the options is to make a place for someone. There have been rumors that Minister Seszták has chosen a place for himself at the head of the Hungarian National Asset Manager, or even at the head of the MFB, and the portfolio needs to be expanded and strengthened so that if the election is won by chance, the minister has a place to parachute - one of them. The other is what they're trying to steal again. 'Cause when it comes to wealth, when it comes to portfolio restructuring, it's bound to come up with the theft with your government, a red lamp like that flashes in your head, wondering what they're about to take away, which of your friends, which of your friends they want to play the real estates they're talking about. Actually, what István Hollik said, I thought I was doing a two-minute impression that the German-Hungarian relationship was so good that the German-Hungarian forum was not held for the first time after 1992, because the government did not think that I liked who they wanted to invite in what form. The other one, which is why I pressed the button, is the question of the savings unions. It's kind of funny that a fidesz congressman is talking about savings unions in the context of you trying to save them. The exact term is that they wanted to save themselves. Only because they had a fight with the person who would have done this, they quickly broke it, and so the project fell, instead they bought the Magyar Kereskedelmi Bank for themselves. So they're probably off the savings banks for the time being, but it's also obvious that you're motivated by getting the money, that's all. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-15-68	Thank you very much. I will give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian for two minutes.
u2017-11-15-69	Mr President, Dear House, As we have not yet had a meaningful professional debate on any agenda in the course of today, but we are now dealing with a well-prepared State Secretary, who at least understands this area and is his professional expert, I would like to point out once again that we are waiting for a concrete answer as to what, in the light of the National Asset Manager's construction, is the obstacle that would prevent those whose solvency has been restored from buying back their own property after the deadline. I know that there are a small number of these victims, unfortunately, but I would like to point out once again that we are about to have the deadlines within which these unfortunate people could buy their property back. So I wonder if there is any obstacle to the existence of a barrier that points to the fact that they cannot do so in the future. If not, then we call on the Government of Hungary to delete this deadline, or at least push it to a reasonable level, up to ten years and fourteen, so that we can achieve a meaningful shift in the direction that people who have been left out can regain their own living space, their own property, their own property, their own house, their own apartment. More than that, it is difficult to take away from a family, perhaps just family members. However, if a government has the power and the opportunity to take any steps in this direction, I would ask it to do so, and I do not ask it, we obviously call on you to do so, because there are all kinds of tools available to ensure that as many of these fellow citizens as possible, we are not giving them the lifeline, but the opportunity to recover at least what is left of them. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-15-70	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény, MSZP.
u2017-11-15-71	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. As our lead speaker has already mentioned, the title of the proposal is state property, but this is a salad with a much larger area, which is in front of us if we call it a salad. This includes amendments to eight laws. I would like to highlight a part of this, and my fellow Member, Mr Mesterházy, has already touched a little on this part in his remarks, and this is the amendment to the savings cooperatives. The state restructuring of the savings cooperatives would be completed; I think this would be the end of the state's theft. It is noted that only public bodies can acquire shares in savings of more than 15 per cent. I could say that this might even be the right approach, but overall, let's just say, the savings cooperatives that have worked well so far, regardless of the state, at least they resent the fact that the government wants to influence them to this extent. The fact that the MFB is entitled to 51 percent of the votes at the Assembly of the Integration Organisation, I think, is the most evidence that the state definitely wants to control this area as well. I think this is wrong, by the way, and we have spoken against it even when you started to take down the savings cooperatives by the State, and I thought that I should say this in the same way that we did not agree with it then, and we do not agree with it now. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity.
u2017-11-15-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any sign on the screen. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed and I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2017-11-15-73	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I am indeed in a position to participate in the formation of the laws which form the backbone of the bill before you and in its previous proposals. I was just here thinking that in the autumn of 2010, so when we started the government, perhaps the first law was the property law that we brought to this House, and I had the opportunity to present it. I'll - I know you don't like the past, but - when, as a result of the history, we were forced by the government to deal, for example, with foreign exchange credentials and security measures, I was among those who first worked out the asset manager's task, possibilities, even his existence. I remember that we started with 2,500 apartments at the time, because we thought that this was what the country fighting for existence, solvency, everyday economic surface had the opportunity to do. [[13.40]] I understand your aversions to this bill, especially with regard to the fact that I know there will be elections next spring, and my fellow opposition Members have the opportunity to start a long campaign. In fact, this is what I know of the comments here, thanking also for the half-phrases which are otherwise considered to be professionally good and supportive in these legislative proposals. Allow me to respond and respond to the concerns that many of you have mentioned. Just to stick to the ownership of the savings cooperatives: this bill, which lies before you, does not affect the part-tickets of membership, the part-ticket holders remain who they have been. As regards the voting rates, please read the draft carefully: the share of the state is falling, the share of the cooperative is increasing. Perhaps my fellow Member Hollik has already mentioned it, and I should have started by saying that the most important result of the integration of credit institutions is that, since this has been achieved, there have been no savings cooperative failures, as if you have lost sight of it. A very good guarantee community has been established, and as a result we do not need to go to the OBA, the National Deposit Insurance Fund, to find out where and where to compensate the disappointed depositors. By the way, the content of this bill - I say this primarily to my fellow Members who make professional criticism - both the integration organisation and the National Association of Savings and the Hungarian Banking Association have given their professional opinions and support. So this is not a text invented by a government or invented by a government ministry, even if it concerns eight laws, but a proposal consulted and supported by the country's most competent professional associations in these matters. Nor has it been said by my fellow Members that the integration of credit institutions that you condemn does not involve public resources, that the operation of a credit institution does not constitute a public burden or expenditure, and that the money that went there is still there and is available today. So as regards the amendments to the savings cooperatives and the possibilities for moving forward, I believe that they are good in their process, that they do not harm the interests of the members of the credit institutions, and, moreover, increase their security. There were a few words here - I referred to it in my introduction - about the asset manager. As I recall, we started with 2,500 apartments. I directly requested the fresh data, from the start of the program, until 31 October 2017, the NET received 41 572 real estate offers, and 33 735 properties have already been purchased on the basis of the declarations of intent. Of the declarations of intent received, 4009 were rejected, so a very small quantity was strongly rejected. Since the start, we have used nearly 300 billion forints to buy real estate, 297.7 billion forints; that is all for my fellow Members who are talking about the state's insensitiveness. We spent 300 billion forints just to ensure the livelihood and housing of these tens of thousands of families. Let's make a detour here, 'cause that's fresh data. The bill deals with giving you the opportunity to sell. Only real estate that is empty, for example due to death, has been sold and will simply stand empty and may indeed represent an additional operating cost, maintenance and operating costs, which can be sold by MNV. The draft law is about the transfer of the asset manager to MNV and the MNV gives it to a trustee, for example, for elderly care or other public purposes, per state asset. I am therefore saying these words so that, instead of paring politically motivated, sometimes hard and very unfair or unfair sentences, my fellow Members can see and those in the country who are listening to this debate, the debate of this proposal in Parliament, that I am convinced that the last 7 years have been very hard and, in the work of the whole country and in the work of the whole country, even such opportunities have been opened up, and that the government and its institutions have spent very substantial amounts of money on the social injustices, disadvantages, the resolution of tensions, the provision of housing for foreign exchange lenders and its resolution. So I would like to thank you for the statements of support that have been made in favour of the draft law, and I would also like to thank you for the professional comments that have been made in an otherwise politically motivated opposition environment. On the basis of the upcoming Commission debates, I would ask once again, in addition to the possible proposals for amendments, that the bill be adopted after it has been discussed. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2017-11-15-74	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, János Fónagy. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Now, Honourable Parliament, the general debate on the amendment of the laws on energy and of certain related laws will follow until the conclusion. The government referral is T/18318. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Once you've settled down, Mr. Secretary of State [[Dr. András Aradski takes his place.]] I give the floor to Mr András Aradszki, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[13.50]]
u2017-11-15-75	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before you includes amendments to the legislation on nuclear energy, district heating, electricity, gas supply, participation in the Community greenhouse gas trading system and certain related laws. The bill clarifies, complements, on the one hand, the provisions of the Nuclear Energy Act, which designate authorities acting as administrative authorities in the procedures of the National Atomic Energy Office, and, on the other hand, amends the provisions on independent experts, as well as the provisions on the official supervision of the application of nuclear power in the Hungarian Defence Office. In accordance with the Euratom Treaty, the proposed amendment complements the provisions on the approval in principle of a fuel mix other than that specified in the authorisation of the nuclear power plant. The amendment to the Law on participation in the Community greenhouse gas trading scheme is the 2016 CL on general administrative rules. It creates consistency with the provisions of law. The new legislation takes over the terminology used in Ákr. and in some cases names the State Tax and Customs Authority's request for enforcement. The amendment of the Electricity Act, the Gas Supply Act and the district heating Act is also necessary in the context of the General Administrative Regulation Act, which will enter into force on 1 January 2018. Under the new administrative statute, the current regulation at ministerial level and the provisions relating to official procedures placed there must be regulated at government level. In this respect, the law on the supply of natural gas and the empowering provision of the district heating Act are amended. The law on electricity is also amended for legal reasons. Dear Parliament, I ask that T/18318 on the amendment of energy laws and certain related laws. I'd like you to discuss bill number one. Thank you very much for your attention. [[In the notary seat Attila Móring József will be replaced by László Földi.]]
u2017-11-15-76	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás László, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-11-15-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, T/18318. Proposal for a Law on nuclear energy, district heating, electricity, gas supply, participation in the Community greenhouse gas trading system and, in the context of those laws, amendments to certain laws relating to the entry into force of the Act on General Administrative Procedure and the Law on Administrative Procedure. Among these, the CXVI of 1996 on nuclear energy is of paramount importance - and probably will require the utmost attention of this amendment. amendment of the law. On the one hand, this creates the possibility of prior principle for the nuclear power plant to use fuel bundles other than those authorised under its current permit. The authorisation shall be granted by the National Atomic Energy Agency under a special conversion procedure. The bill provides for the possibility of using different fuel bundles in the case of existing blocks. In the case of new nuclear power station blocks, such conversion shall take place only after the installation permit has been issued. The 2016 CL on the General Administrative Regulation. With the entry into force of law, in the field of atomic energy, the administrative authorities will be regulated in the nuclear law. The proposal complements the scope of the administrative authorities involved in the construction procedures of the National Atomic Energy Office and clarifies the scope of the administrative authorities acting in the event of the designation of nuclear installations and the underground part of the radioactive waste storage as a safety zone. The amendment also includes a clarification of the provisions on the official supervision of the use of nuclear energy in the Hungarian Defence Office and a supplement to the regulation on the issue of a public security authorisation. Provisions concerning the independent technical expert are also amended. On the basis of the proposed amendment, the holder of the existing nuclear power plant blocks may also use an independent expert prior to the submission of the licence application. They are included in the 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy. amendment of the law. I ask this House that T/18318. The Commission will discuss and adopt legislative proposals No 1. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-15-78	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás László. The Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party indicated that in the given 15-minute time frame two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes.
u2017-11-15-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, This amendment changes virtually all points of energy, including Paks I and Paks II, so it is understandable why Mr. Secretary of State Paks II is the first one to change. It has touched its ministerial microphone, as this amendment would affect both areas. It also touches the heating tapes, the fuel bundles. We can talk about a further development, which has been similar in the life of the nuclear power plant in the past, as we have crossed the C15 fuel bundles, which meant a 2.5 percent increase in performance for the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. This satisfies the performance requirements of 250,000 inhabitants per year. This could now be a step forward, and this law would provide an opportunity for use after the development of cassettes with increased fissionable uranium content, where the proportion of water and uranium fuel used as heating bundles would be optimised. Increases the economy of operation, maintaining the current parameters of the fuel cycle. Efficiency and less waste would come. I believe that any development that is of this nature, that less waste is produced or is more efficient, but that it is safe, must be supported, because this area also points forward. However, I would like to draw attention to the safety of the fact that all the opportunities provided by such legislation should be used only and only in the event that this fuel bundle can be safely introduced in the area of the nuclear power plant now operating. In addition, it amends the licence holder's part from the point of view of the fact that it was the holder of the site authorisation who could request an independent expert opinion and the request for authorisation could proceed to the National Atomic Energy Office, for which, in the event that the independent expert opinion was inadequate or sufficiently wide-ranging, it was able to request another independent expert opinion. At this point in the creation permit, the law does not provide for this option, so if we did not amend the law, then the licensee could not request an independent expert opinion and could not submit an application for authorisation to the OAH with an independent expert opinion in addition to the permit, so the OAH should always request an independent expert opinion. I think that there is basically no problem with duplication in this respect, because if the OAH is not satisfied with the quality of the independent expert opinion provided by the licensee, it can either ask for a new one or ask for a supplement and attach it to it. Fortunately, the National Atomic Energy Office is an independent authority and will always put the profession above politics. [[In the notary seat Mrs. Hegedűs Lorántné will be replaced by István Szávay.]] I have repeatedly stressed that the salary of the employees of the National Atomic Energy Office should be increased so that the employees do not leave, because if the workers leave there, there will be insufficient quality and quantity of professionals to carry out their official duties. The government should continue to think about how to keep professionals in this area, so that they do not find jobs elsewhere, and do not leave, because it is important for a nuclear authority that works in the nuclear field to have appropriate specialists. You don't have to be sorry about that. There are also a number of clarifications on the Community greenhouse gas trading system, district heating, electricity and gas supply. [[14.00]] In addition, those employed in the nuclear power plant who could work in the nuclear power plant are tightening up their regulation. I think there is no point in which we would not support this being tightened up, because in a nuclear power plant there is only one person who is in every way suitable for working in such a dangerous plant. On the other hand, I would like to draw your attention to one thing that we are asking to this day, and I think we are already demanding that the encrypted EPC contract be lifted. Of course, areas that would jeopardise nuclear safety could remain secret. Of course, not everyone has to see them, but regardless, I think that the international treaty should be brought here to Parliament and we should discuss it. You promised me that the encryption would be lifted. We are still looking forward to this. I have presented several times the committee initiative in which we have asked Parliamentary Members to see the entire treaty after a national security review. You did not support this and even swept it off the table at a committee meeting. I think that if this is a fully professional contract, then you have nothing to hide, especially from Members. For a Member to be able to decide, I think he has the right to see what is in these papers, and professionals have the right to see what these treaties contain. In this way, I think that many times Paks I. is making life difficult, because even Paks I. cannot see what the international treaties signed on Paks II contain. Thus, if you have already promised that these encryptions will be resolved, do so and give Members the opportunity to get to know the full treaty; because I think transparency and security are the most important issues in this area that you have broken in recent years. From now on, it's hard to stand with a whole heart next to something that I would normally be standing there with all my heart. But at every point, I want to see what these contracts contain, because I need to know that people can be reassured. After all, the support and good feeling of the Hungarian population about the safety of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant has been incredibly positive, but since you started keeping secrets, this has not been good for this statistics either. I ask the government, if you have already promised to unlock the encryption, then take the steps and immediately unlock the encryption of this contract. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2017-11-15-80	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anita Heringes. He managed to manage time by a few seconds more than half the remaining Congressman István Józsa. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-15-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to address further topics of the bill, the issue of limited CO2 emissions for greenhouse gases or climate protection, and greenhouse emissions. Technically, the amendment of the laws on district heating, electricity and gas supply is linked, citing the provision of the General Administrative Regulation Act, according to which certain regulations can be issued at ministerial level only at government level. I believe that this is a very good trend, although knowing the tendency of the Orbán government to centralise, it is, after all, fully in line with other centralisation efforts. Returning to the question of climate protection, in the context of district heating, I believe that this government is guilty of serious crimes because it has killed cogeneration in the field of district heating. This is a European process with a serious history, and it was passed on a European model at the time, the first Orbán government in 2001 that gas-driven, high-performance gas engines, which are actually ship engines that have been switched to natural gas, produce electricity and hot water for district heating at the same time; therefore, cogeneration. It is worth supporting its operation and energy production on a European model, because it reduces the sum of natural gas and the sum of fuel consumption, thus contributing to climate protection and reducing our dependence on imports. In the best years, when these gas-engine systems provided for cogeneration, about 1000 megawatts of capacity were reported. You destroyed 1000 million HUF of built-in assets on 16 March 2011, with a single legislative step. This is an unforgivable crime in the field of climate protection, and it is also unforgivable in the area of the economics of district heating. As a result, district heating was economical in more than 40 Hungarian cities, namely 42 Hungarian cities, that electricity was also produced by equipment that served district heating. So you started your blessed or unblessed energy activities by destroying them, and you have not been able to deliver on greenhouse gas emission reductions since then. The Hungarian renewable energy use is that the poor people are forced to fire more and more firewood because they cannot afford gas heating. You are promoting the reduction of gas prices, but they do not provide increased price reductions for small consumers, so they need those who are even introduced with natural gas, they are not using natural gas heating, but they are choosing cheaper wood heating. With this, the statistics have been somewhat corrected, but this is not the way to the future. I would very much like this step, such as what you have introduced here in order to harmonise with other legislation, to bring these regulations to a higher level, to be a real increase in responsibility and to introduce real modernisation. For example, the use of geothermal energy, which is linked only to this agenda in the context of greenhouse gases. But for example, the district heating supply of Budapest could be achieved by underground heat mining. This would require linking the five remote heating bases currently operating in island mode and the establishment of underground thermal mining units capable of producing electricity at the same time and serving, in a larger part, about 80% of the demand for district heating plants in proportion to performance, of course. Several rural cities are moving ahead in the use of geothermal energy, because there are also serious heating systems there, like Budapest. I can't understand why this can't be a government program. In the area of greenhouse gas emission reduction, nuclear energy must be a positive one, since nuclear energy is the large mass, i.e. a significant volume of energy generation method, which does not emit carbon dioxide in its operation. When it comes to building a lot of concrete, a lot of steel equipment and facilities, of course it is connected to CO2 emissions, but the energy production process itself can be achieved without carbon emissions, which is also a cost-effective value. [[14.10]] Because if there is a European greenhouse gas trade, this could mean real revenue. I very much hope that this revenue will be used by the government to support renewable energy production and its construction, because this is essential because of our goals and the heating problems facing the country. In fact, I read in a Hungarian study that in the summer months in Hungary the temperature increase is already 4 degrees Celsius, and the European average is 1.8 degrees Celsius. Let's say Hungary is one tenth better than this, the average annual temperature increase in Hungary is 1.7 degrees Celsius compared to 10 degrees. I believe that, since this problem cannot be solved within the domestic framework, but we need to add our share, we need to modernise these systems towards renewable energy production. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-15-82	Thank you very much, Congressman Józsa. I give the floor to the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Mr István Hollik.
u2017-11-15-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! Indeed, the point of this bill is that, on 1 January 2018, both the General Administrative Rules and the Administrative Rules Act will enter into force and, in order to avoid any confusion between the laws, it is necessary to amend the laws on energy matters. Most of these, I think, can be classified as a legislative amendment, such as the amendment of the district heating law, which currently manages certain rules at ministerial level, raises them to the level of government regulation. However, the same is true of the Gas Supply Act, where the provisions on gas relief for large family members are currently contained in the NFM Regulation on the fixing and application of sales prices for universal service on the natural gas market, a ministerial decree, which also needs to be raised to the level of government decree. The only substantive change is in the amendment of the Nuclear Power Act, as my opposition colleagues have already pointed out. The amendment provides for the possibility in principle to allow the use of heating cartridges or fuel bundles other than those authorised under the existing permit of the nuclear power plant. The authorisation shall be granted by the National Atomic Energy Agency in the process of conversion in this respect. Obviously, what we need to look at in such a situation is whether such a possible change in the fuel mix could pose any security risks. Since, unlike my father, I am not an atomic engineer, I think that we should leave this matter to the profession. I think, as Mrs Anita Heringes also referred to, the National Atomic Energy Office is an independent professional body that we can safely entrust to issue this authorisation. Therefore, KDNP will support all parts of this bill. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-15-84	Thank you, Congressman Hollik. I give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2017-11-15-85	Mr President, Dear House, With regard to the main content of the bill, I do not think there will be any serious debate between us, so in the case of a dangerous plant, all kinds of tightening-ups should be supported by a normal and otherwise responsible person in my view. Obviously, the details of this can be debated. I am very pleased that it has also been said by my pro-government fellow Member that we should leave specific questions to experts. I couldn't agree more. So God forbid that Members of Parliament decide on fuel used or different types of built-in materials. But it would be a terrible world if the Hungarian Parliament tried to pretend that even a fraction of the Members sitting here understood them in their depth and along their necessity! We all know that this is not the case, so I am missing this kind of insight from Hungarian parliamentarianism in recent years. Therefore, legislative proposals should also be drafted in such a way that these professional debates are left to experts within a wide range of professional frameworks. I myself do not argue that a public security permit issued by the police is necessary in certain cases, and I have no more serious problem with the fact that they have to engage in certain types of activities for the use of an expert organisation. Obviously, this is when good friends and entrepreneurs close to the government are at risk of setting up expert organizations and making expert statements and studies for oily money. But let us not always have bad faith, we have just warned you. If that's the case, then I'm sure it'll have its consequences. The most important thing is that professionals can really operate and make decisions on specific issues. On the other hand, as far as the legislative proposal is concerned, it seems to be another and final, but it is not such a minor area, it is not just a matter of clarifying certain rules of the Community's system of trade in greenhouse gases, but it should be pointed out here, once again, in the context of the general debate, that there is indeed a very serious room for manoeuvre here for the government, and I am very pleased that some of their ministers have already recognised this. As regards district heating, I am particularly pleased that there have been serious professional arguments and figures here, because it is a crucial key area, and at the ministerial hearing of the Committee on Enterprise Development Minister Seszták also agreed that there is a serious need for intervention here. So, if you like, we need to move in the opposite direction, like what this government has done so far, because we can be sure of two things regarding district heating. This form will stay with us for decades, that is quite certain, and what is at least so certain is that the loss of effectiveness in this system is amazing, so there is plenty to improve. At least this is how much I miss the government's so-called panel program, so an energy modernisation programme that can be used in all social groups is available. Here, too, it was recognised at ministerial level that they were actually unable to draw up such a programme. In many cases, there has been a problem that the lack of agreement of the residential community has led to a development where appropriate. Where appropriate, it is not possible to oblige a resident to take on hundreds of thousands of burdens against his will in the interest of the residential community, which he cannot or will not otherwise take on; but it is also common for someone to want to develop, but the Community decision is in the opposite direction. These dilemmas need to be resolved. I see, where appropriate, the expansion of the CSOK as one of the solutions, so if we were not only to extend the CSOK to new properties, but also, let's say, the preferential credit for the used apartments in such a way that if at least one level of energy is achieved by the modernisation that occurs, then this preferential loan should be fully and fully available. I believe that this would also bring about a noticeable market change. There is also an EU mass of resources that this government has earmarked for the energy modernisation of public institutions, but there would not have been an obstacle to opening up to the private sector, so simple Hungarian citizens can also benefit from the mass of resources on which measurable energy upgrades could be made, even in the case of the mass of privately owned properties. Finally, a sentence involving Paks II. Indeed, it is incomprehensible why certain elements of an international treaty remain secret to this day. Obviously, I do not want to know the parts and excerpts that could create a public emergency or put the nuclear power plant in an impossible position, where appropriate, expose the whole process to future sources of danger, but it is absolutely unprecedented that the circumstances of an international treaty, at any rate, are at such a level of secrecy, despite the fact that there was a government promise here that these details would be known. [[14.20]] So you are now waiting for a responsible decision from Members of Parliament, which is one of the pillars of the decision, so knowledge of the conditions is simply lacking, because it is contained in an encrypted international treaty. You can make decisions that way, but it's a typical case of signing a blank check again. So what I'm saying is I'm not shutting down from tightening up. I believe that, during today's debates, we have demonstrated that what is constructive and positive is fully open to them, but that we cannot place meaningless secrecy. I really hope it's not that this government has something to hide. This is your chance to prove that these charges are absolutely unfounded. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-15-86	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'll ask if anyone wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Congressman Nándor Gúr would like to speak for two minutes. You have the floor.
u2017-11-15-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to make three brief points when discussing energy laws. One of them concerns the issue of employment in nuclear power plants in the nuclear field, as well as in nuclear power plants. I think it is absolutely right not to employ a person who may be suspected of a deliberate crime. Of course, it doesn't matter whether it is a Hungarian employee or an employee from abroad, it can obviously be done and identified in the case of foreigners on the basis of request from criminal statistics. In my opinion, this is essential and important. The second point is that my fellow Member has explained in more detail, and I mention only one sentence: without exception, all means relating to avoiding global warming, all necessary steps must be taken from small mosaics to the energy renovation of homes, starting from the targeted use of EU funds through many other instruments. The third one, however, is the kind of sentence that you are indebted to society for many years: Paks II. I'm talking about encrypting your contract. The immediate reconstitution should be performed. They rightly demand this on the opposition side, but rightly so in the civil sector, because Minister Lazarus has promised this on several occasions. It's been years since then. Maybe Viktor Orbán doesn't want that to happen, does he? Maybe he's not the only one who doesn't want that. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-15-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a signal. The debate is closed. I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Aradski, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2017-11-15-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I must say that I am in a relatively easy and good position, because, as we have heard, both pro-government and opposition speakers, there was no substantive contradiction with the content of the bill, and we have not received any substantive criticism. In fact, I would like to thank you specifically for the words that have shown that, both with regard to the possibility of changing heating elements and with regard to the issue of employment, my fellow Members have perceived that this is all for efficiency and, on the other hand, for the conditions of safe operation. I also believe that our practice so far is that the primary aspect of the nuclear power plant's operation is its safe operation. I have to say that in this respect, Hungarian operators have tested well, not only by operators but also by regulatory authorities, by the control authorities, because at each international test, at each complex inspection which was intended to establish the safety of operations, or to question if the situation was such, the Hungarian nuclear power plant was well tested and had a very high level of safety. That is why Daniel Z. Carpathian's condition was strange that politicians should not decide what kind of heating will be there. We have never had, never willed, and in the past there has never been such a debate in Parliament. Looks like this is Jobbik's next image that they're trying to get involved in the operation of nuclear power plants here in Parliament. [[Gergely Farkas: The exact opposite! I couldn't understand!]] But I think that this will not be the case, but that the normal state that we are enjoying now remains, and the benefits of which can be reaped by the entire Hungarian population, namely: we have a well-functioning, safe nuclear power plant. As a matter of fact, the international treaties, I have written them down directly, are a solution to the secrecy of the international treaty. I understand we discussed the international treaty here in this House. We discussed it in this House. [[Anita Herring: You didn't dissolve her!]] the Hungarian-Russian interstate agreement - it is not an international treaty, honourable Member - so there is nothing to discuss about this confidentiality price [[Anita Herring: Yes, you can.]] because that treaty, both the financing and the interstate contract relating to the decision of the establishment, was discussed in public by the Parliament, the Hungarian Parliament, and everyone could express their views. I think we have nothing to be ashamed of in this regard. We can carry out this historic and historically important project, which can provide long-term carbon-free electricity to Hungarian households and the Hungarian economy, in a proper way, through preparation and until the investment. I think I fully agree with Mr Nándor Gúr's statement that the conditions of employment apply to both Hungarian and foreign workers. This is the case in the first place, because it does not talk about workers, but about those who work in its territory, so it is true for those who may not be in employment, so it must be understood in the law, in the proposal, and so it has been. [[Anita Herring: They're tightening it up now.]] We're tightening it up now. I think it's the right thing to do. It has also been said that it was quite right, but it has been so far that anyone who appeared in that area had to comply with the rules that apply to the area, whether they are workers or not. So in this respect, I believe that there is a consensus among ourselves in the content of the two-minute comment. I think, Mr House, Mr President, that there has been a positive debate on this bill, and thank you very much for the support that has been given. I will ask the Parliament to adopt the proposal after the debate is over. Thank you.
u2017-11-15-90	Thank you, Mr András Aradszki Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain laws on education, vocational training and adult education and related legislation until closure. Government referral T/18309. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Cseresnyés, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda.
u2017-11-15-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The government considers the promotion and support of a knowledge-based, competitive economy as a priority, requiring a skilled workforce capable of adapting to social change and new challenges in the labour market. For this reason, in parallel with the economic recovery measures, it has been paying particular attention to vocational training for years and has done significant and visible, effective work in the development of the vocational training system in recent years. [[14.30]] This process was part of the reform of vocational training and technical training and rethinking vocational qualifications in line with the needs of the economy, taking into account the needs of the labour market. Within the framework of new measures, the government has significantly expanded access to vocational training by introducing the free acquisition of the second vocational qualification, broadening adult education and extending the dual training system at the company's location. The results of the measures outlined are already visible today, and the number of adult learners has increased several times, who are better able to hold their place in the labour market with new professional skills and second qualifications, and the number of students studying deficiency training continues to increase. The continued growth in employment in the market sector has constantly affected demand for skilled, wide-ranging and up-to-date labour, driven by low unemployment and a reduction in labour reserves. It is therefore necessary that the potentially mobilizable workforce be given the opportunity to quickly and flexibly acquire renewable competences adapted to rapidly changing market needs. One of the tools for this is to extend the opportunities for re- and further training of workers, which can be achieved most effectively and in the shortest time within the framework of adult education outside the most flexible school system for employers' and corporate needs. Dear Parliament, In view of changing economic needs and expectations, the structure of vocational training institutions and professional qualifications has been renewed in recent years. However, because of the ongoing economic changes, we know and see that the development of a training system cannot be seen as completed, because this is the only way to ensure real results, i.e. professionals with a high level of expertise and key competences available to the national economy in a sufficient number. Therefore, in addition to continuing reforms that involve structural restructuring and renewal of vocational education and training in schools, the government also wants to focus on the development of the adult education system, including, in particular, the CVT system. Because of the constantly renewable challenges, it is therefore important that the vocational training and adult education system works in such a way as to ensure the well-trained, qualified and skilled workforce needed for the stability, growth of the Hungarian economy, as well as to give economic operators the opportunity to implement change needs directly and flexibly. In order to provide sufficient labour force to meet technological, professional and occupational challenges in the labour market, it is necessary to use vocational training capacities in a thoughtful, well-designed manner, to increase the number of vocational training participants, to strengthen dual training and to extend the possibilities of participation in publicly supported adult education. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill is its servant to strengthen the results outlined in the introduction, to implement the plans and to establish the legal basis for the path towards the goals set. The provisions of the bill affect both vocational education and training schools, business organisations and other organisations involved in or wishing to participate in vocational training, economic chambers supervising the practical training system, and adult education companies. They also cover a wider range of employers, employees and future employees, which shows a close relationship and inseparability between the economy and the training system. The aim of the bill is to ensure that the system's adaptability is enhanced and new opportunities and training paths are made available, while maintaining and remaining unchanged the proven elements of a well-functioning vocational training and adult education system, so that it can be better and more autonomously adapted to the difficult to predict changes in the economy. To this end, there is an amendment in the draft law aimed at diversifying the system of vocational education that allows for the separation and separation of so-called secondary qualifications closely linked to graduation under the current legislation from graduation by making it optional for students. The recent introduction of vocational education and training has significantly increased the proportion of vocational training content directly applicable in the labour market, so that, in addition to graduation, OKJ training can also be obtained. With this amendment, we would like to reduce the burden on students in such a way that they do not have to account at the same time for the requirements of the graduation exam and the OKJ exam. The change in the vocational school can also help to develop additional alternative learning paths adapted to the particular sector, and to transfer decisions on pupils' studies to the later stages of training. In creating a competitive economy, vocational training and the national economy are guided by common interests and their interdependence also implies a division of responsibilities based on mutual responsibility. The cross-section and meeting point of the two areas are practical training under real corporate conditions. The possibility of effective cooperation is therefore created by the dual training structure. To increase the number of enterprises and learners participating in dual vocational training and to strengthen the dual training system in secondary and tertiary education, it is also essential to continuously improve the funding conditions for practical training. By means of previous aid measures, an entity may spend up to HUF 1.2 million/learner/year on practical training, either in the form of a reduction or a recovery of the obligation to contribute to vocational training, which may encourage and encourage participation in practical training. In addition, more and more companies recognise that the company is exempted from the selection and training costs in the case of further employment of the student after the acquisition of professional qualifications, as the participants in the training are thoroughly familiar with the company and the work processes, so that in many cases the business organisations can choose their prospective employees by the end of the training period. In addition, the extent to which corporate training funding is the basis for practical dual training has a fundamental influence on the willingness to train. The more the aid follows the real cost level and the resources invested, the more it encourages companies to participate in dual training. Therefore, the amendments contained in this bill further expand the scope of the benefits available to small and medium-sized enterprises in the system of vocational training contributions. By amending the Act on Vocational Training Contributions and Support for the Development of Training in 2015, so-called other organisations, such as foundations, institutions operating as budgetary bodies, public institutions, are included in the scope of the contract. As a result, in the case of practical training under an apprenticeship, this group could apply the benefits of the VET contribution scheme in respect of training for the acquisition of professional qualifications which are important not primarily on the basis of economic and labour market but on the basis of social aspects, such as those in the defence, police and health sector. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments to the bill before you further extend the scope of the benefits that these other organisations may benefit from in the VET contribution scheme by making the cost of practical training under the cooperation agreement eligible and reclaimable in addition to the apprenticeship. At the same time, the amendment will help to facilitate the practical training of pupils in secondary education for the duration of the associated summer practice. In view of this, it is understandable that, despite the gradual decline in the number of students due to demographic trends, there have been over 50 000 and slightly increasing number of students participating in apprenticeships at the holding, which are essential for dual training, and that there is a constant search for opportunities to broaden contact with pupils. Recognizing these needs, the bill also includes the possibility of contact between the student and the entity prior to the period of actual practical training, the possibility of concluding a pre-student contract. This will give companies the opportunity to get to know students before the actual vocational training stage, to familiarise them with the future practical environment, and to make it easier for them to integrate into practical training at the workplace. [[14.40]] A further provision aimed at broadening the framework for effective practical training: extending the possibility of a student contract to students in the 11-12th grade of the vocational school. The aim is to widen the range of potential organisers of dual practical training by extending the scope of other organisations entitled to conclude the apprenticeship, as referred to above, for defence and social and pedagogical sectors. Due to the specific conditionality of those active in these areas, the range of eligible entities is limited and it is therefore appropriate to extend the possibilities in this direction. It also facilitates the extension of the range of potential participants in practical training by a proposal for a much wider range of farmers and companies, which could increase the number of craftsmen whose knowledge should be involved in practical vocational training. For this reason, a new type of training is introduced for learner training professionals in business organisations. This educational, social psychology and communication training, which is specifically linked to practical training, enables professionals without a master's exam to participate in the training of students. Dear Parliament, Based on our experience so far, we believe that closer cooperation should be established between public and non-state maintenance vocational schools, so that the use of available training capacities can be made more effective and without duplication, in order to meet the needs of the economy as fully as possible. In recent years, it has become clear that it is necessary to amend and renew the existing system, because, although it allows for a close follow-up to economic needs, it makes it difficult for vocational schools to design, develop longer-term training strategies and strengthen the initial training system. To this end, the system of VET agreements to facilitate the involvement of non-public VET capacities in the provision of public responsibilities will be renewed. The change compared to the previous structure is that VET agreements with non-state maintainers are further bound by the central manager of the VET system, the Minister responsible for VET and adult education, so that the distribution and coordination of VET capacities can be ensured in a more uniform, comprehensive and long-term manner at national level. Over the past period, the diversity, intensity and dynamism of employers' expectations in various professional forums and negotiations, the pace of economic and technological change, the emergence of the. Industry 4.0, makes it necessary for economic operators and training systems' clients to become more directly and continuously involved in the vocational training regulatory system. These needs will be met by the provisions of the bill containing the establishment of sectoral skills councils and the definition of the framework for their operation. Based on international examples, such skills councils already operate in several European countries, typically under the direction of employers' organisations. This initiative has thus been published at a pan-European level. The existing sectoral skills councils typically aim to understand, analyse and take appropriate action in the future skills needs of the sector. Their tasks include reducing skills shortages in a given sector, thereby improving productivity and strengthening the skills of the workforce within the sector. In addition, they provide support to employers to develop apprenticeship standards, manage and play a role in improving training supply, developing national occupational standards, approving apprenticeship frameworks and systems. It will be a new opportunity to truly integrate and truly integrate competences that meet the needs of the economy in the renewal of vocational training content. Dear House, Moving to another sector of vocational training, I can say that the new Adult Education Act and its implementing regulations, which came into force four years ago on 1 September 2013, have put the regulation of extra-school training on a completely new basis. All these measures, which have already entered into force in the previous government cycle, have been designed to provide better knowledge for adult learning and better adapted to the needs of the labour market. The first fine-tuning of the regulation took place in 2015, thanks to which the new system has fulfilled its expectations: it is working and it is improving. The number of authorised training institutions and their training programmes has been steadily increasing in recent years, with nearly 24 thousand valid training programmes in adult training institutions currently authorised by more than 1500. The professional content of adult education actually reflects the needs of the economy. A training certificate has become equivalent to a qualification in the school system, an increase in the labour market performance of the supported training courses, and an increase in the employment rate of those who have obtained professional qualifications in adult education. As you know, the Hungarian economy has been on a long-term growth path since the second half of 2013 and there is a steady increase in employment in the market sector. The demand for a skilled, wide-ranging and up-to-date workforce is constantly on the rise, creating challenges for employers that are increasingly difficult to meet. It is therefore absolutely necessary that the potentially mobilizable workforce be trained according to market needs. It is in the interest of companies and employers to train their employees as quickly and more flexibly as possible and to acquire an up-to-date knowledge targeted in order to enable them to carry out a specific professional activity, one of the key tools of which is the transfer and further training of the workforce. To this end, our key task is to address labour shortages through regulatory instruments, and to increase the flexibility of adult education in this respect and to facilitate the transition of its supply-driven nature to demand-driven orientation. Therefore, taking into account the needs of companies and the labour market, it is important to develop a training supply that responds to company needs in the shortest possible time and in the most flexible way. In order to achieve all these objectives, the proposed amendments to the bill concerning adult education regulations include the essential measures that will enable the training of large companies' suppliers to be carried out without authorisation and as a so-called internal training with significantly less administrative capacity, so that they can be carried out in the future in accordance with the requirements of fewer elements of the legislation. Furthermore, it is proposed that training courses of a teaching nature will be easier to achieve, since by removing the concept of other training, it will be possible to implement training with any professional or linguistic content and purpose, but not exceeding 30 hours, which is simpler, less than administrative obligations, and better suited to the training purpose and needs, and, above all, to provide public support for these trainings. Further convergence of public recognised and supported other vocational training courses will be achieved by making available, through other professional training courses other than OKJ, even through the acquisition of recognised professional qualifications by the State or the acquisition of a part or module of professional qualifications in a proven manner. This bill also includes a fair measure for adult education institutions, the adoption of which will increase the authority's discretion as regards fines in cases of more serious infringement. A change in the adult education legislation as described above could also help to improve the use of EU training aid and to strengthen the training of companies and even suppliers. [[14.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, the proposed legislative amendment will make the institutional system of vocational training and adult education more effective and improve the quality and effectiveness of training by means of new opportunities, with the help of the growing corporate circle. A more flexible and attractive training system will alleviate the problems of companies resulting from a shortage of professionals and help to increase the prestige of vocational training and skills, and more and more people will see in the training system an effective means of achieving and achieving a meaningful and effective career. I therefore ask the Parliament with all due respect to discuss the bill submitted by the government, and then, when necessary, to accept it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Michael Witzmann applauds.]]
u2017-11-15-92	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Cseresnyés. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Mihály Witzmann, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-11-15-93	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The dynamically developing Hungarian economy, as well as rapid economic and technological progress, are driving the VET system into continuous change and development. We all know that the developing Hungarian economy is increasingly in need of skilled labour, and there are clear signs of this in the Somogy 4 constituency, which I represent: while a few years ago we talked about unemployment in the region, we have to talk more about economic development, especially in the Balaton environment, the shortage of labour and the importance of training so-called deficit professions. This is why it is extremely important for me that the vocational training system works in such a way as to ensure the well-trained workforce needed for the growth of the Hungarian economy, the human resources with the right qualifications and skills, and also to give economic operators the opportunity to implement change needs directly and flexibly. Back to my constituency, in my constituency of Somogy 4, there are two vocational training centers, one of which is the Siófok Vocational Training Centre and the other is the Kaposvári Vocational Training Centre, and I regularly try to coordinate with teachers and leaders at vocational training centres, as well as with the Director-General of Vocational Training Centres. In fact, as a result of these regular discussions, it is clear and clear that, in order to have a sufficient number of staff able to meet technological, professional and occupational challenges in the labour market, there is a need to make use of vocational training capacities in a well-designed way, to increase the number of participants in vocational training and to further strengthen and support the dual training mentioned by the Secretary of State in our country. The bill submitted by the Ministry of National Economy is, in fact, a response to the needs of this constantly changing, changing vocational training system, I think. Accordingly, the amending proposal before us contains amendments which aim, in particular, to enable the flexibility of the vocational training system, the broadening of the possibilities for practical training, and the direct, faster delivery of changing or new training needs from economic operators. In view of the changing economic needs and expectations, the structure of vocational training institutions and professional qualifications in Hungary has been renewed in recent years. As a result of the changes, there has been a significant increase in the proportion of vocational training content directly applicable in the labour market in vocational schools, but it is also apparent that the positive effects are different in different sectors. In view of this, it is appropriate to make the proposal a further option to increase the flexibility of vocational education and training and to make some of the content of vocational training optional. It is therefore appropriate, under the current rules, to separate, separate and make a student freely available to secondary vocational training linked to graduation, i.e. to decide in which direction the student should proceed. After the introduction of the provision, the student may also decide to take part in training to strengthen the professional content of other subjects provided by the training school instead of the content of the secondary training course or to develop other competences or to increase practical knowledge. In addition, the proposal aims to help the economy to become involved in the development of vocational training in a new way, in defining and shaping the training needs of individual sectors of the economy, by setting up a new form of stakeholder representation, sectoral skills councils. Following the already well-functioning example of sectoral skills councils in many Member States of the European Union, they can have a direct influence on the monitoring and modification of the professional content of vocational training and training in adult education, as well as on the drafting of opinions, through their own representatives from the relevant economic sector. In addition, the system of VET agreements to facilitate the involvement of non-state VET capacities in public responsibilities will be renewed, as well as the learning contract option extended to the 11th and 12th grades of the VET school, in order to further strengthen the dual VET system effectively. The extension of the scope of other bodies and organisations authorised to conclude the apprenticeships will primarily serve the expansion and broadening of the range of organisers of practical training in the case of defence and social and pedagogical sectors. As a further change, it appears in the proposal that VET agreements with non-state maintainers will be concluded by the central manager of the VET system, the Minister for VET and Adult Education, so that, in fact, the distribution and coordination of VET capacities can be ensured more consistently and comprehensively at national level. LXXVII of 2013 on adult education The primary objective of the amendment to the Act is to address labour shortages through regulatory means and to make adult training more flexible for this purpose. The proposal therefore provides for the possibility for the training of suppliers of large companies to be carried out as internal training, so that from now on these training courses can be carried out without authorisation, subject to compliance with only a few elements of the legislative regime. It is also known that, in the course of the amendment of the VET Act in 2015, so-called other organisations entitled to conclude an apprenticeship contract under the VET Act were included in the scope of the participants' contributions and, consequently, this group could enforce the system of benefits provided by the VET Contribution Scheme in the case of practical training under the apprenticeship. Within the framework of this proposal, other organisations will continue to benefit from the VET contribution scheme by providing that, in addition to the apprenticeship, the cost of practical training under the cooperation agreement will be eligible or reclaimed from the VET contribution. The amendment thus implemented will help to facilitate the practical training of pupils in secondary education for the duration of the associated summer practice. Finally, an important regulatory objective is the above mentioned 2013 LXXVII on adult education. The fact that support for the adult learning activities of vocational training centres is excluded from the scope of budgetary support in order to be treated as normative support is also a step-by-step correction of the sanctioning system of the Act. In view of the above, I respectfully ask my fellow Members to support the bill tabled by the Ministry of National Economy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Peter Cherry claps.]]
u2017-11-15-94	Thank you very much, Congressman Mihály Witzmann. I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-11-15-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Before we go into the trial of the bill, you have to say three sentences related to the law that last eight years, the last eight years. One is, if I want to simplify it very much, it is about destruction, Mr. Secretary of State, because you know very well that what you have done in terms of vocational training and adult education - but I will also give concrete, tangible examples of adult education, the termination of networks, much more. With regard to centralisation, everything that works better and more effectively on the ground is also centralised and, in terms of substantive discussions, I could rightly say that the lack of meaningful coordination characterizes your activities in terms of both professional and representative interests. With regard to the entry into force of this draft law, it is said that they will follow a staircase: on 1 January 2018, on the summer of 2018, on the 1st of the seventh month and on 1 January 2019 they intend to bring into force certain sections of the draft law. [[15.00]] They aim to say that improving the flexibility of vocational training is a very important thing. This occurred to me immediately when they talked about flexibility and security in the labour code, and then flexibility was achieved in the best way for employers, and the part of security with regard to workers was lost, and it was bound to the wall. With regard to the development of the flexibility of vocational training, I would also like to raise the issue of security, which concerns a multitude of subjects involved in vocational training, so this should also be borne in mind. Obviously, all the elements and roles that are important for the functioning of the economy are that the needs of the economy can be met as much as possible, so that the economic needs can be met in a good sense as soon as possible with those of the workers that show up. But I would also like to add right now that, of course, it is not just for the needs of the trial. Training, state-based training, should never be a matter of keeping in mind the desire to meet the needs of the moment or the needs that arise regardless of desire. The training also limits quality of life in the long term, and even if it does not limit it, it may be better to give people the opportunity to live their daily lives with a moving, taping and developing quality of life. This bill is also about the importance of opportunities for practical training, and I do not dispute that. I do not dispute or even consider the importance and importance of practical training in real labour market conditions to be necessary, but I would like to add immediately that it is very difficult to achieve a specific level of knowledge without knowledge of public knowledge. It is very difficult to become a good professional without learning physics, mathematics, or any other subject of public knowledge that the market accepts with a good heart - it is very difficult. For this very reason, I would like to emphasise the importance of public knowledge subjects here as well. But I would also like to stress that changes should also be made to initial education, because, despite your attempts to take various measures in terms of vocational training and adult training, if they are to be destroyed again in terms of initial education - PISA results support what I am saying - it is obvious that they will not be able to achieve results in terms of vocational training. There is little need to be cramped in these five months because of this, but thinking of the next period, when they can help to develop this work, it will be worth thinking together. [[To Peter Cseresnyés:]] Yes, Mr Secretary, I welcome the smile of food on your face, but I would like to say to you: yes, the creation of a way of cooperation between Parliament's walls and society is an essential process. The issue of duality: strengthening duality, strengthening workplace training. Look, we have seven and a half years behind us from your government, and we find that there have been such momentary flares on the part of the Fidesz government, but no tangible results have actually been made. They still want to take certain measures. I'll give you an example: this is how you want to maximize the number of people who can be taught in a given practical place. There is a practical reason for this, there may be a practical reason for this, but the main point is not that 15 or 50 students, students and students can be educated at a given vocational school, but that these vocational training places, in all respects, comply with the conditions that must be met with the demands of the labour market. It is not a formal question of compliance that needs to be ensured, but in substance and in a tangible way. Sectoral skills advice is being put in place to strengthen the participation of economic operators in the acquisition of training content. I have no problem with such advice or organisations being called to life, but I would like to say in any case that the definition of participation in the content of the training or the contradictions in the operation of the training or the modification of the content of the training is only a necessary condition, but its tangible implementation is also essential. It is clear that ensuring a greater role for sector actors and actors can, in some sense, help to better meet the needs of the labour market. The maximum basis for the needs is a correct effort, the way in which the skills needed in the sectors are transferred, and many others are also, in my view, supportive. However, coordination here should be strengthened, let us say, in the context of training within the framework of companies and within the framework of the system of school education. Once again, I would like to emphasise that the presentation of labour market needs in vocational training is an important thing, but in my view it must go beyond that, so not only the presentation of labour market needs, but also the expected future presentation of labour market needs must be primarily in mind, and in the sense that, since it is 2017, it may not be possible to argue that a wider knowledge is needed to prosper, to create a better existence for everyone, and this, let us say, a 2-3 day knowledge acquisition, called 20-30 hours training, may not necessarily be sufficient. When I said between my first sentences that they did their work without any meaningful discussion, this was typical of the past 7-8 years, that is true of many things. Now, in this case, I can say that the consultations... - Mrs.Gábor Pölöskei with the advocacy and professional leaders, on certain surfaces I can even say that she has met, but this cannot be called a meaningful consultation. Communication is not a negotiation. So the fact that you want to do something, think about the world, and want to do something about it does not mean that it is consistent with everyone's opinion, and that not knowing the opinions of others means that you do not want to agree, that you do not want to participate in any process that serves to build the process. What about today if we look into it a little bit? Mr Secretary, whatever you say, the number of students in vocational training is constantly decreasing. The number of people who are unable to appear on the Hungarian labour market is increasing in the deficit sector or in the deficit sector, because they are not. Think of it as a fitting for construction: from carpenters... - but not from the top, from masons to concrete mechanics to carpenters, to reach the top of the house. Is there a demand or a supply page today? It's obviously on the demand side and not on the supply side. They have not been able to move forward in this regard in the last 7 to 8 years. They set up a vocational school system, didn't even think about whether it was worth thinking about the tech system. What I said: the existence of a wider knowledge always provides a way and opportunity for better prosperity. [[15.10]] Since 2010, the government has been unable to create an action-driven adult education - I use the words you have said. Centralisation is in place; centralisation is already an example through the registration of partial qualifications in the law. Look, the lack of knowledge, the lack of knowledge, restricts the presence on the labour market. Yes, it limits it because it only provides a temporary way and opportunity to perform tasks. I do not want to make negative wordings, but today, in 2017, we agree, Mr Secretary of State, that it is not a need for apprentice training, and it is not for apprentices to be able to take up and fill temporary employment for a short period of time, and then the new apprentices can come, and a series of exchanges can be made in this respect. I think, stressing once again, that extending initial training before vocational training would be an important thing. I told you, the PISA results confirm that. By the way, the Poles have done what I just said in terms of basic training, and interestingly, PISA results also provide a tangiblely better confirmation. They often refer to the German dual training system, and that Hungarian processes should also go in this direction. Yes, there is just one huge difference, and that is that, in a German dual system, the difference between the knowledge acquired before vocational training, vocational training, the acquisition of skills and the acquisition of qualifications is enormous, and I would like to indicate, Mr Secretary of State, not for our benefit, no. Two more thoughts at the end. In terms of adult education, it is not good to try to strengthen the mass-likeness of the training trained, combined with maximum training time of less than 30 hours. And I also do not think that it is good that the module final exam for non-OKJ courses should be included in the complex professional exam for vocational training. In this sense, one should not exist, because if they want to soften in one direction with regard to 30-hour training, then the requirements of OKJ training in the other direction should be taken into account. What is still a huge problem in terms of adult education: for decades, you have crushed well-functioning systems. Think about the system of Rkks, the system of regional conversion centres; think about the destruction of this network of institutions, and then last summer, if I remember correctly, even the Türr István Training and Research Institute was liquidated. So, one word as a hundred: destruction, centralization, processes without meaningful reconciliation are taking place with your leadership. I don't think that's appropriate. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2017-11-15-96	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. I now give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-11-15-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, You feel that there is a problem, and you are responding to this problem in this amendment of the law, but you have misinterpreted it here too. So how the labour shortage in Hungary could have developed, you explain it quite differently than we do. You say that this huge economic recovery is the reason for all of this, but we say that the main reason behind this is that 600-700-800 thousand, most young, otherwise well-trained, Agile compatriots have left Hungary because they have not found a proper outlook for life and a perspective in this country. You try to put out this fire with this amendment of the law, there are times when, by the way, you pour oil on this fire even in the big vaccination attempt. First of all, to make things a little happier, I would like to mention some positive things that you might even agree with. Such would be, for example, the separation of secondary vocational training, the provision of more flexible learning paths in vocational schools for students, and the reduction of their burden at maturity. It is also acceptable when talking about the need for a more uniform coordination of vocational training capacities, distribution within the country and, in the case of shortages, a way to start classes below the minimum number. It can also be agreed that this practical training will take place in real company training and in an environment, broadening it, giving as many ways and opportunities as possible. It is also eligible when it is suggested that the need for professionals with up-to-date knowledge needs to be met in Hungary, and the solution is seen, among other things, by extending the possibilities for retraining and further training, and by supporting adult training here, by allowing internal training to be broadened. This is all eligible, but it is also terrible to read words and sentences, for example, in the general justification, where you say that they adapt the range of available knowledge to the needs of the economy. That's okay at first reading, but if we think about this a little bit further, you'll see, Mr Secretary, how we feel about this. Here is also the question of the establishment of sectoral skills councils. It is stated that economic operators should be given direct intervention in shaping training content. Well, we have a few words for that, because we believe that neither the long-term interests of the child nor of society, but rather the short-term benefits of economic interest groups, which is what they serve. We have to ask ourselves, do you want to train human beings or droids, biorobots attached to a conveyor belt? Here is the legitimate question: has human capital been better suited to work with all the reforms that you have introduced? And to add, the fact that in Hungary such a situation has developed in the field of vocational training is not the sin of the last seven and a half years alone, we have seen that there have been problems long before. The question should be asked whether the competitiveness of the trained workforce has improved through so-called reforms. Let's see what the starting point is. Take, let's say, the latest PISA survey in 2015, the international competence survey, which clearly showed that students in Hungary have split into a narrow elite and a much larger crowd of 15-year-old students. There are huge problems with text understanding, applied mathematical knowledge or science, as curriculum knowledge and curriculum content cannot really be applied in practice by these students, and we are gradually lagging behind OECD states. What did you have to say about that? Practical lessons have been increased and public knowledge classes have been brutally reduced and certain subjects have been removed. There must be no misunderstanding, there is subject integration, when it is a very good thing, it must be used, it should be included in the toolbox of modern pedagogy, but the fact that you have introduced the subject called science, which is a subject that combines science subjects, can even be understood by it, but the form in which it took place is that there was no textbook, that there was not an appropriately trained teaching staff, but this is much more problematic. What was the result of all this? What do you have in mind? The fact that they preferred an early election is forced on students and their parents, early selection, selection. The difficulty of switching is a very serious problem, Mr. Secretary. [[15.20]] In many cases, these young people are put on a one-way street with the non-comparable school system or the often very, very difficult school system they are building. The problem was given. Specialized students were not or in many cases were not motivated. We need to ask why this could happen. There are very, very many reasons for this. The family environment, the sociocultural environment from which students usually come into this type of school, has brought with it that they have no basic competences, in many cases neither learning nor social competences. Seeing this, educators, who are not common-use ubermensches, are not some kind of supermen, who have very complex social problems outside of them, and who have all kinds of tools twisted out of their hands, can solve them, give them up. In many cases, they gave up on these students who felt that way and developed a natural resistance to school, training. In a way, it has become natural for them to be in the back bench, and this has brought up an enormous number of educational problems. What was your answer? If the student hates school, let's shorten it to him, let's say, condemn him to stupidity, and destroy his long-term employment opportunities. The other answer was related to the raise, with which it can also be agreed in some aspects that the German dual model will be adapted in Hungary and - but this cannot be agreed - copied in a servile manner. However, the Hungarian situation is quite different, and the situation in Germany is quite different from that outlined by my fellow Member. But it's all symptomatic. There is no answer to how to raise this broken, fallen social mass, on which in Hungary - because the practice and reality show this - vocational training was intended to be based, and vocational training was based in Hungary. The answer for you was that there were fewer schools. We say, however, that we need a school where learning is not a nuisance, the school itself is not a nuisance, but it is an opportunity for ascension. The problem is that three years of training and extracurricular practice would imply a high level of learning skills from these students, who are in many cases lacking these learning and social competences. It is a mistake for you to give pedagogy much less space in your reforms than you should have. You say that the aim of vocational training is to train these droids and biorobots for the labour market. We say that there should be training of professionals, and that there should be emphasis on the, where education has a huge role to play, because that is the long-term social interest. You say that the opportunities for school education must be reduced both in time and in duration. I can see that Mr Secretary of State is busy taking notes and shaking his head, but that is exactly what the reforms that have been made have led him to do. So they reduced the opportunities for school education. We say that companies should be asked if they have the competence to take these student masses responsibly. Are there enough professionals there who can relate to these students in a responsible manner? Here we are looking at a proposal for a solution to the training of practical instructors in the Chamber; we are eager to see what will come out of it. The reality is that in production plants, they only deal with the student who has talent, who is motivated, who is diligent, who wants to cooperate. But we're going to ask what's going on with students who aren't like that. You're gonna leave them on the side of the road? Feel free to ask a business secretary what kind of workforce you need. Obviously, the first priority is to have the employee in possession of professional competences. However, it is right behind this that it would list a great deal of human value, what competences an ideal worker should have. Here I would quote László Szabó, director of the Piarista Training School in Göd, who once wrote that vocational training cannot be unilaterally subordinated to the needs of the economy for any reason. Now, Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry, but what we see is that this is happening. The large corporate sector has captured the Hungarian state in this respect, also, by a kind of market fundamentalist, neoliberal principles. We can also say that resources are being diverted from the common good, either by plutocrat or by kleptocrat tendencies. Thus, Bourdieu's finding that the school not only raises students, but also strengthens the inequality that they bring from the family, and that creating a chance in this form will be just a myth. Mobility channels in Hungary have been clogged; I would like to refer to Eurofound investigations, Mr Secretary of State, and this is supported. Our next question is how we can achieve the sublime goal and, at least, I think, the goal supported by all of us in theory is to move further and further on in the pyramid of the hierarchical world economy in terms of added value. No way, we're stuck at the bottom of the global production chain, value chains, in the middle of that V-word. I would like to quote KSH surveys, Mr Secretary of State: 54 percent of Hungarian workers work in physical work. Based on the competitiveness surveys of the World Economic Forum, Hungary is ranked 113th of the 138 states under examination, and there is no really positive shift in this respect. So there will be no knowledge-based economy, no innovative jobs, and that is what this country, this national economy, really needs. Our school system is extremely selective. You can easily compare the domestic example with the Finnish example. How do we deal with this selective school system, the challenge of robotisation and digitalization, and in a few years, Mr. Secretary, can algorithms make the work of 500 thousand people in Hungary redundant, so 12 percent of workers? What do we see? What we see is that you are offering a solution that the state is handing over competences to economic operators. On the other hand, we would say that trade unions should play a more prominent role, for example, because if we look at these sectoral skills councils, there will be a total of 7-19 people representing the protection of workers' interests. It's nonsense and we think it's unacceptable. How was some HUF 500 billion of the National Employment Fund used? On an annual basis, around HUF 300 billion went to public work, which in many cases had an even worse reintegration effect than black labour, whereas on average, adult education was spent on an annual average, Mr. Secretary of State, only HUF 40 billion. Public employees who participate in vocational training in Hungary are also terrified, either as trainers or as teachers. Their situation should also be resolved. And if there are well-paid, satisfied teachers and educators in these schools, I think that this course will also be attractive for professionals to go there as instructors, better education, and perhaps not only 20 percent of parents will give training to vocational schools, or, as you have baptized them, to vocational schools, but this number will increase if possible, but only if these mobility channels are provided to the children who have come here. Thank you.
u2017-11-15-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy for two minutes, MSZP.
u2017-11-15-99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It has already been said, both my speakers, Nándor Gúr and my better fellow Members, have spoken about it, but it is important to emphasise once again that the direction they want to take vocational training is certainly not the direction for the future. Perhaps my fellow Member from Jobbik has just said that they want to turn the workforce into such modern biorobots, while the world is moving in the direction of training an adaptable workforce. However, this must require not only professional objects, but also other objects, not to mention information technology or language skills, as it is now very difficult to take a job without a specific employee speaking a language. [[15.30]] In English, to continue to dumben the curriculum from this point of view, and to focus only on what kind of workforce the economic sector is looking for at a given moment, I think it can only be a short-term solution, and in the long term it will certainly not be in the best interest of the country. And from the competitiveness indicators, the unprepared workforce is the number one competitive disadvantage, if you can put it this way, for Hungary. So this should be taken a little more seriously than how many welders each company is looking for in an ad hoc way. There is much longer-term thinking to be done, and I do not see the Chamber cooperation in this to produce the right results and efficiency. So it is necessary to invest time and energy in Hungarian, as well as in public knowledge, so that there is a workforce in Hungary that can adapt and participate in lifelong learning. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-15-100	Thank you, Congressman Mesterházy. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr for a proper speech.
u2017-11-15-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My first sentence would be to ask, with great respect, Mr Secretary of State to argue, to speak, to take a position, not to give a summary at the end, because I do not see any point in doing so. Or if you do, then we must acknowledge that you do not really want to know what opinions are being expressed on the opposition side, you do not want to accept them, you may not even hear them. If there's a way and an opportunity, he's trying to touch the questions we're pushing. Now I'm only going to address four or five issues here. On the part of the government, a pro-government politician here today, within the walls of this House, there are sentences about a huge economic recovery. I'd just like to say three little things in context. One is that if the European Union did not have the resources to be integrated into the functioning of the economy, GDP would not be plus, but minus, and growth would not be an increase, but a decrease. If there were to be a huge economic recovery, this would also have to be reflected in the economic recovery of those who are calling for life, as regards workers, in such a way that, let us say, more than half of the physical workers employed in Hungary fall into this category, and the incomes of the people working in the physical population should have described a trend for minimum wagers that has not been decreasing for five years. Or, in the last seven and a half years, this is not the order of 600,000 emigrations on the labour market among active people, in particular, I would add, the young and active in the most active circle. We can say that three quarters of the workers from the age of 18 to the age of 45 are those who have left the country from this crowd. They make this three-quarters share. It is worth bearing in mind the processes in the industry, the processes in the construction sector, the time-to-time defensive and the declines in the processes associated with the enormous economic recovery you have mentioned. The other thing I would like to say is, again, not profoundly, but with just a few thoughts: lack of skills. There were not only initiatives and experiments before your governance, but also tangible support schemes, which were developed precisely to ensure that, not only in areas where there are gaps, there are certain support conditionalities, but also in the training system, not only after the acquisition of the profession. We set up scholarship schemes that, in practice, could have meant the achievement of a net minimum wage of money for those who took part in training in this profession and showed good, very good performance and educational results. We should have moved on from this, which should have been built further over the last seven and a half years, so that it does not develop, which is much worse than what was eight years ago, so that these people, in particular, do not leave the country. Unfortunately, it is clear that, let us say, the range of qualified welders is absolutely included in this thing, but there are many other professions within the construction industry. I told you the example, right, from the building of the house to the mason, the concrete mechanic to the carpenter, but there are also many electricians, central heating mechanics, plumbers and even professions that are not positive for the last 7.5-8 years, but negative trends and negative trends that are confirmed. In this respect, you did not create extra items, you did not do positive things, but you always want to take measures like this, which can also be read in the context of this draft law, which may formally appear to be, and I do not even say that it seems, as if it would lead to positive results. And from the other side, the story doesn't really have a tangible conception. This includes what I have said, and other fellow Members have confirmed, adding that they have made mistakes in relation to initial training in the last 7.5 to 8 years, which also involves a certain impossibility of vocational training. I do not want to touch on the question of counting, writing, reading, reading, reading, but I would like to say in any case that if the satisfaction of these marginal conditions cannot be achieved, then obviously those entering the system of vocational training, or those wanting to enter it, or those waiting for them, can only look at each other with constant disappointment. And the other part of the story is, like I said, it's 2017. In 2017, imagine what is in the passage of this bill, say, within the framework of a training period of a maximum of 30 hours within the adult education system - I would not call it training, forgive me, Mr State Secretary - we call into existence specific features that give anyone in the labour market a chance to find their location, and I consider this cynical. It is simply because, without broadening skills, as my fellow Member Mr Attila Mesterházy said earlier, it is also very difficult to imagine a position in the labour market, which has a wide range of expectations today. The state should, in the social sense, care for those who, say, need to back off in terms of work. Nor are they significant in this respect because they spend more on themselves than they do on social costs. This is reflected in the proportionality of the 2010 and 2016 budgets in this respect. But that would be expected of you. The employer, the employer, is less likely to expect this, because an employer does not function as a social welfare institution, but wants to generate profit. An employer, an employer who wants to make a profit, obviously strives to be employees who create, produce, at least, the financial content that can be regarded as their own wage costs. [[15.40]] The money given to them and the associated tax and tax charges will be paid. Again, in this constellation, you have moved in a negative direction, because, as an example of people with lower salaries, contributions and taxes have been increased, and in 2010 the amount of contributions on the minimum wage of 60 200 HUF net minimum wage: 32 thousand HUF total, which the employer and employee had to pay. You also know that today the net minimum wage of 84,000 forints, the value of which - you can count back - is 67 thousand forints, 73,000 forints forints for contributions and tax charges for a given month. 41,000 forints more than in 2010. You know these connections. All I wanted to say to you from this is that neither do they signify that for those who need to go back in the world of work, they would strengthen the social security system, nor would they indicate that, where there is less income, there is no salary available and that there is no additional tax burden. They don't make sure that they give up so that these money can get paid, they collect it, and they collect it between friends and God knows who they scatter it among. But I'm just saying this example because it would be your job to operate socially sensitively on the one hand, and on the other hand to create processes that don't lay hands on top of it, but on the other hand, where people are more in need. With regard to the broadening of the range of knowledge holders, I think that by increasing these people, they also have a bad career when they provide people with unreal, unsound, non-skill-enhancing opportunities for students, students, because that gives them the background to moving in the future, yes, relatively flexible, tailored to the needs and security of future workers on the labour market. Here's the example. I'll take an example of the adult education system. It's that if I say weld, it's saying something to everyone, but if I say, within that, that welding and I say that it's a qualified welder, it's possible in many ways, then I'm talking about huge differences. This means that, in fact, in terms of compliance with sub-areas, if we just focus on this, we are creating a certain vulnerability. So if a person is good and needs an employer to perform a particular job during a given period, but if there is a change in the profession in a qualitative sense, he cannot comply with the problem. It's the same thing as, say, learning the top-of-the-shoe profession. Then, if robotisation, which has also been said for the coming period, is fulfilled by making human labor, living labour, less necessary, then the shoe-top maker can't actually do a real shoework because it can't comply with a shoe-sleeping problem. On a periodic basis, in relation to a particular sub-area, the expectations can be met and met, but in the longer term, in a developing world, I think it is necessary to provide as much knowledge as possible. On the subject of lifelong learning, lifelong learning, lifelong learning, and lifelong learning, I would, however, like to confirm that this is not served by courses placed in 30-hour quotes, but is not confirmed by them. My final thought can be no different to that of my fellow Member. At a time when you are using hundreds of billions of forints and making use of them, it is a sign of the National Employment Fund that entered after the former labour market fund; you know, when you joined the national community, you meant that you had 10 billion forints less money than you had before, so you even defaced the use of the word "national" too. Now, not 60 percent of that money, but much more of that money is being used - specifically for Start Work Programmes - but I dare even say that it is not for the benefit of the people, because it is not for their help to the primary labour market, while providing a fraction of the funds for active employment policy instruments, while the financial resources related to training are minimal within or in combination. And if they have turned to this, they have been able to draw clouds and sunglasses with a multitude of people, because it is necessary to meet the needs of the labour market. These should be resolved, and then in the last sentence I say that when they talk about vocational and adult education, the interests of the future must always be taken into account, not only in mae, but in the interests of the future, the foreseeable future. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-11-15-102	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman István Józsa, MSZP.
u2017-11-15-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to continue with the sentence that my fellow Member Nándor Gúr said that we should be thinking about the foreseeable future. So if the government has a responsibility to the private sector somewhere, so what the private sector can't do, but the government has an obligation to do it, that's just pre-thinking. Therefore, to provide a certain financial background for labour market research, trend research, changes, and the government to be able to prepare itself for the preparation of the training of lack professions or future shortages professions, whether with regulators or grants. For most companies, especially the most vulnerable domestic SMEs, whose basic advantage is that they are able to adapt flexibly to market opportunities, this is precisely the biggest problem that if they see a market gap, they start a business and try to enter into a contract. In fact, they always want to hire the professional staff for the job. What are they doing? They post an ad and wait for good luck. Because of their situation, it is difficult for them to think ahead for several years, to provide for their own labour supply. Now, this is the area in which the government could help Hungarian SMEs a lot through its opportunities, preparedness and foresight, because there are technical ways to explore the composition of the various professions at the moment, and also - this is a little bit more difficult - what changes are expected. Of course, there is a basis for everything, which is not the direct task of the secretary of state present, but he cannot manage without it to have the basic competences of the people who are then admitted to vocational training. So it would be possible to help young people to have an idea of the content of certain professions at an early age in primary school. [[15.50]] So what the Secretary of State is doing now, for example, to push his smartphone, can be done by a two-year-old child, and he is enjoying it. It is possible to build a competitive sector in the digital sector: to choose talent at a young age, who are the most skilled, to make competitions, to form role models by competitions, not only for professional athletes to receive tax benefits, but also for a more serious gift than a book, perhaps a technical article or smartphone, so that not only natural processes are used to develop these talents, but also for the government to help with conscious behaviour and conscious activity. The market, the media, has a movement of their own. However, let us note that these market movements revolve so around money that they are essentially about the extra money, not in the field of production, primary value creation, but in order to obtain the already produced, earned and, in a sense, above life support. On the other hand, I think it is the government's responsibility that, if you are serious about what you are saying, as the Secretary of State has said, that you want a knowledge-based society, a knowledge-based future, you should also do so - develop a system of talent management. Young people who show interest, skill and talent for something and do not just work towards football, so that something can come up with terrible money, but in which to play a big role, for example in digital applications, can also be helped at an appropriate level. So one of the things that I would like to propose to the government in time, or what the future requires, and the other is the proper level of treatment of spatial, training vertics, and the consensualization of each other. In this regard, I think that this government recovery is completely orthopedic, which is now that there is an EMMI gigaministerium, so there is no Ministry of Education, and then vocational training belongs to a whole other area, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and is even released from there into gebin, the care of the MKIK and the regional chambers. So, I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary, it's built into the system that you can't function properly. I understand that you are approaching this with good intentions and are trying to do the best possible within your own competence, but the whole structure is against the success of vocational training and adult training. Therefore, in order for adult education to involve appropriate professionals, appropriate engineers, technical staff, they should be trained in higher education and brought to an appropriate, high professional level. But when the secretary of state who got out of higher education, who, by the way, I think is an excellent scientist, but through government misery, he says to the University of Technology that anyone who can't find the sideline here shouldn't come to the University of Arts to teach him, so that's the betrayer of his own profession. Yes, the professor of art should earn what is needed for his existential level of social integration. Don't be forced to collect your earnings from all kinds of secondary jobs, as the Secretary of State has suggested. I would like to quote Bismarck as the final thought that anyone who is responsible for the future of his country will sacrifice to education, sacrifice to training, and do so in a broader education and training policy - that is what I propose to you, with the need for good governance. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-15-104	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr. Nándor Gúr for two minutes. Mr. Messenger!
u2017-11-15-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I regret that we cannot speak to the Secretary of State in an interactive manner, we cannot speak, and we can only listen to him. The other part, the substance of the matter, is that it should be ensured, Mr State Secretary, that children carry the four basic characteristics of basic training: they can read, read, count, read, understandable reading, so that this is the basis for obviously having the right skills in the vocational training system. That's why there's the first thing. He shows, I said, the Polish example, where it was done, the PISA results bring with them how much better movements are in Poland than in Hungary. It's one of the sins of the past eight years. But let's move on to the vocational training system. In the VET system, if this fund were to be established, if it were to be created, it would be necessary to create a base, a background that should be coupled with additional requirements that are now built upon it in adult education, just in order not to have to start the learning process there. But lifelong learning, the necessity of lifelong learning, of course, requires this in this sense with development, robotisation and everything else in every given life situation. Going back to the beginning: it would be good, for example, to make a significant step forward in terms of career guidance systems, because there is a lot to be done about whether good choices are being made in the start-up phase or whether continuous life adjustments are to be made. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-11-15-106	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I'll see if anyone else wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary, who clearly wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2017-11-15-107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When the comments started, I thought that I wanted to respond to every thought, problem idea and proposal raised, because I heard a number of proposals that were important to us. After all, in the expo, in the introduction, I explained the reasons for this adjustment, this amendment of the law, this legislative amendment proposal, and then as the thoughts piled up, and the number of speaking minutes increased, I thought that I would respond to what was said in general with a few thoughts, for a few sentences overall. First of all, I would like to say that perhaps because of the lack of proper interpretation of the title of the bill in a few comments - or I do not know if they understood the entire amendment; in worse cases they understood that they simply did not respond properly and they are not telling the truth - a number of misunderstanding and accounting sentences have been drawn up on their part. One that is not, by the way, part of this law, and may not have had any reality, had much to do with reality; on the other hand, unfortunately, thoughts were formulated that were otherwise included in the draft law as a response, and on the other hand, it was not even possible to read the intentions expressed by opposition representatives in relation to the bill. But I stood or stand on the comments in a positive way and, above all, in terms of the first comments, I understood, I heard from the comments that expressed positive opinions, because many said that there were amendments, draft measures in this amending proposal, which were precisely because labour market expectations had changed, the author of the proposal responded, the government responded. What I mean here is, in particular, what I have said is that the labour market has changed and that we are trying to meet the needs of the labour market that is under change in an appropriate way, but not in the way that some Members have put it, for example, that we are trying to train droids. And when I said that they may not have read the amendment proposal and its title carefully, I would like to refer here to the fact that, unfortunately, in opposition statements, the changes in vocational training intended to be mixed with the goals set and set in adult education and its implementation - I hope this was not done intentionally. [[16.00]] Of course, in vocational education and training, we place great emphasis not only on vocational training, but also on the training of public knowledge and education, which is the task of secondary school, or it is the task of secondary school, and it is also the task of our vocational education institutions. Where we want to make shorter-cycle training more flexible, for example, by reducing administrative burdens or by providing shorter-term training, this does not mean that we want to see droids on the labour market - once again using the wording of one of my fellow Members - but we want to meet the need to meet the need for employers to be able to acquire, for example, the management and operation of this technique by means of a short-cycle training. This therefore applies primarily to corporate internal training, but it seems that I say my answer in vain, because just those who have formulated these problems are not here. [[Gergely Farkas intervenes.]] [[Gergely Farkas intervenes.]] It also shows that they don't want to hear about it anyway (Gergely Farkas intervenes.) To respond to the problems they put forward, they no longer care what the government might say in response. We would therefore like to introduce shorter-cycle trainings in adult education, or Mr Nándor Gúr, my fellow Member, said the example that the professional knowledge of a welder can be divided into modules and parts by the fact that there are flame welders, arc welders, CO welders or qualified welders, and it is not certain that an adult person who needs a specific welding knowledge, theoretical and professional, practical knowledge at his workplace should all have the four. In this case, we will allow you to acquire one of the modules of the welding industry, one of your skills through practical training and theoretical training, and a specialist with evidence and considerable experience in some other irony profession. That is what we would like to do, for example, in the context of this amendment. And now I'm going to go back to school for a while: we don't want to force students to make an early election either. It is precisely the change that shows - and here it is again - that either opposition representatives have not read the proposal carefully, or have misinterpreted it - that we want young people in the 10th grade, in the 10th grade of the high school to decide that they want to expand their professional knowledge, for example, by training in practice, by obtaining IT knowledge in a larger number of hours, or by studying some other subject of public knowledge, precisely because they think that they want to study further in higher education after completing the vocational school. So exactly what we are trying to do is expand, make it more flexible and wider with this amendment. I have responded to the knowledge of public knowledge, and the future needs to be planned - I thank Mr Józsa for his presence here and for listening to the response in this regard - because it will be precisely the design of this future, the planning of the near future and the further future that we have called a sectoral skills council, because here the participants in vocational training and stakeholders will be involved in planning, professional planning, content planning and even in individual training directions. That there was no social consultation - what I believe Congressman Gúr said, and perhaps Balázs Ander also said. There has been a very serious social consultation with trade unions and also with social partners, employers and trade union representative bodies, and some opinions and some criticisms have, moreover, been broadly agreed with the amendment. And that they expressed criticism and opinion, with criticism, they also expressed an opinion, and we adopted opinions that we were able to incorporate into this draft, because this is how the stakeholder organisations were included in the sectoral skills council as participating partners - as Balázs Ander said - and we also consider it important to participate in this work, in the planning of the future, in matters of content, in professional matters, in the way that the representatives of chambers, the representatives of schools, trade unions and other professional organisations are involved. So I think - back to my original and first thoughts - that I have heard, despite all the criticisms expressed by the current opposition representatives, that they support this proposal in general and perhaps in detail, this amending proposal. I therefore ask you and them that, when the vote is taken, given that they have been positive and supported this proposal in many, many respects, I will ask them to vote in favour of the amendment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-15-108	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. No one applied for a post-meeting speech. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. I'm closing the meeting, and I wish you all a good day. [[Meeting ended at 4:08 p.m.]]
