u2017-09-19-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down. On several ministerial tables you can see a pack of baby things.]] Dear Parliament, The 2nd day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and István Ikotity will be attending the meeting to help me. [[For signal:]] István Szávay? I'm sorry, I'm fixing it. I just said hello. Excuse me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Before we begin our work, I'd like the room officials to move the items placed on the ministerial desks out of the room. [[It's happening.]] Thank you. I would ask the person who has placed them either by post or on a stock shed or by hand to the Prime Minister's office. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély applied for a pre-meeting speech: å Tens of thousands of sinful families? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-09-19-1	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, You're lying, or at least you're giving a double speech on how you're doing with the flask baby program. For years, they promised to double the state's funding, but they didn't do anything. In Hungary, there are nearly 200,000 couples facing the problem of infertility. They are the ones who, even if they want to have children, are not sure that they will ever experience this joy. The journey for them is long and excruciating. It takes a lot of time, a lot of money, and a lot of patience to finally, if all goes well, achieve a goal. Twenty-nine years ago, the first Hungarian flask baby was born. In recent years, I have repeatedly asked what is the situation with their many years of failed promises. It was only two billion forints. We spend hundreds of billions of forints on vacant stadiums, and the last time the government spent more than 4 billion forints to advertise the national consultation entitled "Stop Brussels!" In recent months, I have submitted more than ten questions about fertility treatments, and I have also put the matter on the agenda in the form of an interpellation. Perhaps this siege was due to the fact that it was a long time from now that something was about to start. Then came Bishop András Veres' speech on August 20. Then Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén put another shovel on it when he called what happened to the embryos that were not planted a category of horrors. But he also said that the government is waiting for Bishop Veres's proposal for a regulation that meets the Church's teachings and works from a biomedical point of view. The government doesn't want the opinion of the profession and not of the people involved. When I asked how many embryos have been destroyed in the last year, how many embryos are frozen in Hungary today, I was told by you that healthcare providers do not have a statutory obligation to provide data on these data, and therefore no data are available to the Ministry. So they deliberately harassed the public. What were they trying to do? After the flask procedure was declared a sin, and the participants were deemed to be guilty, there was some chaos in government communication. They did not speak for days after the bishop and Semyen's statement. In the meantime, Madam Secretary of State has not been able to cool off the tempers that have been flogged by the ministers of the Wild Christian and the Bishop. He was trying to save the insurmountable, to expand the program, and he didn't think the government would. Finally, steps were taken, which took the form of a regulation at the end of August and entered into force in October, while the government gave up about a hundred children each month. It's a pleasure that they're finally expanding funding, but they're killing non-state maintenance. Does the state get their hands on this, too? But why did it take years to increase support? Why did the government give up thousands of children who could not be born because of inaction? Why did the couples involved in fertility treatment have to be branded, and with this also the unborn and unborn children? I wonder what caused the communication chaos. It was assessed whether the disabled, the poor, the homeless, and the infertile couples, and the children of the flask, after the refugees, could become objects of public hatred? Have you tested how long the government hate cannon can shoot you? When the wallet attacks me by using barren couples as a political weapon, they do not insult me, Madam Secretary, but the 200 thousand parties involved, because they prove that they are not even capable of being humane in this matter. Why should I keep quiet what meant life to me and tens of thousands of families, Madam Secretary? If I wanted to be cynical, I would say that Viktor Orbán didn't hide the kindness of football, he even had a stadium built at the end of his garden. It's just that, you know, it's not football that matters to me, it's the hundreds of thousands of couples who are fighting this disease in Hungary today. A child is joy and happiness in every family. In the case of barren couples, this is particularly the case, Madam Secretary. I brought these little socks because, you know, it became fashionable in Hungary, too, when a couple of children are pregnant, they express this great joy either with blue or red little socks that indicate that a little girl is born or that both are born. I wish every couple in Hungary that they could put this little sock on the table. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-09-19-2	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Katalin Novák will respond. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2017-09-19-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We all know what the demographic situation is in Hungary, we have been struggling with a demographic crisis since 1981, and for 36 years more people have died every year than are born. And not all the children that young people want are born, but if we ask young people today, they are pro-marriage, pro-family, and want children, as many as possible. At the same time, we also need to see that the date of childbearing has been extended not only in Hungary but also throughout Europe or in the more developed part of the world. Today, young couples have an average of over 30 years of age in Hungary. We also see that infertility is indeed a growing problem. Today, one in five parties are already involved in fertility problems in Hungary, which is why it is important for us to help these couples. I wish, and I wish, and I ask you, honourable Member, that we be at least moderate in this matter, at least sober, not hysterical, not fog stabbers. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Secretary of State!]] [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Secretary of State!]] Instead, let us choose a sensible, normal speech on this issue. What's this about? We're talking about couples who are vulnerable, who are in a difficult situation. If you are now trying to generate a party political debate by force, you are wrong (Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: State Secretary!) You're hitting on the couples you're supposed to be speaking for. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély: God!]] We are talking about couples - I think you know quite well - who are not only in a vulnerable position, but have been through very difficult, long ordeals when they even get to the flask treatment. [[9.10]] It is therefore not worth talking about this issue in a manipulative way. It is not worth using them so that you can gain some perceived or hoped advantage from this either for your party or for yourself. I wouldn't recommend that. I think we should keep this moderate voice, and I think that is how we should talk about this very serious issue. And, yes, there is an aspect of this issue that may not be mentioned, but it is worth talking about. There is also a certain aspect of life protection, and there are very, very many who would like to be able to enjoy a child's blessing if they could participate in the flask program so that they can respect life as much as possible if they could respect the very important value of life protection. It is a question that is good to have a social conversation, it is good to have these questions and to have everyone's opinion. And why and how the decision to expand and increase the funding of the flask program was taken is precisely the reason why we asked a lot of people, we consulted a lot of people, stakeholders, representatives of science, representatives of health care, and, yes, representatives of the teachings of the churches. I think it's worth asking all these people when you touch this very sensitive system. So instead of hystericalisation, deception, and slides, I ask that we speak to these couples with empathy, in a reassuring way, and not tell them that they have something to fear, because, on the contrary, what is happening now is that we have faster access, more access, more capacity, and more opportunities for couples with fertility problems. What exactly is happening right now? So far, I'm sure you know that the government has supported 5 public-funded IVF cycles, so we've tied the number of supported cycles to the patient. Compared to this, we say that if these flask treatments are effective, so if a baby is born from these treatments, let's say that this count is restarted, so we can support a further 4-4 funded cycles per child instead of 5 so far. We would like to make sure that there is as much of a flask doll as possible for couples who are willing to do this and who, in this way, want to have children and are able to have children. In addition, we add 2 billion forints per year to this system and increase the support of flask treatments by 2 billion forints per year. This also means an increase in capacity. As a result, the number of flask treatments may double within 2-3 years, and therefore the number of flask dolls is expected to increase. We are also increasing the subsidies to reduce the financial burden on the families involved in the flask treatments. Here we increase the support of medicinal products associated with flask treatment from 70 percent to 90 percent. That's an extra 500 million forints. In addition, we decided on a one-time development of HUF 5 billion to improve capacity, as it is true that we want couples to be able to participate in flask treatments in as many places as possible, using as many choices as possible. In addition, with HUF 1.4 billion we support the development of the Buda Mercy and Bethesda Hospital, where a centre of men's and women's medicine will be established. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So I hope that everyone will hear that we are also in favour of couples who want to have children on this issue. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-19-4	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The representative of the politics, István Ikotity, also applied for a speech before the agenda:. No one should take the title of the Hungarian language to the market. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-09-19-5	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, It is well known that the Ukrainian Parliament has adopted the new Education Act, according to which mother tongue education in secondary schools and higher education institutions can be completely abolished. Apparently, the Hungarian government and specifically Minister of Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó were affected by the Ukrainian adoption of the law as a result of a lightning strike. This is surprising because the draft legislation has been known for at least six months. In addition to giving all the support for maintaining Hungarian education in Transcarpathia and the entire Carpathian Basin to the Hungarian government and organisations across the border, we have questions and concerns as to how this could have happened, what could be behind it, that the Hungarian government has done nothing for a long time to prevent our Hungarian compatriots living in Ukraine from being in such an unworthy situation. The Hungarian government, with Viktor Orbán and Péter Szijjártó, serves the interests of Russian President Vladimir Putin in such a way that it overrides everything? The international isolation of the government and the excessive influence of Russia are dangerous not primarily because foreign newspapers write nasty things about Viktor Orbán or think bad things about him, but because he puts the Hungarian interest in the picture. What is the reason why the Hungarian government has not been able to use the tools of diplomacy so far? No one's talking to us, or were they busy with something else? Did the settlement bonds take the time? Has the government neglected regular and ongoing consultation with Ukrainian leadership at institutionalised forums of dialogue, whether national policy or economic? The situation could have been improved by summits, but the Hungarian government also failed to do so. Dear House, In the field of education, the administration of the Ukrainian law before the vote is not the only success story on the part of the government. That's what we saw in the CEU case. One of the conditions for the university's survival is to enter into an agreement with the state of New York, which has not happened to this day, there is only levitation. It is also necessary that the preliminary agreement with the U.S. federal government has been embarrassed. However, there is no government explanation for how CEU should actually train in the country of origin, which is also a condition. No resolution or information was given to this by government agencies. Sacrificing knowledge and training of young people on the altar of political propaganda and campaign is not a simple mistake, but a serious sin. The government struck CEU with enormous vehemency, but when the Hungarian school in Targu Mures was supposed to be protected since last November, the heat was not so great, just before the start of the school year. Two weeks ago, thousands of people protested in Vásárhely in order to preserve the school, which resulted in at least the salvation of the Catholic high school in Targu Mures, but unfortunately its independent legal status ceased. What steps does the Hungarian Government take to protect the fundamental rights of Hungarians in Transylvania? Alliances should be concluded at the EU's forums to act together, in cooperation with other nations, to enforce and strengthen the collective rights of minorities. Hopefully a successful example will be the signature collection campaign of the Minority Safety initiative in Europe. Unfortunately, this initiative is not a help for Transcarpathian Hungarians, but we need to find a way to act effectively together in their interests. We offer assistance to the Hungarian organisations in Transcarpathia and the Hungarian Government, and we hope that the Ukrainian position will continue to soften and that the relevant part of the law will not come into effect. The interests of Transcarpathian Hungarians could be served by the government to change Putin's servile Russian policy. We need an independent and strong Ukraine to be increasingly aggressive in recent times with Russia. And finally, I would like to say that no one can put the Hungarian language on the market. Thank you. [[9.20]]
u2017-09-19-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Levente Magyar wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2017-09-19-7	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, For a while, I took notes and tried to follow up on all the nonsense that was said by the Member, but then I gave up and stopped after about three lines because I had lost track. For example, when it was said that we managed to save the Catholic institution in Targu Mures, but it ceased; or something like that was said. I am no longer very good at following this, Mr President, but I will try to respond in a structured manner to the questions that have been raised and to the accusations that have been made. Honourable Congressman, To be honest, I am not fully aware that the LMP has been so important since the issue of Hungarians across the border. [[István Ikotity: From the beginning.]] In recent times, there would have been a great deal of opportunities for standing up for cross-border Hungarian affairs, when it could have been joined in joint initiatives aimed at strengthening the positions of Hungarians across borders, but it seems that this has not been important for the LMP so far, and it is only important now in a context that it knows how to attack the government, the government's communication and the government's extremely hard stand for minorities across the border. Honourable Congressman, I regret the lead of your speech. [[István Ikotity: I want a professional answer!]] I regret that, one day after last night, a few hours ago, we had a constructive debate on the fact that, by means of a five-party initiative, the House will today, in all likelihood and hope, adopt a joint decision condemning Ukrainian events, condemning the amendment of the Ukrainian education law, and then you, Mr President, come here by saying that we are not doing enough, Hungary is not going to stand up and challenge these issues. Honourable Congressman, I am primarily concerned with your indiscretion of the fact that you are unaware of how a law is born in Ukraine, of the outcome of such a decision. I must tell you frankly that I must make communication modest, because these are depths in which even I, or we ourselves, do not see it, but I would like to advise you with good heart to study this political culture, because, honourable Member, I do not know if you are aware, for example, that when you voted in favour of this law, the text of which was not known to Members. How can we specifically, in a textual way attack a proposal that even those Members who vote on it do not know? To this day, there is no consolidated text of this bill, honourable Member. So before you lecture us on how to lobby in advance against such a law, my request before you is to be informed of the circumstances in which such a law is born. You didn't surprise us, honourable Member. The sudden, cross-border and Transcarpathian lobbying of the LMP for Hungarians is all the more unexpected and surprising, although it is obviously a commendable and welcome development. However, it did not surprise us, because the person watching the events in the Carpathian Basin, Transcarpathian events, clearly knew that a systematic campaign against the Hungarian minority was being built in Ukraine for a long time, that state power stimulates anti-Hungarian emotions, and that not only the educational law, but also a number of other discriminatory laws are being prepared, and is still under preparation in various stages on the table of Ukrainian legislation. Honourable Congressman, If you were to follow the steps and negotiations of Hungarian diplomacy and not start to deal with it in such a sudden situation, you would be aware that in recent years the central element of our bilateral relationship system and, otherwise, of our extremely versatile relationship system has been the question of how we can ensure and ensure the rights of Hungarians there in full. This has not come as a surprise to us, and we have been lobbying for a long time in international fora on a bilateral basis so that these regulations cannot be adopted. But in a geopolitical situation, honourable Member, when such laws can be created under the American Protectorate - let us say the truth, because American diplomacy welcomed this step - we obviously have limited room for manoeuvre, but that does not mean, honourable Member, that we are not doing everything we can to remedy these issues. As Minister of Foreign Affairs Szijjártó announced a few minutes ago, even at various UN forums, we will block any Ukrainian effort that we can block in Ukrainians to revise this law, to amend its extremely illegal provisions, and, if possible, not even sign it by President Porosenko. I hope that next time we can talk about the situation in Romania, because it is at least as important. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-19-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Mr Gergely, also submitted a speech before the agenda: with faith for the Nationals - in the wake of János Esterházy. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-09-19-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, A few days ago, on Saturday, 16 September, according to his will, Count János Esterházy's Hungarian martyr politician's ashes were put to rest in the Franciscan Chapel of the Holy Cross in Lower Bodok. János Esterházy was born in Nitraújlak in 1901. The Czechoslovakia between the two world wars and later the most prominent Hungarian politician in Slovakia, allied with Hitler. During World War II, as a member of the Slovak Parliament, he did not vote for the law approving the deportation of Jews ex post, and at the end of the war he saved the Jews and other persons persecuted by the Nazis. After World War II, the Slovak government released him as a war criminal to the Soviet Union, where he was sentenced to forced labor and dragged to a Siberian camp. In his absence, János Esterházy was sentenced to death by a Slovak court in 1947, and in 1949 the Soviets released him to the Czechoslovak authorities. He was pardoned as President and sentenced to life imprisonment, which was subsequently modified to 25 years in prison during a general amnesty. János Esterházy died on 8 March 1957 in the prison of Mirov, Moravia. To this day, John Esterházy, deeply devoted to his Christian faith, is an outstanding example of love for the homeland, of helping fellow people in need. CHAPTER XX He was persecuted by mass murderers, national and international socialist dictatorships of the century, because under all circumstances he insisted on Christian values, the Christian roots of European civilization. During his life, he was closely linked to each of the countries called Visegrad today. This year's commemoration of the 60th anniversary of the death of a rehabilitated martyr politician in the Czech Republic and Slovakia stands out last weekend, since his ashes have finally returned to his homeland, the Highlands. Last Saturday, the Archbishop of Krakow and the bishops of the Hungarian and Slovak camps attended the ceremony with prominent public and political participants. At the memorial, the Czech monk František Lizna gave a speech, who also witnessed the healing of his cancer to the heavenly intercession of János Esterházy. Ladies and Gentlemen, János Esterházy puts it this way in one place: "Only a nation worthy of a better fate and eternal life that can appreciate its greatness and whose exemplary work is always in mind. We now know with certainty that he himself is one of the greats of our history, whose memory and spiritual heritage we must cultivate. His life's work brings us respect, and it must motivate us to act. Last week the Esterházy Academy, which, with the support of the Bethlen Gábor Fund, is engaged in the taking up and training of talented young people and university students in the highlands to educate the leaders, politicians and journalists of public life who will be able to serve the Hungarians of the Highlands at a professional level and in the spirit of János Esterházy. The example of Esterházy, the start of last week's academy and the re-eviation also shows that the preservation and protection of the interests of our Hungarian communities abroad always requires determination and action. In recent weeks, the Hungarian State's very strong stand on the Ukrainian education law and the school in Targu Mures was a milestone. The reactions of the Hungarian government show the image of Hungary, which seeks good relations with its neighbours, but which does not run away from sensitive issues, and which has an increasingly important economic and cultural role in the region, regains its healthy self-esteem, which also shows that we have finally exceeded the era of being small. Dear House, János Esterházy's faith, perseverance, courage and spirit stand as an example not only to the high country but also to the whole Hungarians. His name must go to his rightful historic place. This will help when his happiness is achieved, and it must be truly reassuring to have political rehabilitation. [[9.30]] Remembering János Esterházy's principles under all circumstances, please allow me to say this with a small historical leap to the great figure of the struggle for Hungarian freedom, and with the thoughts of Lajos Kossuth, born just 215 years ago today, I must conclude:. Their fidelity can sometimes grow into a seed in his future land. Sometimes it hatches out of their dust, and it never hatched out of their lives. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-19-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Árpád Potápi will also respond on behalf of the Government.
u2017-09-19-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Let me also wish you good luck and good work, after Mr. President's oath yesterday. I would like to say to your contribution before the agenda, as you said, last Saturday one of the most outstanding events in the history of the Hungarian community in the Highlands took place in Alsóbodok. János Esterházy's ashes returned home accompanied by thousands of participants, and found their final resting place in the Holy Cross Hall. We trust that this event will also contribute to enabling János Esterházy to finally take his place in the memory of the Hungarian nation, and, after decades of unfair stigmatisation, he will be rehabilitated by the Czech and Slovak authorities and then made happy. In 1947, when the Czechoslovak court condemned him, someone asked the judge, besides the trial and the meeting room, why he had to condemn János Esterházy, the judge replied only because he was Hungarian. In order to preserve its spiritual heritage, we support the operation of the Esterházy Academy, which also opened its doors last week, among its walls the Hungarian youth in the Highlands can learn not only the past and present of their community, but also how they can act on Esterházy's path for the entire Hungarian nation. The Hungarian government considers it especially important to present examples to the Hungarian people whose actions are the 21st. They can guide us in the face of the challenges of the century. In 2016, the State Secretary for National Policy began a series of commemorative years with the Áron Márton Memorial Year, and this year he continued with the Szent László Year. One of the main engines of the coordination of both years was the congressman. One of the most outstanding events of last year was, without a doubt, when, on the anniversary of his death, we placed the remains of Áron Márton, accompanied by thousands of participants, in the chapel of the Cathedral of Gyulafehérvár, in a sacred stone sarcophagus. It is an uplifting feeling that both the great watchmen of the foreign Hungarians can now rest in their own communities at a worthy location. This year, as I said, the Secretary of State for National Policy honors the memory of St. Laszlo, because the King of Knight is still showing us the way to fight for our nation, for our Christian roots. If it is not unhistoric to reflect the present back into the past, it can be said that for today's V4 the then, XI. He was one of the most prominent figures in Europe in the century. The main purpose of the programme elements of the Memorial Years was to give the young people of the Carpathian Basin the role of the great figures of our Hungarian history. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Today, János Esterházy tells us to stick to our acquired rights under all circumstances. Now, when they make a Hungarian school impossible for justice in Turosvásárhely, as we have heard from the previous speech and reply, and we all know that we all have to stand by this school, because every step back means the loss of the next castle. The opening of the Hungarian language schools in Transylvania took place in Brasov two weeks ago, with the participation of Minister Balog and his festive speech. There was no speaker in Brasov who did not stand up for the school in Marosvásárhely. We know very well that the Catholic Church, the county of Gyulafehérvár, performed very hard. We also stand for all Hungarian schools in Ukraine. It is not true that the Hungarian Government has not done anything in recent years, since there was no international forum or bilateral negotiation where we did not discuss the amendment of the Education Act. We stand next to every single Hungarian school, we support every single Hungarian person if he suffers any harm in any area of the world. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-19-12	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Jobbik's representative, Mr Staudt Gábor, asked for a pre-scheduled speech: . Let us make a distinction between public interest and the interests of Fidesz. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-09-19-13	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, Parliament can vote on a better proposal that would increase the limitation period for corruption crimes to 12 years, although only in an emerging system. This reflects the referendum initiative tabled by our former fellow Member Gábor Vágó, on which our fellow Member Gergely Gulyás has already stated that this would be generously supported by the Fidesz-KDNP majority if it were to be submitted to Parliament. It seems that Fidesz is indeed so frightened by the possibility of a referendum that it is ready to conclude this compromise. But we can't just sit back, because the fight against corruption is just beginning, and this is just a small chord in the direction of possible laws that will bring order to Hungary. Since András Lánczi, President of the Századvég Foundation, we know that what we call corruption is the main policy of Fidesz. This is how events are judged. The majority of the Fidesz-KDNP may sometimes be willing to limit themselves, but you may think that the prosecution will probably not act, and this 12-year deadline will be avoided, and the crimes will be forgotten. It is recalled that the political elite in Hungary has stolen roughly three to four times the total current government debt since the 1990s. I can also say that we can talk about 80-100 billion forints. That's an amazing amount of money, even to say. By the way, according to international statements, Hungary is the 12th place in the world in respect of stolen property. We are preventing countries such as Ukraine, Turkey, Kazakhstan, and we are not talking about stolen income per capita, but we are talking about absolute value, divided into total volume. This is horrifying, because these are far bigger and more corrupt countries than we are. We can only guess who stole these funds, but unfortunately we have seen in the last eight years that these processes are only moving forward and we cannot see those responsible at all. There are two reasons for that. You always say the laws are good and the investigating authorities are doing their job well. Now, if that were the case, then the public money theft couldn't continue. However, they will continue, and it must be concluded that you are not telling the truth, and neither do you want to change the laws, nor do you want to put the functioning of justice in order; so that for almost 12 years - if you look at the period after the regime change, the 27 years, almost 12 years ago - the Prime Minister is called Viktor Orbán. The big problem is that you don't even want to wash off the charges of corruption. Most of the Fidesz voters already believe that the Fidesz and the Fidesz-KDNP governments are corrupt parties, but they find this acceptable in exchange for the appearance of security. We don't know what could have been behind the 200 billion offshore business now, even though the program has already been suspended, which doesn't mean it's been lifted - I would like to draw attention to that. And in the end, these bonds were offered with constructions that could compete with and compete with human traffickers in a whole family. This is also horrifying, it seems, that it was only the poor migrants that they wanted to keep away. But it is not a crime either, of course, if, as Congressman Sándor Farkas did, one and a half billion are forgotten to enter; it is only forgetfulness. [[9.40]] What suggestions did Jobbik make that you didn't support? For example, the full disclosure of politicians' statements of property; otherwise, Jobbik's representatives have already volunteered to do so. Mandatory property inspection at the beginning and at the end of each term; if Members of Parliament had nothing to fear, this could also have been introduced. And if an asset doesn't have legal cover, it should also be subject to compulsory confiscation. Similarly, the abolition of immunity is an old desire of voters. But I could also mention that the mandatory publicity of public spending contracts and the rethink of fraudulent and sloppy treatment has been voted out. Nor should it be said that yesterday the Judicial Committee voted off a proposal that would have double-punished politicians, and in certain cases, such as theft, embezzlement, fraud, fraudulent treatment and fiscal fraud, would have been included in the criminal code as a qualifying circumstance as an official or a public order. So there's plenty of work to be done, and the Jobbik will continue to make suggestions. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-19-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2017-09-19-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You have listed a lot here in your speech before the agenda; I think it would be very difficult to answer it along a line. Perhaps the word "public interest" is what we can interpret in this whole story. There have been references that have not been made by Fidesz, or have not been properly recalled, and I would not discuss them again, because, in fact, the physical background, statistical reality of what has been said, let us consider the 80-100 thousand billion HUF assets that we would very much like to see, because it would be very good if it were really here in the country. We know that in 2010, the way it was opened up, we really tried to explore those acts, those official procedures started, and perhaps also triggered Jobbik's dissatisfaction about what could be achieved with them within the framework of the legal system. We all know that these crimes, these corruption cases, which are still being investigated in part, are not in the Fidesz era. So accusing the current governing parties that, by tailoring the laws to themselves, they want to conceal their own excuses, so to speak, or their dealings - clearly that is not the case. Under the rule of law, excavable crimes can only be carried out under criminal law, criminal proceedings, EU standards and all kinds of EU legal frameworks. That's how you legislate. We all remember that in the previous parliamentary term, the Btk. it has been renewed, it has been tightened up, we have basically gone up to the wall as long as the framework of European law is allowed; either in the debates before the Venice Commission or the Council of Europe that could be defended, the tightening ups have taken place. What is now ahead of us is this 12-year statute of limitations, which is precisely why the opposition has been able to find each other, Jobbik and the ruling parties, because they have made a virtually marginal issue part of a political hack campaign, which is not a standard and general regulation within the EU within the law. It is clear that Gergely Gulyás expressed his willingness to deal generously with this case because, in practice, we cannot allow the institution of the referendum to be covered with such means or, in fact, to be empty, which has been created for much more serious matters. I am very pleased that today we can put an end to this matter. Congressman has also mentioned cases such as the settlement policy. The only reason I do not want to protect the institution itself is because we know that in the economic situation when we introduced it, the country desperately needed adequate foreign exchange resources, since in 2010 we had to repay the former IMF and EU loans after the beneficial activity of the Bajnai government and that the funds could only be used more expensively from the markets to cover this. With regard to the settlement obligation, I would also note that this institution lives in most Member States of the Union, so it is not an exceptional and not a preferred form invented by our government, but an institution operating on the same sample, which, I say, provided great help during that period. Jobbik has also made proposals for a declaration of assets. We have discussed this several times in Parliament, and we have all listed comparative examples that have shown that Hungarian legislation is one of the strictest in Europe. Practically up to the limits of the right of personality, it provides information on the financial situation of both families and politicians. They could not even give an example that there would be stricter regulation in one country, or that would make their own data practically so public to politicians. We all know about immunity, who have learned the history of law, that it is a achievement that effectively serves to protect opposition representatives from the executive power. Or here, when... [[Dr. Vas Imre's intervention.]] Maybe. Excuse me, Congressman. So, basically, it's a state-of-law achievement that would also result in international protest. And speaking of the politician's double sentence, once again, we can only refer to our university studies, that we really need to justify it when we say, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] in the context of criminal law, we exceptionally remove someone from the penalty and punish them severely. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-19-16	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The representative of Fidesz, Mr Zsolt Nyitrai, asked for a pre-meeting address:.Citizens for the protection of Hungarian families. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-09-19-17	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the word and opportunity. In my speech before the agenda, I would like to talk about the Hungarian vigilantes and the National Citizens' Association, which brings them together. Today, more than 60,000 fellow citizens serve as vigilantes in Hungary. They are the ones who voluntarily guard the safety of families living in villages and cities, under their free time. Thank you for that. Dear Parliament, The president of the National Civil Guard Association has recently said that he is living in the golden age of the Civil Guard. That is true, since several decisions have been made since 2010 that have strengthened the vigilantes. The Civil Guard Act entered into force in 2012 and the qualification as a public body gives an appropriate rank for managing activities. The National Citizens' Association has never received such budget support, not to mention infrastructure assistance and support, I am thinking of clothing, equipment and vehicles. Dear Parliament, Let's look at some interesting information about the Civil Guard. There are currently 2074 militias with 61,000 members. Last year alone, the number of vigilantes increased by 5,000. It is anticipating that from 2015 young vigilantes will also be able to enter. Today, 1100 is a 14-18-year-old member of the organization. In 2016, the vigilantes completed 9 million hours of work, service hours, 150-160 a year. Thank you for that. We should also thank the vigilantes for their involvement in border protection on illegal migration, in cooperation with the police and the defence. The border section of the Civil Guard was formed with 55 associations and 1200 vigilantes. We must protect Hungary's borders under all circumstances, which is also the responsibility of the vigilantes. The vigilantes are very proud of the riding class, which is involved with 800 horses and 900 horsemen in the control of the outside areas and in the protection of the border. Overall, we can say that public safety has not been as balanced as it is today since the change of regime. Hungary, it can also be said that it is an island of peace, and that depends on the vigilantes. Dear Parliament, Allow me to thank the Ministry of the Interior and, personally, Minister Sándor Pintér, or Minister of State, because I know that you have the attention of the vigilantes and the vigilantes. I ask the government to look at the National Civil Guard Association as a strategic partner, the vigilantes, and I also ask the government to conclude a strategic cooperation agreement with the National Civil Guard Association, because the objectives are common: the protection of the citizens of the country. [[9.50]] Allow me once again to thank more than 60,000 vigilantes for guarding and protecting the safety of Hungarian families. I would also like to thank the family members of the vigilantes, their relatives, for letting them go in their spare time to look after our settlements. I wish effective work for the vigilantes, the vigilantes, in the coming period. I wish that their ambitions will be crowned with success. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-19-18	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontrat wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2017-09-19-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Today in Europe and throughout the world, order and security are the most important community values, which define our daily lives, and also determine the conditions for our prosperity. Today, according to the efforts of over seven and a half years and as a result, Hungary is one of the safest countries in Europe and in the world, as Hungary is the ninth safest country in the world based on data recently published by the UK Foreign Ministry. I believe that this speaks for itself, and in this there is a prominent role for state law enforcement, police, services, defence and the civilian watch. If we look back over the last seven and a half years and think back on the state in which we took over the country, in 2010, the government of national cooperation defined the restoration of order as a national matter, the improvement of citizens' sense of security, and we also defined the frameworks and the means by which we wanted to achieve this goal: we strengthened the police with more than 4,000 people, then we adopted strict laws, we strengthened the police in its assets and financial conditions, we adopted a new career law in 2015, but also on the Civil Guard, as the Member said, in 2011, we adopted a new law that will enable the organisation to operate more effectively and more effectively. We have now come to the point that Hungary, in this situation, when it is also necessary to protect the southern borders, because the police, law enforcement and defence have a double task - on the one hand, to guarantee the security of the country and, on the other hand, to protect the borders, the protection of the southern borders, the borders of the European Union, the protection of the Schengen borders - in the implementation of this dual task, the Civil Guard is a great help to the police. That is why I thank you, and I thank all the vigilantes, because, as the Member said, at the expense of their own free time, at the expense of their families, if possible, or with the agreement and support of their families, in this very important activity, for which I once again thank you, because their activities are very important in preventing crime. Let me give you two numbers. I can say that the number of crimes in the public area has decreased by 50 percent, and that the number of high-level crimes most dangerous to the general public's subjective sense of security has decreased by 46.7 percent between 2010 and 2016. More than 65 percent of survey respondents reported in 2013 that they felt safe after dark, until 2016 this ratio increased to 76 percent, which has since increased further. Hungary is doing a great deal to maintain this security, especially with regard to the current threats linked to illegal migration. I would also like to inform this House that, under the new Civil Guard Act, the National Police Headquarters has concluded a cooperation agreement with the Civil Guard, which has been renewed, and in the last agreement in particular we have asked the Civil Guard to increase its presence in the public area, which it has fulfilled, in particular with regard to the tasks caused by illegal migration, which are the responsibility of the police and the defence. The National Citizens' Association has announced the programme called.300x100 Security, which means that 100 per cent of public security has been targeted in 300 settlements, thus increasing the subjective sense of security for the population in these settlements. Local vigilantes regularly carry out activities in support of the protection of the southern border section, and on 20 January this year, Mórahalom was established. We find that the Civil Guard, which has been highlighted for many years, receives more than 1 billion HUF 50 million per year of funding from the government's proposal, performs its activities effectively and in cooperation. I believe that the government is ready to find new forms of cooperation with the vigilantes, so that we can serve the security of Hungary and the Hungarian people even more effectively. Thank you for the National Citizens' Association and all Hungarian vigilantes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-19-20	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Next up is the 2016 LXXIV on the protection of the settlement image. Act LXXIV of 2016 on the protection of the urban image. CLXXIV of 2016 amending Act No. a joint debate on the proposal to amend law in an exceptional procedure. Government referral T/17312. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, In the debate, I will give the floor first to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office, the author of the bill, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2017-09-19-21	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the floor. The bill before you is not a new provision, as it refers back to a decision that the Parliament has already discussed; it is nothing more than the preparation of municipal image manuals. In essence, the current bill amends deadlines. However, before I discuss the content of the bill, allow me to present some basic points to you, which is the government's position on why you started this work last autumn. We think that what a generation of built environments leave behind and how it treats the built environment gives evidence of a great deal of things, and perhaps the measures that we have made, the concrete investments that we have made - the countless elements of which may be known either in Kossuth Square or in other locations in Budapest or in rural areas - all prove that the current government regards the built heritage as an important heritage. However, we also believe that in terms of real estate to be built at the moment, or in terms of real estate to be renovated, a much more coherent regulation is needed, which takes into account national guidelines and takes into account local circumstances, taking into account local values to be concentrated on. We hope that this will solve the controversial situation that we have encountered in terms of architecture since 1990, because if someone is walking around Hungary, the finest sign we can use is that the visual environment that can be seen in many places is eclectic. That is why this government has made the decision and asked the Parliament's mandate to re-regulate the entire construction system, whether we are talking about the level of spatial planning, or we are talking about the municipal level, and we should try to create a regulatory environment that guarantees that the new real estate created in this system of rules will indeed correspond to some kind of visual concept and give the buildings closest to quality common taste. When the question was extended, there was a debate as to whether it is worth imposing an obligation on some 3,200 settlements in Hungary to resolve the visual environment in cases where we see settlements, especially villages, becoming empty, and where it is not expected that new buildings will be built in the near future. We believe that if a government is serious about how economic operators, citizens and city leaders in a community, taking into account local values, can conduct a debate that will outline a coherent picture of the settlement accepted by all actors, and which is a point of alignment for everyone who wants to invest there, not as a demographic and economic background country for Budapest. [[10.00]] When the Parliament adopted the regulation on image manuals, there was a deadline in it, which was October 31, 2017, and it was already raised, perhaps even then, by Mrs Hegedűsné, that the financing of this could be a problem for smaller settlements, since there was no adequate tax revenue in these settlements. Therefore, if the government is serious about expecting this task to be carried out by settlements, it is necessary to establish its source page. With regard to the source page, the government decided to grant a HUF 1 million grant to the settlements below ten thousand inhabitants and below the tax revenue per capita of HUF 32,000. That's what happened. In August, the government adopted this provision and opened the funds. Based on current statistics, led by the Deputy State Secretary for Construction, between 75 and 77 percent of Hungarian settlements have essentially completed or completed this work. However, there is the remaining twenty-some percent, where there is an additional time requirement due to the late opening of the resources. Therefore, the Government requests the mandate of the Parliament to change the deadline for the relevant rules to 31 October 2017 in essence by 31 December 2017. So let's give these settlements an extra couple of months, which now have these resources to do this work, and at the same time the local construction regulations that currently govern what and how to build in those settlements and leave them as existing provisions until the new regulations enter into force. In essence, this represents an extension of a technical amendment date to the proposal previously adopted. Mr President, that's all I wanted to say in chief. If there are questions in the debate, I'm happy to respond to them. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-19-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur for the Legislative Committee.
u2017-09-19-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Legislative Committee is the resolution house rule 62. T/17312 took place in the exceptional procedure provided for in §2 of the Act. LXXIV of 2016 on the protection of the image of the settlement. Act LXXIV of 2016 on the protection of the urban image. CLXXIV of 2016 amending Act No. a detailed discussion of the bill amending the law. The committee had to decide on three issues during the detailed discussion. On the one hand, it had to be examined whether the submission complied with the requirements of point 44 of the Decree-Law. The Committee took the view that this proposal was in line with the relevant requirements. Two amendments had to be decided by the Committee. One of them was submitted by our fellow Member Mrs Hegedűs Loránt, but let me tell you frankly, who considers the protection of the settlement image to be a matter of heart, let us say that I do not think that he will submit such an amendment. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] because the amendment proposes to leave the majority of the bill. The other, which was initiated by the pro-government factions, proposed a technical amendment to the proposal. That was accepted by the committee. The committee closed the detailed debate yesterday by 17 votes in favour, 10 against, and submitted a summary amendment and summary report to the Parliament. This has been done in order to protect the efficient and well-founded image of local authorities. Please support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-19-24	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a 15-minute time frame per group of representatives. First, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Bányai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-09-19-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, With the amendment of the law before us, we are now able to refine and redefine a useful law. If anyone walks in the country, as you have said before, Mr Secretary of State, there are numerous anomalies in which you can find a mass of buildings that are not suitable in a settlement, a mass of poorly painted buildings with a window replacement programme. In practice, in the last 25-27-30 years of Hungary, it became typical that without any control the inhabitants of the settlements, the Hungarian citizens, were able to start a renovation or construction of a newly built house. We can give many bad examples from abroad, but one of the most critical examples, though not from Hungary, but from Transylvania: if, say, on the opening road in Bánffyhunyad, someone remembered, if there had been a municipal protection plan, like a manual, those fantastic Indian buildings could not have been erected. There would be a demand for such things in many places in the country, feared, even in our country, in Hungarian we should not be allowed to do so. Technical amendments are in practically every aspect of the law, so a new proposal is no longer worth dealing with here. It should also be seen that consultation with professional organisations has been carried out on a continuous basis over the last few months. In order to take account of the financial situation of the municipalities and the situation of small settlements, they needed their support in order to prepare this image manual. In addition, the establishment of the town-view regulation could continue calmly. This can continue to be put to the fore, and this is the fastest work that can be done by law. With regard to the image book, the reason for the extension is to create comprehensive, accessible and practically exemplary image manuals for everyone. In recent years, a number of projects have been seen in the country's various tens of thousands of investments, where an image book has been able to determine not only what elements, which fonts they can use in a project, but also new rules for building a hospital, as well as new rules for rebuilding it has been able to implement or use this other type of image manual in previous years. On behalf of the State Secretary for the Construction Authority, as I have already said, the ongoing consultation has been carried out, so all proposals of professional organisations have been discussed. In addition, it is an important question why the rules for the application of the Local Protection Regulation itself should be pushed out by one year, and why this process will not end on 31 December of this year. Local construction regulations and general settlement plans were drawn up in countless locations in the country before 2000. Most of these, or almost all of them, will expire next year, which is why these important regulations should reach each other both in terms of legal continuity and in terms of catch-up. In other words, this current amendment, which lies before us, is all about helping smaller settlements, helping them to do this work effectively, and the settlements of Hungary, after the end of the period after the ruins of the settlements, should regain their rural or small-town character again, and all kinds of help should be given. That's why I'm asking you to support the amendment of the law. For our part, we'll support it. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-19-26	Thank you, Congressman Gábor Bányai. I now give the floor to the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, Mr László Varga.
u2017-09-19-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Today at noon we will vote on three laws here in Parliament, two of which came to Parliament with a huge consensus, here I refer to the amendment of the Criminal Code and our decision for the sake of Transcarpathian Hungarians. Each party agreed to make a decision on this today. The third is this proposal, this amendment of the law, which concerns the protection of the settlement image, seemingly exclusively. [[10.10]] This came in an exceptional procedure, it did not win the total fraction support in Hungarian, it did not win this on the part of every faction. Only the governing parties think it is important that the Parliament discusses this in this respect today. Mr Nándor Csepreghy put the arguments on the table, and only the arguments that concern an amendment to the deadline, an amendment of a technical nature, which was born in the interest of the municipalities, in particular in the interests of the smaller settlements, which could not fulfil their obligation to establish a regulation on time, could not meet the deadline in relation to the image manual. He gave me these arguments. Let me give you another argument about this. And even Imre Vas's sweeping, captivating argument does not prevent me from doing so, because I claim that in the past year and a half, the multiple amendments made on this subject are not primarily for the protection of the image of the settlement, not primarily for the benefit of the people living in the settlements, but for your very specific interests and political interests. On the one hand, I must say, first of all, that it has already been seen before that these deadlines cannot be met. As you said, already in the amendment adopted on 13 June 2016, there was a later deadline, 31 December 2017, which was set by CLXXIV 2016. I was brought earlier by law. Even then, it seemed unreal. It was evident that this deadline was untenable and that all settlements would not succeed in achieving the requirements, even with strong government influence. Therefore, the amendment may be logical in this respect, but it cannot be said that this legislation does not mention it, but changes other points, for example, that instead of an option, the mayor will be obliged to carry out the notification procedure for the placement of advertisements and advertising media, and even before the creation of a new regulation, which is obviously a condition of the image manual, may also amend existing municipal regulations. In other words, the political objective governed by the Government Decree, which you want to achieve, in respect of advertising and advertising media, will now be enforced by local governments and thus by the mayors on a mandatory basis. Let us just really look at a few things about what we can see about their proposals and legislative proposals adopted earlier by the Parliament on this subject. On the one hand, it has been very clear that a rubber law is adopted, an arbitrary practice of law enforcement is being launched for advertising and advertising media, which, in line with the intention of the government decree, allows only the placement of an appropriate advertising medium for you. Extremely high fines have been imposed and applied on this issue, ranging from HUF 150,000 to HUF 3 million. In the event of termination of the infringement, they may be applied over and over again. This Government Decree lays down the conditions for public territory and also applies to advertising in private areas visible from the public area. It also regulates the permissible size of these, the permitted technologies, methods, means of advertising publication, the general formal requirements of advertising media, the administrative penalty itself, the weighing criteria for imposing an on-the-spot fine, the detailed rules for how to pay it, so it can be said that it will be a total government monopoly. The local government decree also regulates the number of advertising carriers which can be established in its area of competence, and the specific form and technical requirements of their appearance. In other words, it cannot be excluded that in some settlements such advertising carriers should not be available, or only, let's say, for kissers. It is clearly visible and has led to a number of political debates, such as the legislation on the restriction of billboards and the restriction of messages that appear on them, and it is clear that you have a political purpose, which is to restrict political competition. This is very clear, examining this amendment directly. They also forgot to say a deadline that is changed. Originally, it would have entered into force on 1 October 2017 in the context of the legislation, which will be amended by 15 February 2018. So not by 1 February 2018, not by 1 March 2018 - why is that? It's not a common situation. Not by accident: February 15, 2018 is about the period - when we make the parliamentary election on April 8, 2018, about which there is general information - which is about the beginning of the recommendation coupon collection. So I think, for those of you who have not yet made it clear why the legislative environment for the protection of the image of settlement is constantly being modified, why it is being adapted and adapted, this entry into force, I think this date makes it quite clear. Although some amendments do give local authorities technical relief in this regard, their original goal is clearly political. We have not yet supported this process, and we will not support this specific proposal. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-09-19-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. There is no candidate on the part of the Christian Democratic People's Party. Then I give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-09-19-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I know, Mr State Secretary, that it is really important for you to protect the Hungarian landscape visually, to protect and improve our settlements, to protect our local heritage, and I also know that those who created it originally drafted the law on the protection of the settlement image, this was important to them, too, and still important to this day. The only problem is that this bill, or the repeated amendment of the law that amended the municipal image protection law, has not been about that for a long time. You said that it was actually just a technical deadline amendment, which gives our settlements more opportunities to prepare these regulations well and the municipal image manual. That's far from it. However, in this regard, since both TAK and TVR have come up here in the debate, let me now give you some experience, just for the House, too, because it is very instructive that the otherwise important and good initiative, which would have been an important and good initiative in advance, would have been how it would have gone wrong when we came to the application of the legislation. First of all, it turned out for a lot of settlements already, which were otherwise aware of the need to do a municipal image manual or a regulation to do so, that the deadline is very short. At the same time, however, it is quite costly, it requires a lot of unplanned resources to prepare these two things, and there is hardly any professional in Hungary who can take responsibility for this. Based on a survey of one of my senior architects, this should be imagined by two or three major architects in one county providing a total of 250 settlements and 9 cities. Of the 30-40 settlements, 3-4 were the ones who could have financed the municipal image manual from their own resources, which is the essential element of this whole process of regulation. Not to mention that, as the source of these has been absent from many settlements, the ratio is much worse than what the honourable Secretary of State has said, so it is not true, at least according to my own survey, that 70 percent of the settlements are already ready, especially in a qualitative way. So because the source was missing, and the digital data provider behind it, the Lechner Knowledge Centre, was delayed to stand up to what was otherwise necessary for the development of this municipal image manual, the municipalities could not even conclude a contract because they had no commitment to do so. [[10.20]] So, that's how the problems started, no time, no money, and then it turns out that, at the time of the settlement, the public is barely informed, or is barely willing to participate in the preparation of this otherwise very important regulation. And that's where I think it's starting to get out of the bag, what it's really about right there. So I think that when the complete counties are barely aware of what to do, how to do it, how to create a separate regulation on how the process of social reconciliation should take place in the establishment of this regulation, who will be the partners to be involved, how they should be notified, and the rest, then it can be assumed that the government, the executive authority, does not really want to take this part, so the protection of the settlement image, it is something else, that the protection of the settlement image is in fact an alibi function in this whole law. Because actually, let's face it, that's what this is about. In the meantime, you've had your eye on the ground, and you've built a political slaughter out of this law, because that's what it's really about. And now I'm going to prove to you why I feel that way. But before that, let me go back a little bit in the story, just to sum it up very briefly, which concerns the simplified notification procedure by changing the construction law. So a Fidesz-near entrepreneur, investor or friend, let's call it whatever it is, gets stuck in the building permit process, goes on the red phone or on the K-phone the signal that there's a problem here. On this, Minister Rogán is barely taking over his appointment as Minister, and he is already disrupting Hungarian construction entirely by not requiring official authorisation for buildings below 300 square meters. But you notice that this is not good, that this is something that needs to be corrected, but rather that the correction goes in the direction of really protecting the image of the settlement, but at the same time the unnecessary, truly overgrown administration is reduced, whereas the administration is multiplied. So anyone who wants to build on a simplified notification procedure in Hungary today had to realize that the mass of professional designers had to be involved, in fact the costs increased to many times, not to mention the fact that the responsibility of the construction organizers was also very, very high. And then comes the municipal image protection law, which would try to resolve this situation in some way, by giving the municipal authorities and the mayors a very serious driver's license. Only because the real goal is a political repression, a driver's license in the hands of the mayors and municipalities that they cannot really live with or serve the purpose for which it was intended. What I'm talking about is this whole procession is crowned with a confession that's right in front of us. Why? Because, in fact, it is about what one of my fellow Members said here, in his presentation, that the municipalities can adopt existing types of regulations, but in fact in a new package of regulations, by having a deadline amendment, so that they can form a regulation and even a binding regulation on advertising and on the procedure for notification of settlement images by 1 October, i.e. only for these two things. In fact, in general, we can't talk about a municipal obligation in terms of heritage conservation, just advertising. So there will be a package of regulations on advertising and the mayor's rights - now I will simplify the story - and otherwise they will allow the municipalities to create TAK and tvr. until 31 December. There is just another paragraph that our fellow Member Vas Imre could not accept, why I would suggest this to be deleted, which would be about the fact that, in the unexpected situation, if there is no municipal protection order for a municipality on 31 December, then this former package of regulations that I am talking about, i.e. on advertising and on the mayor's rights - now, under Pallos law, he has unquestionable powers in connection with the municipal image notification procedure - can remain until 31 December 2018. So who's talking about heritage? Nobody. In fact, you give the mayors, the local authorities, the opportunity to forget TAK, because there will be no disadvantage from this, because the law itself authorizes that this should not be created until 31 December 2018. Well, then, I guess we don't really have to do that at all. And here, here's the confession: absolutely no matter how much heritage is protected, only a certain owner of advertising media or advertising media is to you. Here it is, before us is the political slaughter that used heritage protection as an alibi function. Not to mention - to add one sentence - that this is even confirmed by what was originally, and what was one of the biggest problems was TAK and tvr. When creating the local construction regulations, the elements that apply to heritage protection and local protection in general apply to municipal image protection should have been removed, so not only should a TAK and a decree have been created, but even local construction regulations have to be amended, you will also grant an exemption until 31 December 2018. So, yeah, everything can stay the way it was, nothing has to change, only all the mayors have to take part in the political reckoning. That's why we're not going to support this bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-19-30	Thank you very much, notary, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I will ask if you would like to comment by an independent Member. [[Szabolcs Szabó says no.]] It says no. No one's applied for two-minute speeches. There are other options for opposition. [[For signal:]] I'll give you the floor first off... Or would you like to react at the end, Mr. Secretary? [[Nándor Csepreghy: Now, this way.]] Mr. Secretary of State has the floor out of the question.
u2017-09-19-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, First of all, allow me to correct myself to the extent that I misjudged October 31st: September 30th. So I'm sorry, I missed a month there with the original entry into force. I would like to correct this for the record. Thank you very much for the support of Fidesz. I would like to mention to Congressman Varga that the government can only draw up arguments here in Parliament that lie behind the decision. And that is the case even if, in the heat of the political campaign, the opposition would like to see something else in its own scenario in this amendment. I think it is important to say that we are talking about a rule that has already been adopted in substance in Parliament, and which the amendment proposals essentially address with changes in time. So in substance, with this amendment proposal, which is the original adoption, Parliament does not touch the regulation. So the arguments that you are putting forward are arguments that, in the original debate of the law, have essentially failed or have not been accepted. From what Congressman Varga has to say, it is not entirely clear to me why it is a problem for a Member of Parliament that coherence is achieved in regulating the level of spatial planning, the national level and the local administrative level. [[10.30]] I think that should be the goal of heritage conservation. Nor is it right, Member, that Parliament is constantly amending the same regulation. We launched a legislative amendment package at the end of 2015, which concerns the whole of the construction sector, on the one hand, the protection of built heritage and, on the other hand, the simplification of new construction rules, and, on the third, the regulation of this generation's built and then future heritage. Everyone knew this, even if it is said in Parliament on numerous occasions that this will not mean a law amendment. This will be a work that the Hungarian Parliament will have to discuss for many years, and the Hungarian government will take part in this as an initiative. I also see no problem with the strengthening of the role of local decision-makers on this issue. Indeed, the mayors are given a driver's license, and I do not agree with the congresswoman here that they do not have the capacity to do so. Let us trust that local voters will put people in their seats as mayors and elect local government representatives who have the intellectual capacity to comply with laws and interpret laws. I would like to add to the Member's comment that, on the one hand, I have been able to miss her publicity. I think it is the duty of every city manager to shoot the Hungarian Gazette regularly, or, if not for him personally, for his notary or for the government's staff. Every rule that defines their obligation is very clearly stated in these rules. Therefore, it cannot be understood that a person does not comply with the duties of his job. The other question you missed was the lack of forums. Only 80 forums were held in various parts of the country, with the leadership of the Deputy Secretary of State and the senior architects in the county government offices. We contacted the mayors and notaries of all the settlements of Hungary in a letter on the various obligations relating to them, about the tasks they have to face in the preparation of the municipal image manuals. Now that you are raising the issue of filing instead of the authorisation procedure for residential properties, it is also wrong because you know that if someone in the Jobbik faction is competent in building matters, perhaps it is you, Congresswoman, that this can only be understood in the case of property to be built or renovated or supplemented for their own purposes. So what you're assuming is that if a contractor doesn't like something in the regulation, then he's using this procedure, it's not possible because there's no law against using it. The other issue that has been raised in the case of both opposition speakers is that this amendment serves no other purpose than political objectives. For example, if I understand Mr Varga's point of view on the date of 15 February, I would add that today there is a more stringent date on the agenda. Today's legislation, which is still in force and will remain in force today, is stricter if Parliament does not vote today to amend it. Compared to that, the political accusation you're making, let's just say, can't be true because today we have to follow stricter rules. If we push this out, if I only accept this political dimension and see it as legitimate, then this government, let's just say, gives me more room for manoeuvre. I would conclude with this circle - and this is my conviction, and I would like to make it strictly clear for the record that this is my position and not the government's - that neither a poster nor any other public advertising medium adds to the built nor to the environmental heritage. So personally, I would be in favour of a procedure that definitively settles this issue in terms of not leaving such an opportunity, but it should be noted that other aspects have been taken into account. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-09-19-32	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Two-minute speeches will follow; first, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Congresswoman.
u2017-09-19-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Secretary, you must have misunderstood something. The simplified notification and the settlement image notification, i.e. between the two concepts, only the word "the notification" is the common engraving. But what do they have to do with each other, anyway? Basically, nothing. One is a concept without a construction authority procedure, replacing it, and the other is a licence existing in a regulation for the mayor, the municipality. I don't want to go into this right now, the only common ground I'd like to suggest is that by throwing the reins between the horses with the simplified announcement, the municipal obligation is a driver's license that corrects this story - that's one of them. But you didn't answer me what I said about the deadline changes. It's an old philosophical movement that quantitative changes are rapidly transforming into qualitative changes. That's what this is about. So if the deadline for something is exceeded by 31 December 2018, this is 14. § 2/b, the submission 4. In fact, Article 14 of the Act complements paragraph 2 (b) of the original Act. In para.7, that means that we really don't take the thing about protecting the entire settlement image seriously, we just take out a tiny piece of it, the advertisements, which are important, but not the story that defines the whole settlement image. On the other hand, you're telling me what opportunities the mayors have been given, and they'll be able to decide on the spot. Please respectfully, no; because this is absolutely regulated in the Government Decree, and they must, in practice, be transferred and applied to their own regulation. No weighing. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-09-19-34	Thank you, Madam Secretary, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman László Varga for two minutes.
u2017-09-19-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Just to make it clear: there is indeed a stricter time limit for the specific issue today. This is 7:00. § amends this to 15 February. I was just saying and saying that, in terms of advertising and advertising media, this deadline is a deadline that will otherwise put into effect the relevant provisions for the election campaign. Therefore, since it was clear that the deadlines could not be met in the context of the ongoing amendment of the Law on the Protection of the City Picture, a deadline was set here, which would allow the entry into force of the Law at that time; not 1 February, not 1 March, but 15 February. That's what I said. It is clear that the current deadline is otherwise unsustainable to enter into force, in this respect it is more stringent, but 15 February is clearly linked to the campaign period. Thank you very much.
u2017-09-19-36	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bányai for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2017-09-19-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to clarify a few questions for Congressman Varga. The deadline amendment will allow the MSZP to place advertising platforms on various advertising sites by 15 February. So we'll make it easier if we don't have enough posters for the Honourable MSZP. But 50 percent of the settlements do this regulation work, so believe me, if the Prime Minister's Office has assessed this, most settlements will do it and do it by 1 October. It is very important to clarify that the municipalities which have adopted a municipal regulation cannot dispute the quality and content of advertising on the advertising platform. Let me get this straight. The mayor can't say who's about to abuse who from 15 February or later in the campaigns. I would like to say to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs that it was time to create it, a year has passed since 16:00. So whoever wanted it could create it, even if he had money, even if he didn't, because now he's got the support. The regulation itself, the manual itself, after more expensive and larger work for many, we supported it, but the municipal government was given the opportunity to push it out. The fact that the residents did not participate, the citizens in these municipal regulation-making community forums or even in public hearings, is not the law's fault. The third thought is whether we want a political slaughter. Please, the local construction regulations will not be abolished. They are alive, the municipal image protection regulation must be coherent with the previous one. I don't think you can talk about slaughter here, and you shouldn't look down on our town leaders because they don't want to go out with a plank, they don't want to interfere with things you've suggested. And believe me, they take care of the built heritage of the settlements, most of the mayors will take care of it, take care of it. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2017-09-19-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. No one's come forward to speak. I therefore give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény for two minutes, MSZP. [[10.40]]
u2017-09-19-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We are talking about technical issues here in practice, about the date of entry into force and what times this law changes, even though we all know what the original law was about. It was about the fact that Fidesz, Orbán's media machine, Habony - no matter who we call it - just didn't like the possibility that there were giant posters in settlements where propaganda couldn't be carried out properly by the government. That's what the original bill was about. The fact that Fidesz brought this in very, very quickly and very quickly, let's just say on the legislative agenda, I think it is a mockery of legislation in the classic sense of the word, but it proves that, as quickly as it was brought in, they now realize that it did not create dates and entry into force properly, so they brought it back to the House quickly and as quickly as the original bill was adopted and pushed through, they are doing so with this bill. At the same time, the opposition said, in my view, that it was a complete version of why it was not good, why it was wrong, and now, let's just say we are massaging the same material, again, as I said, a mockery of legislation. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-09-19-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman János Volner, Jobbik.
u2017-09-19-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is not the first time the government has introduced the issue of public advertising to the Parliament, and so far practically every time we look back over the past years, it can be said that every time it had its own technical considerations in the background. It is just a brief historical overview of what they have done in this area, and then we can already put the question in context, how slyly they have tried to constantly change the advertising market in accordance with their own power interests. For example, for example, some of the public advertisements created here, the advertisements mounted on electric columns, were the government's idea that advertisements mounted on electric columns were dangerous and should therefore be banned. At the time, there was still the power-technical consideration that Viktor Orbán and Lajos Simicska hugged each other, Lajos Simicska filled Viktor Orbán with money, helped him to win another election and become Prime Minister in Hungary. Therefore, Fidesz's government machine, confirming with the MPs here, killed the Spanish-owned company, ESMA, with a noble simplicity, in order for Lajos Simicska's company to be more involved in the advertising market, because it was in Fidesz's interest. After ESMA's value was reduced and these public advertisements were banned, Viktor Orbán's second issue was published, Lőrince Mészáros, István Garancsi. You know, the good man who is practically involved in everything from the gas business, through the stadium constructions, and makes billions of dollars on everything is less popular than Lőrinc Mészáros, because there is an even more obvious angle out of the bag, but still, the Second Ripper for the Prime Minister. And then this Garancsi István buys himself into this advertising company called ESMA, and after he buys himself, the government discovers, by some miracle, that these public advertising media are not so dangerous, so they should be authorised. Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, This kind of acquisition is possible in third world countries, in shameful dictatorships behind God's back. You will do this here, in the middle of Europe, and will continue to do so in 2017. That's why I think you're quite welcome to be ashamed of yourself. I'm gonna keep going, by the way, 'cause you're moving on, too. What has happened in this regard? First they figured out that after G-day and your boss got into a fight with Lajos Simicska, that it would be a bad time for Fidesz to be in anger with Simicska, if Simicska - I note, who, by the way, formed his media portfolio based on public advertising with a few fidesz backwinds - might turn against Fidesz, so they started banning political advertising. In addition, an attempt was made to limit these by passing by a half parliamentary majority legislation which, of course, was subject to a two-thirds parliamentary mandate by the Fundamental Law. In this, regardless of parties, regardless of party standing, all constitutional lawyers agreed that this was a clear violation of the Fundamental Law. And János Áder, who is in principle President of the Republic, has proved that not the President of the Republic, who is above the parties, who is independent in carrying out his duties as guardian of the law, but the man of Fidesz has continued to sign this poster law without any special consideration and otherwise, and in this way the law could be enforced. Now, after they realize that this will still not be enough, because we have not been able to completely eliminate the billboards with political content, they are trying to put another such small barrier into the spokes with this rule to prevent the placement of public billboards or other advertising media in this way. Ladies and gentlemen. What this government allows itself in Central Europe, I repeat, is a method typical of the shameful dictatorships of the third world. It's a real gangster campaign, controlled by white-collar criminals sitting in government power and helping us out with your help. Shame on you. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-19-42	Thank you very much. I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the floor. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Secretary Csepreghy.
u2017-09-19-43	Mr President, Allow me to split my answer into two parts. On the one hand, with regard to substantive matters, I would also like to respond to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs in so far as she is not right that if the municipalities do not prepare their handbook by 31 December, nothing will happen, since then the government's obligation will enter. So what happens then is that the settlement, who does not comply with this obligation, transfers this right to the government office, who, in cooperation with the county head builder, must prepare this manual and enter into force instead of the one to be prepared by the settlement. If this does not happen, then this will follow, so they do not have the opportunity to change the deadline. To the contribution of the MSZP, which Mr Zsolt Légény said: I would like to note to the Member that if we talk about anything in the area of heritage conservation and construction, the MSZP should be kept quiet, because I think that between 2002-2010, only if I mention the locations in Budapest, for which they were answerable in the same way as the current government is now responsible, look at what they did to Kossuth Square. Specifically, the nation's parking lot has been corrupted into the nation's main square. Look what they did to the Castle Garden Bazaar. In particular, Gyurcsány and the investment circles associated with your ex-president wanted to turn them into malls, and until then you have rotted the building complex that the current Fidesz government was able to save at the last minute after 2010. I propose to the Member, although I am not an advisor to the MSZP, that if they were to do a little more work on the merits, they would read legislative proposals instead of reading the various rules of the Prime Minister's casting, then perhaps they would have time for the electorate to send you here to represent them in the legislative work. If you've already found your current Prime Minister's candidate, maybe it'll give you time to sort things out. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: We should also react!]] In the case of Jobbik, Congressman Volner, allow me to add that there has been much to see in the walls of this House since 1990, it has been a rare occasion for you to lie down under Lajos Simicska due to the lack of money or perhaps the love of money. Since there is no lobbying law in Hungary such as, say, other Western European countries, Lajos Simicska decided not to hire lobbyists in particular, but to buy a party for himself and send it to the National Assembly. In that regard, I think they deserve their wages. I don't know how much money Lajos Simicska pays you as a supplement, but I think that this activity, even if it's not effective, could be enough to satisfy their master. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-19-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, After the consolidated debate is closed, I would like to indicate that the decisions will take place today. And now I'm going to take a break, starting work with decisions at the earliest 12 o'clock. (Recess: 10.50-12.05) President: István Jakab Note: Dr. István Tiba and István Szávay)
u2017-09-19-45	Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. We are now continuing our work with resolutions on the agenda. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats and check that their cards have been placed in the voting machine. It follows that H/1739 on condemning and taking action against the law-breaking Ukrainian educational law. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision and the final vote. I would remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the motion for a resolution will be discussed by Parliament with a derogation from house rules. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment H/1739/2. H/17379/3 and its summary report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that, in derogation from the adopted house rules, there is no possibility to maintain a proposal amending the decision and to request a separate vote. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts H/1739/2. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the summary amendment by 169 votes in favour. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/1739. The text of the proposal for a decision, as amended by the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the amended resolution proposal by 170 votes in favour. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Next up is the 2016 LXXIV on the protection of the settlement image. Act LXXIV of 2016 on the protection of the urban image. CLXXIV of 2016 amending Act No. T/17312 amending Act No. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. T/17312/4. T/17312/5 and T/17312/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the provisions of the House Rules, there is no possibility to maintain a proposal amending the decision and to request a separate vote. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/17312/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 121 votes to 49, without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/17312. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amended bill by 121 votes in favour, 49 against and without abstentions. Following the amendment of Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code is T/17383 on increasing the limitation period for corruption offences. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I would like to remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be discussed by Parliament with a derogation from house rules. T/17383/3 of the Legislative Committee's proposal for a summary amendment T/17383/4. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that, in derogation from the adopted house rules, there is no possibility to maintain a proposal amending the decision and to request a separate vote. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/17383/3. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the summary amendment by 169 votes in favour. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/17383 accepts it. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the amended bill by 170 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. Thank you for your cooperation. [[It's a short break.]] [[12.10]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. Members who cannot participate in further work here in this Chamber because of an urgent public task, please leave the Chamber quietly. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Next, the 1990 XCIII on levies. A general debate on the draft law amending Law No X of 2006 on cooperatives until closure. Presentation by representatives of Lajos Kósa and Sándor Czomba Fidesz T/17315. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kósa, the author of the item on the agenda. Congressman, you have the floor. I would like to ask my fellow Members once again to take their seats.
u2017-09-19-46	Mr. President. Dear House, The amendment to the tax law before us is integral to the measure taken by Parliament in the spring to establish pensioners' cooperatives. At the time and many times since then, we have said that we are extremely sorry that the opposition has not supported the whole matter. In fact, everyone in the opposition has consistently rejected the idea of creating the possibility for pensioners, for those who want to do something actively, to create a flexible form of work based solely on volunteering, which they are willing to do, which is completely autonomous, only depends on the pensioners' own decision on how it works. That is where we took out the model of a pensioner-cooperative, and we did not come up with it from nothing, because from 2010 onwards, the Fidesz fraction and I have also changed the legislation on student cooperatives in a lot of places so that it does not mess with the EU's eyes too much. Because, as we know, there is legislation on the angle of inclination of Polish cucumber in the EU, but strangely, there is no EU co-operative directive. The EU thinks only on the basis of the Labour Code, which is laid down in the Employment Directives. But as a Hungaricum, student associations have set a good example of how we can offer students and now pensioners with full autonomy. The success of the student cooperative model speaks for itself, 60 percent of students are co-operative members, 135 thousand students work, and last year they had more than 46 billion sales. This is already noticeable and significant in economic terms. The success of this model has led us to create this opportunity for pensioners as well. Retirementes are not some kind of dependency layer that can only think about life by being a pensioner. What we see is that pensioners are a huge opportunity and a resource for the country, and we want to give pensioners as much as possible an opportunity for activity. This was the case that the opposition clearly and unanimously rejected. Of course, there can always be malfunctioning elements in all systems, and there are villains everywhere who may abuse opportunities. We know, for example, in the school cooperative model, Csaba Czeglédy, who, by the way, was the head of the MSZP municipal faction in Szombathely, and, as we know, the party's lawyer; MSZP and DK jointly relied on and trusted him, stole the money of thousands of students. Students also applied to Student Services because quite simply Mr. Czeglédy operated the model that the MSZP, as we know, supported the fact that he had his student associations undertake the work at a very low cost. [[It's constant, it's loud.]] Of course, Mr. Czeglédy is still being protected by the MSZPs, there is nothing surprising about this because they have their own lawyer and their black money in Mr. Czeglédy's hands. [[Anita Beringes: How do you know that, Louis?]] In any case, regardless of whether these phenomena may of course be such, I think that the student cooperative system has shown itself what strength it has. I very much hope that the pensioner cooperative system will be equally successful. [[12.20]] At the same time, when Parliament thought about this, perhaps because of our carelessness, but did not amend the Law on Charges, and the Law on Charges has already made limited liability companies, i.e. private companies, public companies, deposit companies and social cooperatives, but not pensioners' associations, duty free. How's life? Ten pensioners come together, they form a pensioner's cooperative, they want to work on something else, they fulfill the thousand HUF financial contribution, they go to the corporate court, and they are told that it is very good, here the certificate for 10,000 HUF, but there is still 100,000 HUF to be paid in connection with the procedure. Now, in order to eliminate this anomaly, I propose that we abolish this obligation to pay a levy, and I propose that the fees that have already been paid to pensioners' cooperatives who have done so should be repaid by more than twenty now. This is a small thing, it does not affect the state's revenue in any way, as there was no pensioner cooperative before, so the non-existent pensioner cooperative could not pay a levy. About twenty pensioners who have made this payment so far can safely be referred back to them. In view of the fact that the scheme itself is such that the pensioner-cooperative is free of social and health contributions in relation to the personal contribution of the owners, the pensioner performing the work must pay only a child, nothing else, the pension should remain paid to the pensioners. I believe that it is still obvious that, as the whole system is launched, budget revenue will not be generated to a significant extent. This is the gesture I propose that Parliament should do for pensioners' cooperatives, and if the socialists want to ease their apparently poor consciences a little bit, I would ask you to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-19-47	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary, whether he wishes to speak on behalf of the Government now or at a later stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] Mr State Secretary points out that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Sándor Czomba, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-09-19-48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The most important information has been provided by the authors. The Fidesz fraction has also supported the coat in the previous period, i.e. the basic law, the one that we are now here to amend. The creation of pensioners' cooperatives of general interest and the creation of a law on this issue, I think, was an extremely important task for Parliament, and that life will prove in the coming months and years how well this construction worked. I can see from my narrower Patria, from Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County that there is constant interest, not only in metropolitan areas, but also in my narrower environment. There is an interest in cooperatives, and this interest also comes from the work side in this short period of time, so I am quite certain that it is a successful construction. It is a button that is now ahead of us, since I mentioned the coat earlier, an important button, I think, because if we agree on the goals and say that it is important to help and support pensioners in this way, then we cannot artificially create other obstacles to the establishment of pensioners' cooperatives, and this HUF 100,000 is a major obstacle to the establishment of such a cooperative. And it would be totally unfair, I think, if almost all other forms - kft., bt. - registration is free, and that is exactly what a cooperative based on volunteering would put any obstacles there. So, like the fundamental law, the Fidesz faction has very much supported this amendment, and I ask the opposition parties to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-19-49	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The MSZP group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-09-19-50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, The Parliament is T/155558. It made it possible to set up social cooperatives of general interest. This bill was rejected by MSZP, taking into account the following arguments. The pensioners did not agree with him, so the President of the National Association of Years and the President of the National Representation of Pensioners did not agree with him either. VOSZ, representing the interests of employers, rejected the bill, as the vice-president of the Hungarian Trade Union Association found it amazing. It is unacceptable for pensioners to be employed in such a way that they can receive food vouchers, aids or cooked food instead of money for their work. This is both humanly, morally and morally unacceptable and humiliating. I could also say that you created the law of modern slavery for pensioners. Since their work has been considered by the government to be of general interest, they may be granted support. But on what grounds, who, according to what criteria, to what extent, is left in the hands of the government. Another great opportunity to drain EU funds. My fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kósa, did not, in some interesting way, talk about Flórian Farkas, talk about the case of ETUSZ, talk about the matter of Roland Mengyi. My fellow Member is so selective about what is happening in Hungary today that it is a miracle to listen. In the final vote of the bill, the entire opposition voted against, which was strongly criticised by Jobbik, the LMP and the Együttt, all opposition parties. Maybe there really is a mistake in this law. The bill just submitted would also exempt the founders from the registration procedure's fee of HUF 100,000. However, there are two important points to be made in this regard. It's not or doesn't necessarily benefit pensioners. The first set-ups were initiated by persons operating student associations, not pensioners, Mr. Congressman, because they have sufficient experience and a network of contacts with companies. The current law does not remove the provision that pensioners entering as members have to pay a financial contribution, which is usually the symbolic amount of HUF 1000, so the tax exemption is not directly proportional to the pensioner's return of the member's fee that he paid. In the light of the data, 19 pensioners' cooperatives are currently established, and my fellow Member will talk about this, and about the same number can be under registration. In Hungarian, that burden does not hinder the creation of cooperatives, so we can see that this 100 thousand HUF deposit will not prevent pensioners' cooperatives that multiply into mushroom mode. At the same time, it is noteworthy that in the registration procedures still pending on the date of entry into force of the law, the levy should also be repaid to the parties concerned. My fellow Member said that he would propose that the person who has founded it should also have the 100 thousand forints back. We do not understand why this proposal should be supported by the opposition. I think that in the same way that we have not supported the law itself, we will not support this either. I have seen you take notes, Mr Kósa, and I hope you will answer the questions about Flórian Farkas at the time, the case of ETUSZ, and the scandals of the Fidesz cooperative in recent years. Don't speak selectively in this Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2017-09-19-51	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes, another lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-09-19-52	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, That's where the horse's foot hangs out, as well as the horse's foot hangs out in their basic bill, that they've turned this bill on themselves and created retired social cooperatives. [[12.30]] And that's where the horse's foot hangs out, that we put forward an amendment to prevent a pensioner's union from being founded by a person who is the founder or owner of a student union. 'Cause I could feel it from the beginning when the horse's foot was hanging out. You swept this off the table, because we can see that you wanted to give your friends a career, especially as we see it, especially to friends of Lajos Kósa. You forget to explain the fact, as my colleague said, that the first cooperatives were indeed created by the leaders and founders of student labour organisations. We don't even realize when this bill was presented, and we had to find people to support it. Interestingly, the man who stood up and supported it with great heat and said that it was very well done is Lajos Kósa, the president of the Hungarian National Skating Federation in which this gentleman is a member of the presidency. He stood up as an independent man and said there was no better idea on the table. And then they are the ones who basically set up the first cooperatives. Now they're going to put in a proposal for an amendment to cancel the funds they're going to set up for them. They're not paying attention to pensioners, they're not paying attention to pensioners, they're paying attention to people who were supposed to put a little money into this, so they can take out pensioners, because that's what this is about. Let's look at the facts. Today, if a pensioner working in a retired social cooperative goes back to work like this, through the cooperative, he earns, say, 730 HUF an hour in the automotive industry. 730 forints! As long as this pensioner goes back to work, he can earn HUF 2000-2500 in the same area. And then your pension could rise by 0.5 percent a year, which, of course, is not a big deal, but regardless, if you really thought that you wanted to help pensioners and make these pensioners active, you could make the work of pensioners free of charge. That would be helpful. Not to create a cooperative opportunity for friends, in which they can continue to exploit them as well as the students, as well as the pensioners. Because it was you who excluded students from the Code of Work. They took the same licenses that would have protected their work. But as we know, Lajos Kósa was one of the presenters of this proposal, we are not even surprised that he helped his friends out here, helped them in everything, set up this retirement social society, and I think there will be some things that they will help each other in, for example, when opposition representatives and opposition politicians may have to be bullied, then they will be the ones who will stand up at a press conference every single time, they will be upset as independent people, as friends of Lajos Kósa. Thank you very much.
u2017-09-19-53	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-09-19-54	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to respond to what the two MSZP speakers have said in connection with their keynote speech. One is that the levy is not the same as the cooperative membership fee. Pensioners' cooperatives are set up with a voluntary association of members, which means that those who want to associate must join this pensioner's cooperative as members of a cooperative, and this means that they will also become owners. That is why they pay that thousand forints, this symbolic amount, so that they can create the cooperative itself in a partnership of owners. The 100 000 HUF levy itself would have been the company procedure fee itself, this tribute, which would be abolished by the present bill on the basis of the presentation of Mr. Group leader. Ladies and Gentlemen, Due to the good economic policy governance of Fidesz-KDNP, so many new jobs have been created in Hungary that we are slowly beginning to find that there is a shortage of labour in Hungary, so it is of particular importance that pensioners with significant experience in life and work can re-use themselves in the domestic labour market. More than 2 million pensioners live in our country, and all those who once again feel the strength to work offer very favourable conditions for pensioners' cooperatives, an opportunity to get back to work. So it is not a question, Congresswoman, that anyone here wants to exploit anyone, but that pensioners do not have to pay health or pension contributions after their income earned through the cooperative, but only the 15 percent personal income tax. Ladies and Gentlemen, The T/17315. The aim of the proposal is to create the same situation as regards the exemption from the levy on registration procedures, between the social cooperative, the limited liability company, the individual company, the public supply company, the deposit company and the public pensioner cooperative; which means, in particular, what I have just said, that they do not have to pay the procedural fee for registration of a company of HUF 100,000. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, the Christian Democrats support the bill. Please support me. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-19-55	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sebestyén, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-09-19-56	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, To put it mildly, what we have heard from Congressman Kósa as an author is that we, the opposition, would have been the ones who wanted to be wheel ties for pensioners to get a job, because it was you who took away the right from pensioners to take a job with a pension. And not only in the light of this speech, it was impertinent, but this measure was brazen anyway, especially when it comes to taking away the opportunity from pensioners, in particular, in emptiness. I'm looking at my own specialty, I'm looking at the social field. Many institutions were in a very difficult situation with regard to their action at that time. Many leaders with tremendous experience had to leave their seats overnight without even being able to lead this institution with a calm conscience. They have freed the profession, the social profession, from such valuable knowledge, but other professions could also be mentioned within the public sector, which has put in jeopardy, in many cases, not only institutions, but also the functioning of services. So, in view of this, it is quite impertinent what you have said in your speech or in your speech as a speaker. It was you who denied pensioners the opportunity to work in addition to retirement. Of course, given the recent processes and the law that will enter into force in the summer, we already know what was the driving force behind it, taking into account the law that is currently intended to be amended. This was not a driving force to give young people the opportunity to work, because unfortunately, you are young people through their unblessed economic activities and through the established dictatorship. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre sneezes.]] My fellow Member, Mr Csaba Gyüre, confirmed that, through their unblessed activities, young people had long been driven abroad. In many areas, because of the lack of careers, many people have fled abroad, especially if we even consider that they are trying to prevent even our wage Union efforts, so I wouldn't help turn this process around, even if they put a shovel on it, to further strengthen it. So, not only did they not achieve this, but they put a lot of institutions and a lot of old people in an impossible position next to it, and they also made a bed for the buddy dog in this law to create cooperatives in the introduction of a new tribute. By the way, the rush to establish this law proves that it has been a few months since its entry into force, and it has already been discovered that something is wrong in this system and that this bill needs to be amended already. Then we voted against this law, and we voted against this law on the basis of my previous reasoning, because we considered it impertinent that they had taken a driver's license from pensioners and then tried to give it back to them under such conditions, instead of giving them the same stroke of a pen as giving them the right to take a job. Here, I'd like to make a parentheses comment. In the public sector, the right to work in addition to pensions was removed from those retired, with the exception of one area, and this is the situation of Members of Parliament. [[12.40]] In the case of Members of Parliament, they have retained the possibility that, in addition to the pension, they should actually carry out work and work. So instead of re-establishing the original state by a pen stroke, so that as a full-fledged employee, these people could work with a pension, decent people, gray people at work, instead they brought in this system, which actually offered a corruption opportunity to create buddy cooperatives. There could be actual examples, even examples of a school cooperative, but, as the speakers before me have said, social cooperative examples could be listed, which in many cases relate to the name of Flórian Farkas. So it shows the weakness of the law, not only is this law morally unstable, but, as you can see, from a codification point of view, because it must already be amended. So we do not agree with the basic law itself, but we agree with the ambition that, if you have forced pensioners into such a situation, that if you want to take up a job, you can only have the opportunity to work in such a system, and we agree that, as far as possible, we should help these cooperatives to establish them, we should facilitate the creation of these cooperatives. Once again, if we do not agree with the basic law itself, we will support this amendment in the vote. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-19-57	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2017-09-19-58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The LMP supports any proposal that reduces the costs of setting up a company. It follows that we will also support this bill. Making the registration of the company court free of charge, which is currently a cost of HUF 100 thousand, we believe that it is also a justified step in the case of pensioners' cooperatives in the public interest. However, we would like to add and add that tax is not the largest item in the establishment of companies and cooperatives, but other additional costs, such as representation of a lawyer and other administrative obligations, should also be considered. In the case of pensioners' cooperatives of general interest, it is important to focus on a few things. Although the government claims that it is about promoting pensioners' access to income and employment in connection with the establishment of pensioners' cooperatives, it is in fact a much more prosaic reason why the form of pensioner's cooperative was proposed by law by the government and by the Fidesz majority. What we see is that the government simply wants to alleviate labour shortages with pensioners and provide cheap labour to foreign companies. If, in fact, the aim was to better appreciate the workforce and knowledge of pensioners, the government would not have made their employment in the public sector impossible, or would have lifted this austerity. Let us remember that in 2013, as part of one of the Matolcsy austerity packages, the government adopted the forced retirement of people who reached retirement age and, in the event of further employment, the legislation prohibiting double benefits. They wanted to save a few ten billion forints on pensioners by taking away their dues for decades of work. It was a hard-core austerity measure that the government has never withdrawn. Now, however, as the situation has changed and it is seen that there is a need for labour, as there is a significant shortage of workers, pensioners suddenly come to mind. They're talking about a million retired jobs. At the same time, pensioners in the public interest want to create temporary workers with virtually a national network that then transmits pensioners, typically for retail or automotive work offered by multinationals. In good times, pensioners' cooperatives in the public interest can really contribute to the economic activity and activation of pensioners, which can, of course, be good for the people concerned and for the economy, but there is a fear that they will want to fill the jobs with pensioners left empty by Hungarians travelling abroad because of bad salaries and low-quality work. So it is feared that this is not about the greater appreciation of retired people, but about their placement in minimum wage jobs. And pensioners are lucky to have some income along with their small pension. This seems to be supported by the fact that according to the first news, the job offers of retail companies for pensioners relate to jobs where they would pay 733 HUF per hour, i.e. minimum wage. The same is the case at Audi's factory in Győr, where pensioners would be hired for an hourly minimum of 926 HUF. Since members of pensioners' cooperatives are subject to tax only after their work, they can keep more of the wage. However, this is not a significant difference, and it may also have an impact, and this should also be considered in advance, so that it will push down wages or at least eliminate wage pressures, which we know has been caused by labour shortages, and so that the rise in wages can stop, which would otherwise be very necessary for wages to grow much more dynamicly in Hungary if we do not want people to go to work abroad. This is only good for those multi-enterprises that want to alleviate labour shortages without forced wage increases. In this, we see that they have found a partner in the government, which has been and where it may have been, only in their interest. Retirementists - we are also sure - are no longer dreaming of slanting over factory assembly tapes in their old age, installing car parts, or being loaders at Tesco. The knowledge and experience of the elderly over a lifetime could be better appreciated, for example, by allowing them to continue to work in their profession, for example as teachers or nurses, family caregivers, small children educators, or by not forcing them to choose between pensions and salaries. This would be a better way to value pensioners if they could actually pass on their existing knowledge to younger generations. We therefore expect the government to take the following steps if it really is to give greater respect to older people, involve them in socially beneficial activities, strengthen solidarity between generations and encourage active ageing. We have a five-point proposal for this, and we have summarised in five points how to really involve pensioners in the labour market. Firstly, it is extremely important to abolish the rules restricting the employment of pensioners. Cancel forced retirement and the ban on double benefits in the public sector. The government should not punish those who want to continue working when they are retired, because they have also earned their pension, they have been entitled to it, they have paid their contributions for decades, which means they are entitled to the pension. No discrimination should be imposed on public sector workers against those working in the competitive sector. Due to the lack of staff in the education, health and social sector, it is also necessary to open the way for experienced pensioners. Secondly, pre-age beneficiaries can also work without restrictions. Under the current rules, the earnings of recipients of pre-age benefits must not exceed the annual envelope, 18 times the minimum wage, which is equal to one and a half times the minimum wage at the monthly level. If you exceed this amount, you will be suspended for the rest of the year. According to the LMP, this restrictive regulation should also be abolished. Also, don't punish working disabled people. Especially strict criminal rules apply to people receiving invalid and rehabilitation care. If their earnings exceed one and a half times the minimum wage for three consecutive months, they shall cease to be entitled to benefits. This restriction should also be abolished. Fourthly, there is also a particularly adverse regulation for people who have taken up work during their previous disability pension. [[12.50]] Their work with contributions during the disability pension years is not recognised as a period of service for the establishment of pension rights. This involves a lot of people, not taking into account years of work, even though the pension contribution was paid. This is simply unacceptable, and it is unbelievable that this can happen, and this regulation must also be changed. Finally, for the fifth time, we believe that not only with pensioners' cooperatives, but also in many other ways, work alongside pensions should be encouraged, labour law benefits should be granted, or, for example, an approach to active ageing, promoting solidarity between generations, contemporary support programmes, and it could continue. We believe that, if the government takes these proposals, there is a real need to change the way pensioners can take part in today's labour shortages in an esteemed way, and this should also change the situation of pensioners. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-09-19-59	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Independent Members shall not take part in the debate. We will now continue the debate. I give the floor to Mr Péter Cseresnyés, Secretary of State, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-19-60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us proposes to amend two laws: on the one hand, it amends the Law on Charges and on the other hand, the Law on Cooperatives. The aim of the bill is to ensure that the procedure for registering pensioners' cooperatives in the public interest is exempt from the registration levy currently of HUF 100 thousand. The exemption would also apply to procedures already in place at the time of the entry into force of the law. If the levy was paid in these proceedings, the State tax authority would refund the court-martial fee of its own motion within 30 days of the notification of the court's order on the refund. The purpose of the amendment is therefore to make the registration procedure free of charge in addition to the social cooperative in respect of pensioners' cooperatives of general interest. The Government agrees with the introduction of a tax exemption for the registration of pensioners' cooperatives of general interest, since the favourable tax rules facilitate the establishment and functioning of pensioners' cooperatives of general interest. It is important that the loss of budget revenue in the case of the motion is minimal, it is HUF 100,000 per company registration, while the waiver of revenue is in the public interest. The extension of the favourable tax rule to pending cases is neither objectionable nor fair. However, the objective set out in the motion is also in line with the favourable tax rules in force in connection with the registration of companies, which provide for a tax exemption for non-profit social cooperatives and for the registration of profit-oriented limited liability companies, individual companies, public firms and deposit companies, thus facilitating the efficient and effective functioning of those entities for the national economy. The bill therefore creates the same situation as regards the exemption of the registration procedure between the social cooperative and pensioners' cooperatives of general interest. The government is still of the opinion that a pensioner cooperative of general interest, as a new form of employment, could be a tool for solving problems of an employment and social policy nature. Employment through a pensioner's cooperative indirectly contributes to ensuring that the knowledge, professional experience and life experience of persons receiving an old-age pension is not wasted, but is used in the economy in the field of services. The pensioner cooperative is also an opportunity for our senior countrymen to find a new form of knowledge, professional experience and complement their income by completing their active careers. We believe that by ensuring tax exemption, work through pensioners' cooperatives will be broadened, thus reducing the pressure on the labour market, replacing the expertise and expertise often lacking by practice. We hope that the practice will also confirm the achievement of the objective of the pensioner cooperative of general interest. Dear Parliament, In addition to the tax law, the bill also amends the law on cooperatives. The amendment of the law on cooperatives is due to technical clarification and does not substantially change the regulation. According to the government, the bill is fair to pensioners' cooperatives of general interest and is therefore fully in line with government efforts. I ask you to support this bill, which is also supported by the government, by adopting it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-19-61	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group.
u2017-09-19-62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First, I would like to make two brief comments, and then I would like to participate more in the debate. I would like to open the discussion by saying to my fellow Member, Kósa, that those who join the pensioner's cooperative as members pay a financial contribution, a financial contribution. They are the ones who work for an hourly fee of HUF 733. My friends, yours, those who call these organizations to life, they don't pay the fees. That's about what the story is about, and that's what your thinking is about: everything to your friends, and otherwise, let's pull all the skin off people who have the least resources. And then they talk about helping pensioners while they're being exploited while they're trying to put their own crimes in their place. More than 600,000 people have been driven out of this country with the economic policies they have been doing in the last two cycles, and apparently there are no more tangible people or few who can perform the tasks. So now, let's retiring and retiring for 733 HUF an hour. It's forced labour supply, not help. If you want to provide help, it could be done in a completely different way, and then I will talk about how and how. But in order not to have to go on this coercive course, it would be necessary to give people basically resources to make a living. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] which would bring with it the integrity of pensions. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-09-19-63	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group.
u2017-09-19-64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was hoping that I would have other fellow Members, including the government side, who would speak, and that we could talk a little bit about it, and that we would not have one-sided positions. If that's the story, I'll tell you in the first round what I see and what I think about this story. I'm telling you, they're using these people. I could also say that you are pursuing a populous policy, not necessarily only against pensioners, but also in general against a multitude of working people. With a calm spirit, I could say, my fellow Members nod their heads here on the government side, but then I say just to be clear and clear: not only do people have to be fooled with higher minimum wage and similar sentences, but they have to remember the history of governance for the last seven and a half years, during which period - if I have already mentioned minimum wage, I say that it should be clear and clear - there were five years after the 2010 change of government when the minimum wage was less than in the previous year than in 2010. They stole from these people, and of course not just them, many others too, but let's not be particularly concerned with the public workers now, you know, who had 60 200 forints of money in 2010, and now, after seven and a half years, this means 53-54,000 forints. It's been seven years, and they're getting 7,000 forints net less money in their hands, that's your government. [[13.00]] I understand that it is uncomfortable and uncomfortable, so they don't like to hear it much anymore, but they talk to each other about former State Secretarys and current actors, because everything I said in the above headlines is related to your policy. Of course, what do the Fidesz and the Christian Democrats talk about in their keynote speeches? Good economic policy. The result of good economic policy is not that hundreds of thousands of people leave the country, more than 600,000 people, not that the population of Hungary is falling by 200,000 people, let's say during the last two cycles. No! It's not the result, it's the result of people staying here, people earning decent income, not gross, no, tangible net, which is relatively more than, say, eight years ago. This should be it. But you didn't bring this, you didn't bring this to life, you're calling a retirement association for a fee of HUF 773 per hour. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Look, we don't need pensioners for this, no. We simply need measures to provide benefits to all employers of pensioners in terms of the employment of pensioners, resulting in their employee, pensioner, earning much more from the 733 HUF hourly rate they offer within these limits. Then everyone is okay, then the employer is okay, because, through discounts, the pensioner's employment costs less, and the pensioner is okay, because he can earn not 733 forints, but 1500 or more for the same job. It is not for the metastases, not for the intermediate forms of organization, that free money should be provided, not for the mates, but for those who produce a product, and for those of the active ages, even as pensioners, who take part in this situation, can, can, can, have their health, intentions, and much more. If I wanted to sum up this issue with a sentence, I could say that the employment of a pensioner should be supported globally, generally in a manner that provides benefits to employers and gives more to the employee in terms of the outcome. No, that's not what you're doing. You come up with intermediate forms of organization, within which your friends can swim well. There are a number of examples of this, as here the issue of the ETUSZ was formulated, whether in terms of the name of Flórian Farkas and many others, the cases that took place in front of you have taken place before each of us in the last few years, where you can clap up 1600 million forints of money, and then the government will stand up in a good sense and another 1300 million forints, if I remember correctly, to get away with the story without major scandals. Well, you can do that, it's just it's not about the people, it's about the buddies and the partners who might be in the benches of the Fidesz. No, it's not about protecting friends, it's not about supporting friends, it's about providing working people with conditions and opportunities that create a situation that makes it worth their time to work for them. Student associations? Retirement cooperatives? A person in terms of founding? My fellow Member, Mr Heringes, said that we had an amendment which was about not being able to do so; obviously it was not random. My fellow Member Kósa and his fidesz or Christian representatives behind him have so generously jumped through this story, no, it is not a coincidence. I take it there's something involved in this story that has created a barrier, a barrier to even thinking about taking this proposal into account. I could say with a calm spirit, it's impolite what they're doing. It's impolite, because they're trying to make all this story look like they're giving us an opportunity to do something good while they exploit me, while, once again, they exploit me through friends. In the last seven to seven and a half years, you have done that the possibility of working alongside a pension has been limited, quasi-punished. It has been reduced, especially in the public sector, by the possibility of a pension or by the loss of a pension. They set limits for people and created processes where they tried to fire people of value who could be used when they reached retirement age, from teachers to doctors, when in Hungary only more than 350 GPs are missing from the system. A few years ago, by reaching the age of 65, you were paired with kicking him out, forcing these people not to engage in work. It took social pressure and political pressure to change this situation. In the world of work, temporary employment is always the surface, the segment that, in a sense, increases the potential for vulnerability and increases risks for the worker. Increasing vulnerability and increasing risk are also associated with an increase in work accidents. Just to make it clear and clear to you that, in these seven and a half years, the policy that you have been pursuing has come back to you in this regard, but I will also tell you what was in front of you. After 2002, the number of work accidents decreased by more than 40 percent by 2011. In the period between 2011 and 17 and the 6-7 years behind us, it increased by more than 30 percent. You know what I mean? In those eight years you referred to as the curse, there was a 40 percent reduction in the number of work accidents, and in these six to seven years there was a more than 30 percent increase in the number of work accidents. This obviously consists of a multitude of such measures, or we could go back to the content of the Labour Code measures adopted on 1 January 2012, which have once again increased vulnerability, but even in terms of the expected forms of employment within the framework of pensioners' cooperatives, in terms of labour law security, labour security, in accordance with the conditions provided for, or in relation to the dismantling of organisations controlling the scheme. I am not going to go into the details of these, but I just want to make it clear that the multitude of their actions is absolutely about the fact that you are not interested in man, but only in man. What interests you is the profit, the return, but only for the individual, not the social return; no, not what can be distributed within society among the individual people, among the crowd, but what can be distributed among the mates. The basic problems are here. If we want to use big words in terms of flexibility, then all the thinking that concerns the world of work should take place in such a way that, on the one hand, in addition to ensuring flexibility, the story should also include strengthening security. This isn't about that. It's not like that here either. Now they are not doing what should be done in this respect, but they are doing what is good for some people, for the benefit of some people. What I think is important to mention: when the issue of the formation of pensioners' organisations came to light, it is not a coincidence that many organisations, no matter which one I mention, considered the National Association for Years or the National Representation of Pensioners, but on the other hand, the National Association of Entrepreneurs or even one of the Vice-Presidents of the RADIO at the level of representation, did not consider this path to be right and good, based on the arguments that I have made in the former. Yes, because when you work, you know, they usually pay money, material goods, not food vouchers, aid, or uncooked food. It is humiliating and unacceptable. Or they do not provide the opportunity to distribute the products produced by the company that are brought to life among the employees - no, they give these people money and pay. [[13.10]] And there's another problem. They use the word "public alliances." When it comes to alliances of general interest, this obviously also creates the possibility of obtaining various amounts of aid through different forms of support. But to whom? - it's an immediate question. Who can you get it for? What's the basis for getting it? What criteria and criteria determine how access is granted, in what amounts? And who do we trust to decide everything? Well, to the government, right, as I read the bill. This sends me no message but to ensure that new EU funds and money can be seized through government decisions and many other platforms. You don't trust the goat with cabbage, do you? I think that, in this form, I would not leave to the government how and how, on what basis, on what basis, according to what criteria, to be used or awarded aid, because basically, they will serve nothing but what I have already said: the benefits to my friends. And one more thing. If we are already scratching and touching the labour market, you can see how you are always magical in the statistics pool by how many, how and how you work. The Prime Minister was not able to explain the situation in Hungary. Yesterday, here on the pulpit, he also used figures concerning people working in Hungary that did not correspond to reality. Either they don't put her in the picture, but they put her in a position of ignorance, or together, they lie to people's eyes on purpose. We should break up with this tradition. Mr. President. Thank you very much.
u2017-09-19-65	Welcome, fellow Members. I now give the floor to Anita Herring in a two-minute time frame.
u2017-09-19-66	Thank you very much for the floor. I am sorry that Lajos Kósa does not try to take part in the debate, to quater with his fellow Members, as he probably knows that we have a personalised legislation before us again, and he wants to put one of his friends and his circle of friends in a good position again. But we know about Lajos Kósa for a long time that pensioners are not important to him, because he even wanted their voting rights to be less valuable to pensioners than that of middle-aged people. [[Interventions from the benches of the governing parties, among other things: What?]] This was said by Lajos Kósa, who said that we should prevent the majority of older generations from deciding on our future. I think that says a lot about your opinion on pensioners. And the problem with this bill is that you do not want to help pensioners, you do not want to help them to work normally, because they will even deduct a food voucher from 733 forints and give it to you in a food voucher. These people would be paid 733 forints an hour. I think it's really not fair. They have one task: to properly appreciate the work of the people who are responsible for the fact that this country is so, in this situation. For you, it doesn't seem to matter. For you, it's an underrated age group. You can see that this proposal is all about one thing: friends, friends, nothing else. That is why Lajos Kósa is not seen, but only on TV, and he will never take part in this debate. He's gonna respond to us right now, and nothing else is gonna happen. Unfortunately, he thinks he can do anything. What I can say, my honourable fellow Member and fellow Members, is that you should pay close attention to the fact that Mr Mengyi also thought that he could do everything, and yet it turned out that personalised legislation and personalised requests always have their drawbacks. Thank you.
u2017-09-19-67	I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, if there is anyone else who would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I will ask the author if he wishes to comment on the debate. [[For signal:]] Congressman Lajos Kósa has the floor.
u2017-09-19-68	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, who are taking part in the debate. For 27 years, the agenda for debate in Parliament has been that the rapporteur will present his proposal to the House, the factions and the Members will discuss it, and at the end the author will end it. I did not go beyond this debate, so I did not participate in the debate for some reason to hide it. [[The intervention of Anita Herring.]] I would like to make my comments on the debate that it is good for this House to take into account before making its decision. I have to say that the debate has essentially been devoid of any subjective nature, and in particular the MSZP MEPs have set aside all the untruths. [[Anita Herring: Sure!]] Reality had nothing to do with what they said. I was thinking that the inexplicable malice of Csaba Czeglédy's soulless and unconscionable apology, who, through student associations, stole thousands of students' money for the benefit of the MSZP [[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP, including Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Flórian Farkas?]] or complete ignorance leads the MSZP. But I'll give you the answer: it's probably all three roles in saying things you've just heard here. [[Anita Beringes intervenes.]] Because the complete misunderstanding or conscious lie is that someone claims that pensioners can be paid in vouchers for personal work in the cooperative. 'Cause here's the thing, but now I'm gonna apologize to everyone who's, of course, a little more prepared than the MSZPs. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Oh, Lajos! Stop talking about preparation. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Don't talk about professionalism. Not about that.]] and, where appropriate, know more about the operation of cooperatives, but as a general rule, cooperatives operate in the same way as pensioners' cooperatives, so that a cooperative member is one vote, they pay the member's contribution - as a general rule, for example, the students agreed on a thousand forints - and their joint vote decides who will lead the pensioners' cooperative and what form they will receive in connection with the implementation of a business contract. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó's intervention. Anita Herring: 733 HUF per hour...]] So, of course, if the pensioner decides he wants money, he'll get money. If they decide and it is very important, not as a consideration for the service carried out for work, but as a pensioner's cooperative, because it is an economic enterprise, it is effective at the end of the year, and the members want this result to be split up, then after the pensioner's cooperative could also be taken out in the form of company profits, which would otherwise be subject to withholding tax. However, we have made it possible that if results are produced and if members decide to do so, this can be taken in a tax-free form. It's just an opportunity. So what my fellow Member Bangón said is not true, of course. He probably doesn't understand the functioning of the cooperative system, and these cooperatives are the least of what you might have seen with nostalgia in the Kadár times when comrades of the district party committee told us what was happening there. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: You know what was then! You were a member of...]] I think pensioners are grown up, intelligent people, and I think that if they're members, they're retired... Because, of course, it's not true that I don't know what kind of friends could be put in the pensioner's co-operative, because it's a prerequisite for a pensioner's membership. [[There are constant interruptions from the benches of the MSZP.]] As in the case of student cooperatives, it is possible to facilitate the possible work of pensioners' cooperatives, to a very limited extent, to become a member of a pensioner's cooperative. No benefits apply to him, so he shares his social security obligations and all other rules under the Labour Code. But there is absolutely no way that pensioners in a pensioner's cooperative can be controlled on this basis, because pensioners have one member, necessarily in a vast majority, which means that every cooperative has an obligation to be more than 85 percent pensioners, and I watch Hungarian pensioners so much, as opposed to you, that they do not allow them to be dominated by villains. [[The intervention of Anita Herring.]] [[13.20]] They're not buying this. It is excluded, as thousands of students have demanded long before, that Parliament, by some legislative act, assist such Czeglédy's MSZP con artists in the market to purify the market. [[Anita Beringes: The con man is you, Louis!]] That's why, by the way, we helped with the reverse VAT introduced at the rental and student union so that at least the MSZP lawyers couldn't steal the VAT, just like they did. As shameful as this is, we know that there is a good example here, Csaba Czeglédy, lawyer of MSZP and DK, has robbed thousands of students of school association abuse. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: How many times can you say that name? We'd be counting to see if you'd break a record.]] Of course, who calls the financial contribution a membership fee, as did Mrs Bango, once again has no idea that the membership fee is some form of association. A member's fee is excluded at the pensioner's co-operative because there's a financial contribution, as many as pensioners decide. If it's 100,000, 100,000, 100,000, if it's a thousand, a thousand, absurdum if it's 50 forints, 50 forints. As many as pensioners decide. They're not friends of anyone, they're seniors who join the cooperative. So all of these fraternities, mentioned by many of my socialist fellow Members, were simply lies, but as former MSZP MEPs who were enthusiastic about Ferenc Gyurcsány when Ferenc Gyurcsány said that you were lying, that we lied in the morning, that night and that you would not give up this tradition. So, in that sense, they were talking nonsense. They didn't hear Mrs Bangón talking about not supporting the form of pensioner-cooperative by various organisations. Read the statements of Attila Gazsi, Vice-President of VOSZ, dealing with this issue, or the statement of the President of VOSZ, Sándor Demján, who welcomed this system. Just as the National Association of Retirementes, as an association, is the largest association of pensioners, its president himself declared that it was a good idea and supported, and he said the same thing to the years. But if these are far from you, let me draw your attention to the fact that the newly elected President of the Retirement Parliament, Mihály Christmas, who worked with you for a very long time in the Ministry of Péter Kiss, is also a socialist who has been carved from behind, welcomed and supported. In fact, Péter Sándor himself organised a pensioner's cooperative - another pillared socialist, an expert in the world of work - and is also registered. I note that he himself said that, for all this, the socialists had put him on the uproar and disbarred him, even deprived him of his parliamentary entry. It is typical for the socialists to think that they should not consider any argument, but act out of anger, and even from old, otherwise excellent professionals such as Péter Sándor or Mihály Christmas, they will be disbanded without hesitation. It's your job. It is interesting that it was good for President Parlamenti a few months earlier, and he was supported then. Everyone constantly confuses the social cooperative with pensioners' cooperatives of general interest; it must be beyond their ability to understand the difference. I just want to say that there is no social retirement fund at all. So any such interrogation with social cooperatives is a misunderstanding because it is a pensioner's cooperative of general interest. By the way, the word "public interest" refers to the fact that it is not simply an economic company. We have said many times that this is an opportunity for pensioners to reconnect to the world of work, if they want to, to be somewhat active, but not an economic policy measure. This is not a cooperative of the type, such as the traditional, purely corporate form of enterprise, but the most important principle is that it has less economic activity and less social policy implications. We called it a public interest because we believe that this is in the interests of the Hungarian public, the interest of the ten million Hungarians is that the 2.7 million pensioners who receive an old-age pension or some kind of pension should remain active if they want to. He's retiring, and he doesn't want to work under the labor code for eight hours a day, five days a week. Retiremental employment is, of course, now. So everything you've told me about the fact that you can't keep pensioners busy is a lie. There is, in the sphere of competition, and it is also possible in the public sector if the head of the institution can demonstrate that the work of that employee is indispensable in the core functioning of the institution. There are thousands of people in the public sector, also employed in the institutional sphere. But this employment is basically either under the Labour Code or under the civil servants, government officials, some special sectoral employment law. The general principle of this employment is that there is an obligation for workers to work 8 hours a day or 4 hours a day, depending on the working schedule and 5 days a week. There is also freedom, and it is also a basically continuous duty to work - I know you do not understand this, but obviously you have not spoken to the pensioners as much about it - that a 70-year-old person no longer wants to do. I can imagine that. So you don't want him to be further engaged in retirement, which, once again, I do. So whoever claimed that it wasn't and that it had been removed wasn't telling the truth. So you can say that at 70, I don't want to work 5 days a week and 8 hours a day, but I'd like to do some work. A day or two. It's only two hours a day. Free. In fact, I can decide which day I'm going in for those two hours. But if I have more time, three hours, four hours, totally free. This form of cooperative allows this to happen. That's the point. Any comparison with employment under the Labour Code is a grave misunderstanding. You don't understand. They're having trouble understanding the words. I do not say that legislation is a complicated form, the laws are difficult, as the classic said, there are no pictures in it, but there is still some knowledge to be had, dear fellow Members. For example, everyone, Anita Heringes, Erzsébet Schmuck, who mentioned hourly wages, is, I mean, misguided. There is no hourly rate for cooperative employment. It's a business contract. Just like you don't mention the hourly rate if you sign the cooler, because there's a square meter, not an hour's salary, the cooperative form doesn't pay an hour. Not to mention the fact that when they talk about hourly wages recommended by Audi, then they are completely unaware of reality, since the employment of the cooperative self-employment is not a tape job. When you talk about multinationals, I've come to the conclusion that you have no idea what's going on. But just to be interesting, I know you're not disturbed by a lot of facts. [[Anita Beringes: The facts don't bother you, Louis! Not the truth, not the spine.]] But let's start from what we know: let's see what's going on with the student associations. There are 135,000 students working in student associations. They earn 46 billion forints a year. They have 10,000 business contracts. They have 10,000 business contracts under which this work is carried out. Less than 10 percent of the ten thousand business contracts fall into multinationals. Less than 10 percent fall into multi! So in a typical way, what you said is simply not true, but you just don't know it. But it's okay, because being firm is interesting in opposition work, the facts don't matter. However, for the sake of Parliament's record, let us say the data. How pensioners' cooperatives will perform in their business contract form is certainly not known today. Me neither. But what we do know is that model student associations aren't looking for jobs for the multinationals. Because once again, they had 10,000 business contracts last year, and 10 percent of that wasn't multi. You have to ask your advocacy organization. Of course, if you rely on the data of the Czeglédy, who looted the students he contracted for McDonald S, then of course that could be misleading. [[Dr. István Józsa: But this is nonsense you just said, Louis!]] [[In the notary seat Dr. István Tiba will be replaced by Attila Gelencsér.]] Of course, I would like to stress that if someone doesn't understand cooperative operations, they can talk about pensioners being exploited, looted, ripped off by their buddies. For I say once again - because Sebestyén Cságó also used this formula - that, of course, in pensioners' cooperatives, the pensioners decide everything on the basis of the principle of one vote. [[13.30]] It's not about friends, whether it's about Czeglédy or not, because it's obviously about the,, mates, who are hurting the MSZP right now because Mr. Czeglédy has failed badly with this case, and it's very embarrassing that the MSZP campaign money was raised from the looting of students, and then the complete MSZP leader arm stood up for Csaba Czeglédy, who is so bad that Botka tried to distance himself from him. Luckily, DK was on the case that there was no man more powerful than the Czeglédy. Let it be said to you. One of the most outrageous things to do is to rob students of such depraved practices. Once again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that any speculation that has talked to some kind of friends about creating opportunities is a lie, since, I say again, pensioners' cooperatives are autonomous, making their own decisions, with a pensioner - one vote. I hope that no one in one world can steal them, and I hope that with the closure of the Czeglédy case, the socialists will not send another such impostor to the neck of pensioners now to make the campaign with the money of pensioners. Dear House, We have often said - it's okay, maybe once a tiny little Nándor Gúr will think about the data, although I don't really hope for this, but I'm not discouraged - according to official statistics, according to statistics by the organisations that deal with this, Hungary worked in the European Union at the end of 2016 - because the figures for 2017 are not yet available - with a permanent Hungarian residence of about 400 thousand. Obviously, I say this because if you are a Hungarian citizen, but you happen to be a permanent resident in Szeklerland and you work from there in the European Union, it cannot be counted into this 400 thousand. So more Hungarians work, but they are not Hungarian citizens with permanent residences in Hungary. There's 400,000 of them. This figure turned out to be from 1990, from the beginnings of democracy to our membership of the EU, until 2004 there were 220,000 people. So these numbers went up from zero to 220,000. In English and conceptually, there is no way - since there were governments of all kinds - that someone would drive anyone out of here. The fact is that part of the Hungarian labour market is sufficiently mobile to make use of such an opportunity. From 2004 to 2016, this figure went up to 400,000, so our membership of the European Union increased by 180,000 to 400,000. And to add, the great boom was caused by the cessation of the moratorium in Austria and Germany. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Be careful because you haven't said the name of Czeglédy in two minutes!]] You should know that out of this 400,000, 130,000 commuters a day. This means that basically along the western border, this form or weekly commuters are people who go out with low-cost flights on a weekly basis, but they do not build their existence there, but here in Hungary, and their families are here. All of this is interesting because, of course, everything that compares with anything that has driven anyone out of the country is obviously not true. And let me draw everyone's attention to this: the largest nation whose sons do not work in their own national countries, but in the various countries of the European Union, is German. So the Germans are the majority of those who are not working in Germany, but who are going to different EU countries. It is clear that the Germans are the least likely to be told that the hopeless and hopeless economic situation, the miserable social care, the prospect of creating existentialism, or the extremely low wages have driven the Germans away - I note that there are millions of them - but it is quite clear that this is a part of European existence. Only the MSZP is so attached to a different kind of existence that it can't imagine. So it is quite obvious that, as a general rule or typically by looking at the size of the labour market in a given country, a 5-10-15 percent is looking for work elsewhere. There's a problem, and we'll see countries like this if that ratio goes south. Hungary, especially the opposition, should therefore not insult these people, because the most important thing is that they come home. On the other hand, they do not need to be treated at the same level as migrants or immigrants. If someone says these people are emigrants, then he doesn't know that if, as a European citizen, I choose to live in Spain, I'm not an emigrator, I'm using my European rights. As I would like to stress, in the Hungarian labour market there are roughly 20,000 citizens who are not Hungarian, but German, Italian, French, who work here in Hungary. Then what should we consider them to be? It's the same thing! Of course, the Hungarian labour market also has a segment that is sufficiently attractive for a German worker to work here or for a Spanish or Italian. Europeans are so far from the thinking or guts of the MSZP that they do not understand them. I'm not gonna say this in the hope that it's gonna come back anytime, because it's not gonna come back, but I'm just gonna say it to someone to record it so someone can talk about facts, not just horse-zung. And let me say another shocking number: there are 40,000 European citizens who live in Hungary not because of the work, but because they chose Hungary as their place of residence because they think it is a good place. The number of these has recently increased exponentially, because they think that Hungary is a good place. They are obviously less aware of Anita Heringes or Nándor Gúr's parliamentary speeches, but they are fortunate because they do not understand them. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Mr. President. Dear House, If I understand correctly, the MSZP rejects this. Jobbik made a loophole after he insulted us all the time about the amendment of the law, and I note, confused with the cooperative law, because we are now fundamentally amending the tax law and not the cooperative law. In the cooperative law, the amendment is actually legal, and we insert a word into a figure of speech. So, basically, we are amending the tax law; if they had accidentally focused on amending the cooperative law, it would have been done before. In any case, as I understand it, Parliament is fundamentally in favour of this, and I thank you for that. Of course, that's what the KDNP lead speaker said, and the Fidesz said, if I understand correctly, that's what Jobbik and LMP are saying, so the MSZP is completely on its own. It's an interesting constellation in retirement. Finally, let me say that the claim that I wanted to take away the votes of pensioners in any way is a lie. Anita Heringes has a serious problem not only with the interpretation of the law text, but also with the interpretation of newspaper articles. It's okay, it can be helped because it's a learning process. We are never discouraged because in lifelong learning, these abilities can be acquired. Of course, if the Hungarian pensioners had been insulted by someone, it would have been Gábor Vona, but this is a different issue. We're here to create an opportunity for them. Please support this bill to ensure that the registration of pensioners' cooperatives, as in the case of KFTs, social cooperatives, public companies and deposit companies, is free of charge. Actually, that's all it's about. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-19-69	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 1991 XLI on notaries. General debate on the amendment of law and of certain laws on judicial matters until closure. The government referral T/16818. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2017-09-19-70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The amendments contained in the physical bill before you intend to renew certain points of the regulation on notary activities in two areas. On the one hand, as the Court of Justice of the European Union has declared the inclusion of a notary profession in the condition of nationality as a breach of EU rules on freedom of establishment, not only for Hungary but also for a number of other Member States, the bill serves to comply with the court's judgment published on 1 February 2017. [[13.40]] Secondly, other proposals for amendments aim at supplementing the data content of the national register of wills in order to enable the notary to ask from a single register whether the deceased has taken an action before a notary or a lawyer. In the two subject areas of regulation, I will give you the following summary of the objective that is to be achieved through the amendment of individual laws. Following other national procedures, the European Commission launched infringement proceedings against Hungary in 2006, because in its legal system the practice of the notary profession is subject to a nationality condition. In the Commission's view, the imposition of a nationality condition constitutes a discrimination on grounds of nationality contrary to Union law which does not fall within the scope of Article 51 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which provides for an exception to the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of nationality in respect of activities relating to the exercise of public authority, such as participation in the exercise of public authority, which are permanently or temporarily linked to the exercise of public authority. The previous proceedings concerned the old Member States, Germany, Austria, Belgium, France, Greece and Luxembourg and the Netherlands, against which the Commission brought an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union in spring 2008. Hungary took part in court proceedings as an intervention, in which it explained that notary activities in the Member States fall within the scope of the exercise of public authority, so that the nationality requirement can be maintained in force in each national legal system in accordance with EU law. In its judgments delivered in 2011, the court found that the nationality condition provided for in the law of the Member States in respect of the exercise of a notary profession constituted discrimination on grounds of nationality. The court did not consider any of the notary activities examined in respect of those Member States to be public authority, so in any case it did not examine the sustainability of the nationality condition for notaries who exercise both public authority and non-public authority. Following the judgment of the court, the Member States concerned changed their regulations and abolished the nationality condition for notaries. In the proceedings initiated by the Commission against Hungary, the Court of Justice of the European Union delivered a judgment on 1 February 2017 in which it condemned Hungary. In its judgment, the Court held that, since Hungary had made the practice of notary profession subject to a condition of nationality, it had failed to fulfil its obligations under Article 49 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union relating to freedom of establishment. The author intends to ensure the implementation of the provisions of this judgment by amending certain provisions of the Law on notaries. Article 49 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides for a level playing field for freedom of establishment for nationals of EU Member States, EEA States outside the Union and Switzerland. Accordingly, instead of the Hungarian citizenship criterion, the bill provides for the nationality of these States as a condition for appointment as notary. In order to comply with the judgment of the court, it is therefore necessary to amend the conditions for appointment as notary. The bill partially redefines the existing conditionality. It abolishes the Hungarian citizenship criterion required as a condition for the appointment to become a notary and the non-notary, deputy notary or notary candidate to become a member of the notary office. It does, however, leave as a condition for the exercise of a notary profession a guarantee of exemption from the scope of the ban on public affairs, as well as of the exclusion of janitorial and assisted decision-making concerning the capacity to act. The bill intends to continue to ensure linguistic and professional competence, which is traditionally a condition for the practice of the notary profession, by requiring the linguistic and professional qualifications required for the performance of the notary activity. To this end, it provides for the effective completion of the notary examination and the formal qualifications of a lawyer which meet the prerequisite of a separate legal examination in the field of professional qualifications, in respect of the applications announced after July 1, 2018. In addition to opening up the profession of notary to non-Hungarian citizens, it is necessary to amend the provisions on language permission and language skills. Accordingly, the bill requires the knowledge of the Hungarian language necessary for the conduct of the procedure, which is essential from the notary's side to the conduct of the proceedings. An appropriate level of knowledge of this will be verified in the course of the tender, in the framework of the applicant's personal hearing, by the Presidency of the regional chamber which announced the tender. As regards the language licence of the notary and the notary, the bill makes it clear that, for the purposes of the law, a foreign language is a language other than the language of the proceedings. In addition to the legislative task resulting from the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the judicial portfolio carried out a review of the legislative environment for the national register of wills during the preparation of the bill. The purpose of this register is to provide notaries conducting the succession procedure with information on the will of the deceased in order to enforce it. Persons entitled to the final measure shall be free to choose in what form, in a public will or in a written private will to make provision for their property or part of it in the event of their death. In doing so, they also have the possibility to contact a notary or a lawyer if they need legal assistance. For wills prepared by or deposited with a lawyer, the Hungarian Bar Association also operates a register, the central will register. However, the enforcement of the principle of favor testamenti requires that notaries be informed effectively about the will of the deceased. To this end, the bill aims to supplement the data content of the national register of wills by establishing the necessary rules for the transmission of data contained in the central will register. Thus, the bill requires the Hungarian Bar Association to forward the data of the final measures in the archives of the Hungarian Bar Association and introduced in the central will register to the Hungarian National Chamber of Notaries, in the form of one-off reporting. Thus, in the future, a one-off query to notaries in the national register of wills will make it available to access the data of the final measures made or deposited with the legal contributor without having to submit a separate request to the Hungarian Bar Association. This legislative solution also ensures that the data content of the national register of wills can be completed without the interconnection of different registers. Among the transitional provisions of the Law on the Probation Procedure, the bill also settles the fate of the final measures drawn up or deposited by the lawyer and held between the documents of the lawyer, which the lawyer declared to the national register of wills, but did not transmit to the archives of the Hungarian Bar Association. The interest in finding the final measures dictates that lawyers should also place these final measures in the archives of the Hungarian Bar Association for safe custody and treatment. The IRM Regulation on the national register of wills wills will also be amended in the context of the bill in order to include the necessary contribution to the provision of data in the national register of wills by a lawyer's mandate to produce or deposit a will. As a result of the amendment of the Law on the Probation Procedure, the rules on inquiry in order to detect the property of the deceased during the succession procedure are placed in one place. Thus, the rules for seeking from the national register of wills are laid down in the law on notaries, the rules for seeking from the electronic register of matrimonial and partnership property contracts in the law on individual notary non-court proceedings in a uniform manner among the provisions of the probate procedure. I therefore recommend the bill to the attention of honourable Members, asking for their support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[13.50]]
u2017-09-19-71	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Róbert Répássy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-09-19-72	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Our group supports the government's presentation. The Ministerial Expo also revealed that the bill intends to make two changes in the current notary law. One of the changes is compulsory because of a judgment given by the Court of Justice of the European Union, so it is not very possible for us to make a different decision than is required by the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union on 1 February this year and, on the other hand, an amendment to the register of wills is included in the bill. The first case, perhaps I do not underestimate the Court of Justice of the European Union by saying that the first case is more theoretical, because I must say that in the future there will be exactly the same number of Swiss or German citizens in Hungary as the number of Hungarian citizens appointed as notaries in Switzerland or Germany. That's pretty much the number you can estimate. So the theoretical significance of this amendment is that from now on not only Hungarian citizens can become not only notaries, but also citizens of the European Union and the European Economic Area and Switzerland can apply for notaries in Hungary and receive notary appointments. Of course, if they fulfil other conditions, the conditions which notaries of Hungarian citizenship also meet, it is clear that they have legal qualifications - this does not necessarily mean a degree in Hungary - but they do have a professional exam that enables them to carry out notary activities - this is a more difficult condition, I think, since this exam must be obtained in Hungary - and last but not least they speak Hungarian at a level that they can be entrusted with the administration of the affairs of Hungarian citizens. So these conditions can obviously be fulfilled by anyone, but, as in other Member States of the European Union, it is quite rare for a citizen of another Member State to be appointed notary - in the case mentioned above, I said that this number will be very low, that we will see such notary appointments - but this cannot be ruled out, this is a decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union of theoretical importance: in the interests of freedom of establishment, all EU citizens must be granted the right to notary appointment. However, the matter, more specifically, the essence of the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union, is a very important one, and again I say that it is a theoretical problem, namely, what we consider notary activity, what the Court of Justice of the European Union considers notary activity to be. I have to say that, accepting the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union, while respecting this decision, the Court of Justice of the European Union is somewhat contrary to the view of notary activity, as we have been thinking of it for decades, and even more than a hundred years now, on notary activity, the Court of Justice of the European Union says that notary activities as defined in the Hungarian legal order do not constitute participation in the exercise of public authority. So the Court of Justice of the European Union has decided that the Hungarian notary does not exercise public authority. On the other hand, we can safely hold ourselves to the position that notaries working under the coat of arms of Hungary, with their stamp with the coat of arms of Hungary, do, or at least carry out, a public authority activity, because if they did not do so, their entire impartial procedure would be questionable. The notary who unilaterally represents the interests of the clients is not a notary, the lawyer, in fact, the lawyer whose job it is to stand next to the client. The notary must be impartial, in fact the same information, the same legal services should be provided by notaries to those parties who come before him or her, and therefore their activities will never be the same as those of the lawyer, whose legal obligation is to act in the interests of his or her client, and the notary's legal duty is always to act in accordance with the law and impartially among the clients. So here, once again, while respecting the Court of Justice of the European Union, let us just continue to consider that notaries are engaged in a public interest activity, at least in matters where they are legally bound to act and not on the basis of the client's free choice. The other part of the proposal, which is trying to harmonise the register of wills, serves the purpose of providing the notary with information on the two kinds of wills, the public will that the notary has made before the notary and the private will edited by the lawyer and preserved by the lawyer in the probate procedure. So once again, the notary can enter into this procedure in two qualities: on the one hand, when he edits a document, this is done on the basis of the client's free choice, the notary provides a service to the client; on the other hand, when he conducts a legacy procedure, the client cannot choose his procedure, but is obliged to use the procedure before the notary. Therefore, a notary will carry out this probate procedure, and therefore, in this case, in the exercise of public authority, the notary has the right to know whether there are wills drawn up by lawyers or lawyers, whether they remain, whether there are wills left after the deceased, and therefore the amendment of the law applies the solution that, at least for the first time, data from the will register kept by lawyers should be provided to the notary will register. I apologize for not saying these things, because they're untraceable to me, too. One is called a central register, the other a national register, both will records, only one for lawyers and the other for notaries. I'm always confused about which one is which. It may be appropriate to include the notary name in the name of the registers, and the lawyer name in the name of the notary, because at the moment it is certain that every day in the profession the lawyers know which is the lawyer's register and which is its notary, but this transfer is a bit confusing in the text of the law. The point is, the notary should also know what wills were made for the lawyer. So that sounds like a technical rule. Obviously, it may arise, by the way, why this transfer is not mutual, what is the point of notary registering that a will has been made with a lawyer, but the lawyer cannot know, or at least does not necessarily know, whether a public will was made before the notary in the case of the deceased. It is therefore appropriate to consider that both registers may, of course, be made available to the two professions during their formal proceedings or during their proceedings with the client. Dear House, Thus, the proposals are partly due to or arise from an EU obligation and partly contain a life-forced amendment. It is in the interest of the clients in both cases that Parliament supports this bill, which is why I ask you to support the adoption of the law. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.00]]
u2017-09-19-73	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-09-19-74	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It is interesting when you take the bill into your hands, and the rare experience is that there is also an impact assessment summary; we have not been used to it at Fidesz in the past. However, there are rather strange comments on this. For example, the lack of budgetary impact of the proposal; the administrative burden remains unchanged. The impact assessment paper also states that the draft has no health, environmental or social impact. Then why the hell would you make a law? What's the effect then? So he doesn't have all these. Besides, I find it difficult to imagine that there are no budgetary and administrative effects, but this is what the impact assessment paper contains, so it is very interesting that when there is one, what it contains is also quite strange. It is necessary to know and to see that this is the second law running in parallel before the National Assembly, as regards the notary faculty and the legislation on notaries. There was a debate on the other proposal in the Judicial Committee, but it is absolutely appropriate to this proposal that it might be worth deciding what function the notary basically performs in Hungarian public life. On the one hand, it exercises public authority and, on the other, it provides services to the population, if you like, which have nothing to do with the exercise of public authority. And perhaps that is why this faulty and wrong system, which was the result of a very strong notary lobby at the time, must now be dealt with here and there by the legislator. I am not referring to the fundamental purposes of the proposal here, but I am referring to the notary exam, for example. We agree that if we have a European obligation, it must be fulfilled. I don't have an argument with the government; the fact that you're gonna fix this, you're gonna fix it, it's okay. The legislation on wills, too, I think, is technically acceptable and eligible. However, the law has long enough, and here the previous speeches also emphasized the fact that there is a so-called notary exam, and who can become a notary, so what degree is required for it. For example, what does it mean to be qualified as a lawyer that meets the prerequisites of a legal exam? Are you referring only to the foreigner, Mr. Congressman or Secretary of State, or do we still have one in Hungary? 'Cause I know law school, and I don't know anything else. I understand that training at the University of Public Service will not qualify for notary duties. Then what else is there to think about? Please help me. Or is it really just the foreigner? The second is that, in addition to saying once again, it would be advisable to settle the relationship between notaries and lawyers, because many problems and many additional legal actions could be avoided, and it would also be advisable to reform the legal exam if there is a government demand for this. For at least six to seven years, in scale, since Fidesz has been ruling this country, I hear it's only a very short period of time, and the legal exam system will be redesigned. Then we'll never see this happen. Why? And, Mr. Secretary, I'd appreciate it if you'd answer that there's a plan like this now or there isn't one. [[István Szávay is replaced by István Ikotity in the notary seat.]] Because I ask you, if we classify the notary profession as one of the legal professions, and it seems very well, since the National Judicial Council is now represented not only by the law and prosecutor's office compared to the OIT, but also by the notary faculty, I think, quite rightly, why can't it be decided that we will then hold a uniform legal exam, then this applies to notaries, nothing more, nothing less, or we will reform this, and then we will have a separate exam for lawyers, prosecutors, judges, notaries. This is also a viable way; this would obviously make inter-professional access more difficult. But what I don't see is what's at the top of it, and what's the point, is that while a judge, a lawyer, doesn't have to take a special exam, a notary does, after he passed the bar exam anyway. Why? If you're working as a candidate for attorney, you don't know if you want to go over to a judge or a court of law, or even the D.A.'s office. He who was a judge has never met or dealt with the law of a lawyer, the ethics of a lawyer, or just how a speaker should and what to do and what not to do in a criminal case. These areas are as special as your notaries. I just want to ask you what the reason is, once again, that while in the case of other professional orders, we do not need any other exams, we need another exam in the case of notaries. I think, and that is my belief, Mr Secretary, that we should decide whether we want a single examination or a professional examination, and that we should also measure the regulation on notaries. It's uneven, and it doesn't make any sense. So, although we can agree with some of the provisions, as far as compliance with EU law is concerned, or what I have mentioned, as regards the provisions on probate procedures and succession, we cannot agree with them, but with this system where you demand a special examination from notaries. So we cannot support this proposal, and we ask once again, Mr Secretary, that the Ministry finally decide what it wants, which way to move the examination system. It could be this way, it could be that way, but it's another hybrid solution that doesn't make any sense. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2017-09-19-75	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-09-19-76	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The 1991 XLI on notaries. Act T/16818 on the amendment of the law on certain judicial matters The amendments contained in the bill No 1 aim to renew certain points of the rules on notary activities in two areas. Let us first look at one of the issues on the subject. This is that the Court of Justice of the European Union has declared the connection of the practice of notary to the condition of nationality as a breach of the Union's rules on freedom of establishment. In view of the above, T/16818. In fact, the court's judgment published on 1 February 2017 is being introduced, and it is trying to comply with that provision. In this context, it is necessary to amend the provisions on language permission and language skills in addition to opening up the notary profession to non-Hungarian citizens. Accordingly, the bill requires the knowledge of the Hungarian language necessary for the conduct of the procedure, which is essential from the notary's side to the conduct of the procedure. [[14.10]] An appropriate level of knowledge of this will be verified in the course of the application by the presidency of the regional chamber which announced the tender within the framework of the applicant's personal hearing. As regards the language licence of the notary and the notary, the bill makes it clear that, for the purposes of the law, a foreign language is a language other than the language of the proceedings. The other issue of the amendment proposal is to supplement the data content of the national register of wills in order to enable the notary to ask from a single register whether the deceased has taken an action before a notary or a lawyer. As a result of the amendment of the Law on the Probation Procedure, the rules on inquiry in order to detect the property of the deceased during the succession procedure are placed in one place. Thus, the rules for querying from the national register of wills are set out in XLI 1991 on notaries. the rules for the consultation of the electronic register of matrimonial and civil property contracts are set out in the 2008 XLV on individual notary non-court proceedings. From law to law, it is laid down uniformly among the settlements of the succession procedure. Ladies and Gentlemen, Not to reiterate what Mr Secretary of State and what my colleague Robert Répássy said, the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the bill and please support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-19-77	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-09-19-78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Indeed, the proposal before us goes beyond a legislative amendment in that it also expresses the attitude of the bodies of the European Union and of the European Union to each legal system. This has been explained by my fellow Members before me that it is indeed an interesting state that the practice of notary public authority - because I can't judge it any other way than to exercise public authority - where notaries, acting in an appropriate area, have obtained their entitlement by an appropriate appointment system, and why notaries acting in a manner determined by the State, exercising public authority, do not fall within the exception of Article 51 of the EU's operating contract. We have heard that the Hungarian State has also contested this in a previous procedure; the details of this are to a certain extent known, obviously not to the extent that what else should have been done or what else could have been done to convince the EU. I do not know, for this reason, whether certain legislative amendments could have prevented the need to open a notary profession regardless of nationality, or this was the simpler situation, because, let's say, too complicated legislative amendments would have been needed to accept this in the EU, and, as our fellow Member Répássy said, it may be easier to include it in the law, and then obviously, when the appointment exercise is appreciated, they would not have expected much good if I understood it correctly. There is too much chance that candidates for the post of notary in each Member State may not enter, but, to my knowledge, there is a country where certain conditions have been met by notaries and the exercise of state power and the exercise of public authority has been recognised for them. So, to my knowledge, it cannot be said that it is the same practice in all the countries of the European Union. Hungarian legislation has been classified as such, which is regrettable in principle, because then it seems that it can open up thinking in that direction, whether in a bad sense the thinking of legislators or Hungarian legislators, to become a profession similar to that of the market, or to begin to approach its notaries in a market-like way, or even in a lawyer's profession. It has not been put on the agenda here today, but changes to the rules of competence also have some effect in this direction. I'm guessing there's still some background reconciliations to be made. Here some, if I looked around the room, my fellow Member Répássy Róbert and Gergely Bárándy were present at the meeting of the Judicial Committee, when the other notary amendment, which would have changed the rules of competence, and the system already in place in Budapest, which meant a procedure in the area of jurisdiction of a county, would have extended this to the countryside and extended it to the counties outside Budapest. This has already started to be the case, with proposals for a fidesz amendment made at the Justice Committee meeting, which have not yet been submitted but which have received oral support, which have already foreseen the opening of sub-offices, so that this should be the amendment. This could be one of the amendments proposed by the Fidesz-KDNP representatives. This is obviously already a road on which, if we are to start, other powers can be adjusted by referring to this in such a way that, as I said, we are increasingly approaching a notary activity in a market segment, which is problematic, which is what I said in the Committee on Justice, as we have already seen in foreign exchange credit contracts that notaries have either been able to resist the financial temptation to get more bank contracts in front of them and to sign these contracts virtually uncontrollable, while they should have guaranteed legality. So either they couldn't resist financial seduction or they were not professionally qualified to say that these contracts were indeed contrary to Hungarian legislation. By the way, in some of its points, these contracts could be considered to be subject to subsequent judicial decisions or even to the decision of the Constitutional Court, it was essentially proven that they did not comply with the law, and there were numerous other points in those contracts where the investigation did not reach the point where the breach of the law was declared or that they were not reviewed in the court, court, court or court proceedings in relation to the fact that these points were not affected. But it can still be said that the notaries unfortunately did not perform their activities sufficiently. Therefore, either for professional or financial reasons, they were only a type of signatory or prior to them to the signing of the customers, but otherwise they did not provide the legal guarantee to which notaries should be held by the State, or in the exercise of public authority they should be counted on by the state and the citizens. If that's what we're getting at, then obviously they didn't exercise public authority, but that wouldn't be the state we're trying to achieve. I believe in a world where notaries can even say that this is not in the context of Hungarian legislation, and they dare say that it is not his job as notary to read it to the bank's prospective lender, but even to stand in the direction of the bank in order to modify it, not just his name and other contact details. Unfortunately, we have seen this with its mass without consequences, and otherwise, the role of notaries in foreign exchange-credit cases has not been as pronounced as that of other players, although it has significantly pointed out the shortcomings of the system, and it can be extended to include that if there are more notaries from the point of view of the jurisdiction of the banks, then they may, as a matter of fact, choose the notary to whom they will be able to send the client. So it's not the client's choice, let's forget about it, and then the bank, like the other client, can be considered a client, since he sends the prospective credit-payer to the notary. [[14.20]] But in this case, you can choose the notary you're taking the business to. Maybe if one of you dares to refuse, you'll find someone who says these contracts are in line with the rules. But going back to the proposal before us and the points of the proposal before us, since the other law introducing new provisions on the rules of competence will come into force before Parliament. As for the new rules, and I'm thinking about the notary exam, it's a riddle for me as well, what that means. The legal exam will remain in it, so the legal exam will have to be passed in the same way, only a notary exam will be passed, which is clearly better known by the Secretary of State, what to expect from the notary exam that the notaries will have to pass here. And besides, the certificated legal qualifications - here, although I am not honored, but I would reply to Gergely Bárándy that, due to the strange practice of the University of Public Service and his enormous ability to assert interest, the patina law universities with a long history were deprived of being able to give doctoral education and education in state science... [[Dr. Robert Répássy: That's not true!]] Obviously, the fact that they renamed the qualifications... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: No, no! He only took his name! Nothing's changed in the course.]] I will also ask my fellow Members to speak to him then. So the education was definitely renamed. [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: Yes, you're right.]] We need to look at the degree they gave us, because looking around here, we are at the age of those who have received a previous degree in state and law, and who may have graduated after 2006-07, or maybe after 2007, I don't want to go into years, they've graduated from law school, because ELTE, Pázmány or Szeged University is already in the field of science, it seems to be declining compared to what the University of Public Service has to offer. But this is another argument, and I don't want to reopen it. In addition, of course, the plans are to make state science training mandatory for all state leaders, which, by the way, since it is only in this university that I know that it will be obtained and not only in the future, but also in the future, it raises an interesting question. But again, I wanted to say this in a furry way, rather, in response to the fact that the emergence of qualified legal qualifications is, in itself, one that draws attention to the flaws of the system at other points. It was a little strange for me to read that the applicant's knowledge of the procedure needed to be demonstrated. That might have been more explicit, I think. This raises a few questions as to what is the necessary knowledge - so that you can read the points of the contract sent by the bank to him? It may be a bit of a hungarian, but somehow it succeeds; it may even be able to answer questions to the client, but the slang is no longer understood; or if the client is not articulating properly, you will have to ask back. But let us trust that these are theoretical suggestions, after Répássy said that this would not happen, that he would not appoint a Hungarian citizen. But if we can create legal opportunities, then that can happen. So obviously the loopholes are open or rather open, and this opportunity will arise in the future. Perhaps a more stringent wording than language skills would be justified. By the way, to mention this for a few reasons, will records: this is a logical regulation, so if we talk only about it, it could be fully supported. Therefore, we can decide on the fate of the entire bill, although, on the basis of the arguments I have given, I am inclined to abstain here because of the uncertainties, but obviously, there may also be proposals for a pro-government amendment, and in an excellent closing speech, Mr Secretary of State may even convince us that the regulation is in order, but it would be good to know that, in spite of the fact that the Minister is authorized to lay down the detailed rules for the notary exam, this is also included, if we might know some detailed rules from the Secretary of State as to what this applies, if this were to be mentioned in the Ministry, but I think you have ideas that, if this law is brought here, it might be easier for us to decide, too. Along with maintaining what I said, and what our fellow Member Gergely Bárándy said before me, that if judges, lawyers, prosecutors have to prove their knowledge in the unified examination system, as well as notaries, because they expect an exam for appointment, then what is the reason and exactly what this notary exam will look like. I ask the Secretary of State to enlighten us in this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-19-79	Thank you, Congressman. The group of the LMP is not present, so they do not have a say in the debate. We have thus reached the end of the keynote speeches. Now we have two-minute comments. I give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy.
u2017-09-19-80	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, I would just like to comment on this exam or professional exam. On the one hand, we know that the legal exam has been uniform for quite a long time, and it is indeed as my fellow Members have said, that from the judge to the administrative expert, lawyers will pass the same legal exam, and yet they can practice a variety of professions. Yeah, but it's a constant problem that the exam doesn't really specialize. So, in fact, this type of single exam, which would serve the purpose of specifically deepening someone's future profession, is not suitable for this. So everyone knows this problem. At the same time, it is a natural need that lawyers do not want to take as many exams as they want to do, and that is why there is a need to pass these professions with an exam. That's one part of it. The other part is that I don't think it's impossible for notaries to require a special exam, so I think it's the right direction, but they keep the legal exam in addition, so, after all, they have to meet a higher qualification requirement for a notary or, more specifically, a notary candidate to become a notary afterwards. It would not be a problem in itself, but the question is whether this notary exam can also be performed for those who practice other legal professions or can only be put down if they are engaged in specific notary practice. Here the dog is buried to see if an outside lawyer can pass this notary test in Hungarian or not. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-09-19-81	Thank you. In the meantime, I would like to correct myself, because István Ikotity, our fellow Member, is performing a notary task, so here is the representative of the LMP. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy in two minutes.
u2017-09-19-82	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I agree with Mr Répássy, in part, on how to establish higher qualifications than before, but why only notaries? This way, do me a favor and answer me. So there's an unspoken hierarchy in the legal profession, and I think, and I have to admit, lawyers certainly have at least 90 percent or 99 I think they think they have judges, prosecutors, lawyers, notaries. That's what it looks like. Why the notaries? Then why not the judges? So I demand more than a notary than a judge or a prosecutor? I do not understand the logic of this, and that is precisely why I ask - I am glad that if Mr Secretary of State is pressing a button, I see how he is preparing for it, and then he answers - why. [[14.30]] Or let us really shape the system of the exam, as Congressman Répássy said, that there must be a special examination, a separate type of examination everywhere, and if someone wants to go to another profession, they usually now require practical time in the courts as a secretary or lawyer. You're the ones who brought him in, so that he can be an employed lawyer first, and then he can have his own practice. So we require a kind of, if you will, study time. Then why can't you add a special exam to this if you already have plans like this? So what I'm saying is, when in a system like this, there's one thing out of line, it's not good. And that is why I have to say that although it is possible, once again, to demand higher qualifications, we should do so in the legal profession, not just in the case of notaries. Thank you. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2017-09-19-83	Thank you. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2017-09-19-84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Although I will not have enough ammunition for the closing, some questions have been raised, which I would like to answer in the meantime, in case we can shorten the further polemization. Congressman Répássy had a question about will records: obviously, notaries must see the register of lawyers because they conduct the legacy procedure, so lawyers do not have such a task. So it is not necessary for them to open their notaries. So such an observation was made. The examination system is not affected, of course, by this change. What you can tell me, right, is that there's a licensed lawyer who's actually getting a degree at the university. It's his official name to avoid misunderstandings. After that, the examination system itself, we know that the practical time, the preparation itself, the education itself, and the other topics are the way of the examination itself, and then we get an exam, this is the single exam, which makes the system virtually interoperable. What is included in this regulation is this type of exam that has been included in the bar regulations, which is part of the application. They make sure the applicant has the knowledge to fill, say, a notary place. So this ministerial decree actually means highlighting the chamber regulations from the existing regulatory framework. As far as the EU is concerned, these notaries also provide public powers in other Member States. So whether in Benelux States, Germany, France, and after this dispute had been lost, they had to adapt their system in the same way, which we are now having so as not to have any further debate with the Union on these issues. Hopefully, that'll be the end of it. What kind of tools were we supposed to have? The Chamber was involved in these matters all along, so we didn't know in this sense, and those debates went on without our consent, and those arguments didn't come forward without saying what they thought about this matter. So maybe I can say that we've exhausted all the opportunities we had. As far as the impact assessment paper is concerned, I'm just going back to the beginning, it was actually just a social consultation. So this is not a separate impact assessment paper in this sense, so this is not what was made, and I just wanted to clarify that. I may have been able to respond to everything I've recorded here, based on what has been said. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-19-85	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy in a normal time frame.
u2017-09-19-86	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. The normal speech will be short, only because the house rules do not allow a further two-minute response, so I chose this genre. So, first of all, thank you for your answer, but let me argue with you on one thing, Mr Secretary, there is a huge difference between a rule imposed by state law, if you will, and a huge difference if it is a requirement of professional self-government. Let me say this in particular. You're saying that nothing else happens but that notaries, if you like, will turn their exams from the regulations of the notary chamber into legislation. And I think that's a huge difference, because if you look at it, then for every job order, I'm gonna say again, from judges to lawyers to prosecutors. So there are internal bar exams, courses, mandatory courses for candidates for lawyers, compared to those. They're the same inside the D.A.'s office. In the case of the courts, there is a separate academy where these trainings are carried out, and from time to time, the judges, as well as the prosecutors, are called to account and examined. That's what they do, and that's what the notaries did with this exam. Here, the state highlights one and makes it state law. It is laid down in a ministerial decree, in Hungarian: it raises it to the same level as the legal exam, because it is also fundamentally determined by a ministerial decree. There's a legal basis, Mr. Secretary, but that's what sets your rules. Here I highlight the notaries and regulate them by decree of the Minister or by law. Not the rest. Why? So again, I'm just saying, why is there this kind of distinction? Then the same could be done to highlight the lawyers' exams, the judges' exams, the prosecutors' exams, and to regulate them in a ministerial decree, and to establish the legal basis. There's a huge difference, apart from the principle. That, while this is a condition of becoming a notary, those exams are not a legal requirement, but only the conditions of the internal authorities to be able to practice that profession. So while a judge has no legal requirement other than to pass the exam, a lawyer also has one, for notaries there is one plus one. So this dissonance is alive, and I will say it again: therefore, what I have just said, this is not just a formal question, that if nothing else happens here, I will move it from the Chamber Code to a ministerial decree or bring it to the legal level. This is also a huge difference in content. Thank you very much. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2017-09-19-87	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to comment as rapporteur. It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-09-19-88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Very briefly so that this part does not remain unanswered. It is clear that this element was included in the regulation in agreement with the Hungarian National Chamber of Notaries, as my fellow Member mentioned the last time, that this one-year practical time for lawyers was introduced in our period, with the agreement of the Chamber of Lawyers, so, in practice, the opinion of the professions is clearly taken into account in the drafting of these laws. And for notaries, another extra reason creates a clearer situation, as there are still official and public activities for notaries that make the existence of a clear and permanent regulatory framework a guarantee element. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-19-89	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. It is now up to XLIX of 1991 on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. a general debate on the draft law amending law for harmonisation purposes, pending closure. The government referral is T/16275. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I will also give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, the rapporteur on the agenda.
u2017-09-19-90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill concerns judicial legislation, aimed at more effective conduct of insolvency proceedings, reorganisation proceedings, bankruptcy proceedings and winding-up proceedings against businesses with cross-border legal implications. The bill is XLIX of 1991 on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. It complements the law with regard to our obligations to harmonise legislation, i.e. national supplementary rules are laid down by the European Parliament and the Council in the context of insolvency proceedings concerning undertakings in the Member States of the European Union; in the context of its regulation, which replaced the former Council Regulation (EC) No 1346/2000, which was considered obsolete. [[14.40]] The scope of the EU Regulation covers debtors and insolvency and reorganisation proceedings initiated against them which have, in principle, their principal centre of interest in a Member State of the European Union and which have a subsidiary, establishment or creditor in another Member State. The EU Regulation basically lays down rules on private international law and does not harmonise bankruptcy law in the Member States. Its advantage, however, is to coordinate national procedures, to establish a legal framework for direct cooperation between insolvency experts and courts, and to facilitate more effective enforcement of creditors' claims in cross-border insolvency cases. What is new in the EU Regulation is the coordinated insolvency procedure for international groups of companies, which aims to establish a single strategy for restoring and reorganising the solvency of the group and its members, and, if this is not effective, for the sale of the company's assets to new investors and for the settlement of the debts of the members of the group. According to the EU Regulation, jurisdiction in relation to the opening and conduct of insolvency proceedings is determined by the company's main interest centre, the so-called main insolvency proceedings. In order to prevent abusive transfer of the main insolvency proceedings to another State, the courts of the Member States may examine where the real centre of administration of the debtor undertaking was at the time the proceedings were initiated. Under the EU Regulation, territorial, so-called secondary, procedures may be opened in other EU Member States in connection with the main insolvency proceedings, provided that the debtor has an establishment there. The purpose of these secondary procedures is to separate the debtor's assets there and to pay local creditors. In practice, the insolvency register of the Member States to be developed to provide information on the main data of proceedings will also be very useful for courts and creditors and other parties involved in proceedings, because the database will be available online from the end of June 2018. In June 2019, a common and uniform search platform will be set up at EU level and information on insolvency proceedings in Member States will also be available for consultation from any EU Member State. The public insolvency database at EU level will serve the security of market traffic and the interest of creditors. Dear Parliament, Both EU and Hungarian legislation aims to start losses as soon as possible with companies that are lagging behind in market competition, and to restore the solvency of the debt company. In other words, reorganisation should be preferred instead of winding-up proceedings, i.e. the exit of the undertaking from the market. These economic objectives can be achieved more effectively if the procedures initiated in the different EU Member States against the debtor undertaking are coordinated; in this respect, the EU regulation and the additional Hungarian legislation are a step forward. Overall, effective information flows between domestic and foreign courts and insolvency experts will reduce the costs of international proceedings, speed up and harmonise procedures, which will also benefit creditors. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-19-91	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Member Robert Répássy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-09-19-92	Dear House, The Fidesz Group supports the adoption of the bill. Basically, a European Union obligation, an EU legislative harmonisation, is the aim of this proposal, since a new regulation of the Council in 2000 could be considered obsolete in 2015, for which we have to adopt national additional rules, in order to better carry out insolvency proceedings, reorganisation proceedings, bankruptcy proceedings and winding-up proceedings against businesses in the field of civil non-court proceedings. So all these rules can be applied in cases where there is a cross-border element, so it is insolvency proceedings within the European Union. We must complement the Hungarian legislation by introducing implementing rules to assist the application of internal law, which, in conjunction with the EU Regulation, complement the implementing rules to the procedure of the Hungarian law enforcement bodies and to the organisations under Hungarian jurisdiction. The rules of detail were described by the Secretary of State in his expozee, I could say that this is a relatively simple and technical regulation. I hope that the Parliament will accept it, because there cannot be much political debate between the parties in this. Of course, all these procedures help to make these procedures more smooth and ultimately contribute to remedying insolvency in some way in cases where we are talking about firms operating in more than one Member State in the territory of an EU Member State. I therefore ask that you support the adoption of the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-19-93	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2017-09-19-94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The law on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings has been amended several times during the administration of Fidesz. Last time we had to comprehensively amend this law to Parliament in April, which is quite important for the functioning of the economy. Therefore, it is difficult to understand why such a fundamental law is being tried by the government to make it fit in such a way of absolving and absolving. The small detail that we have here has indeed been submitted for the purpose of amending the cross-border insolvency procedural rules, which have an EU dimension, with a view to harmonisation of laws. So our problem is basically not with this proposal, which is now in front of the House, but with the fact that, unfortunately, the judicial wallet has not yet worked very well from a professional point of view in the area of bankruptcy. Almost all of them soon had to be corrected to a lesser or greater extent, so the amendments already adopted by Parliament had to be followed up. All we have to do is think about introducing a self-reimbursement here. During the general debate of the April bill, Dr. László Szakács, Deputy Head of Group of the MSZP faction pointed out the results of the improvement of the bankruptcy law, which had already been patched up. We are very sorry that our then formulated, practically methodological and professional proposals remained a voice in the wilderness and did not prevail in the legislative process. A number of criticisms or amendments have been made to the bankruptcy law, for example in the context of broker scandals. [[14.50]] In addition to the fact that, in this presentation, the only positive thing is that he does not want to pick up the company in distress, but rather attempt to restore solvency, it is the right direction to propose a solution that is reorganised. At the same time, what happened in the area of broker scandals remains skandalum, as experience has shown that those affected have only obtained a fraction of the damage suffered and, to a large extent, following bankruptcy measures under unfortunate legislation. So in the money market area, there is absolutely no room for what a bankruptcy worker and what he can't do. Anyone who knows a little bit about this area knows that guillotine here means maximum loss, not minimization. The professional proposals and the ones that jumped out as a problem do not appear to be repeated, and the case of the victims of poverty should be resolved in a more favourable way. Fidesz did not contribute either to the order of satisfaction or to the expansion of assets that could be wound up, so tens of thousands of injured Hungarian families have been abandoned, many have been put in a less favourable position than in the case of a more normal regulation. Our comments can be divided into two parts, just as the bill can be divided into two parts: on the one hand, the legislative harmonisation stages containing the rules on insolvency proceedings affecting the EU and, on the other hand, the introduction of new rules on the new Pp. The new EU legislation contains truly forward-looking solutions compared to the one in force, which could be supported on our own, but we cannot go without saying, because of domestic circumstances, the shortcomings of the bankruptcy law, which requires a solution as soon as possible. It is enough to think of the problems of broker scandals already mentioned in part, the unfair and still unresolved situation of victims. The government still refuses to take note of these problems, and we resent that very much; it may be because, let us say, in the Quaestor area, there are even governmental links, but this is detrimental to the victims. Although the bankruptcy law is significantly rewritten every two to three months by the pro-government majority, their amendments do not form an appropriate system, some of the amendments are flawed and need to be corrected even after a short period of time, whereas the amendments tabled by the MSZP, initiated by the victims and making a legitimate claim, have been voted down by Fidesz without exception so far. As a matter of public policy, we do not understand this, because it is not a political issue, it is a simple economic issue, it is an absolute public matter. We do not understand that, when the rapporteur himself acknowledges that, for technical reasons, this House may already be preparing a new bill amending the bankruptcy law at a short-term level, we do not understand that the proposals that we have put forward, including the amendments that are necessary for the purposes of EU case law, justified for cross-border reasons, have not brought before us an edited, comprehensive bankruptcy law, which is much more effective than the present, allowing better functioning and regulation. On the basis of all this, we believe that a stay of professional recognition can be the maximum on the part of our group, stressing that an edited, much better law is needed. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-09-19-95	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-09-19-96	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, XLIX of 1991 on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. T/16275 on the amendment of Act T/16275 for harmonisation purposes. Legislative bill No 1 concerns judicial legislation, civil non-court proceedings, aimed at a more effective implementation of solvency procedures against businesses with cross-border legal aspects. The bill is XLIX of 1991 on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. Complements the law with regard to our obligations to harmonise legislation, laying down national supplementary rules in the context of insolvency procedures for undertakings in the Member States of the European Union In the context of its Regulation 2015/848. Ladies and Gentlemen, I must stress, as opposed to our MSZP fellow Member, who opposed in this bill why there is not a comprehensive, why there is not a completely new regulation regarding bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings, that this bill is specifically about amendments for legal harmonisation purposes, and this is supported by the parliamentary group of the Christian Democratic People's Party. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-19-97	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-09-19-98	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Here, two topics were a little confused before the Parliament's plenum. There is this current proposal, which lies before us, which is indeed the transposition of the EU regulation and the correct amendment of the Hungarian legal system to the application of the EU regulation, because it is in direct effect, so transposition should be understood as the establishment of the legal system. Obviously, this is something that can be said about, in general, the liquidation and bankruptcy proceedings, although this is less the subject of the current proposal before us. I would like to say that what has been set as a goal in the European Union and is formulated in this new regulation is, of course, eligible, because, as the borders have become interoperable, and companies can, on the one hand, transfer their services from one country to another, in some cases, their headquarters; although I would not agree to that, because a company under which jurisdiction is subject has serious legal disputes, so when it can be placed under the jurisdiction of another country. The point is that companies, as legal persons, can exercise the right of free movement with certain restrictions, and therefore there is a clear increase in abuses, so that certain assets in a company affected by liquidation or bankruptcy, either to rescue or to put creditors in a more favourable position in another country, these rules or differences in rules between EU countries have allowed these loopholes to be circumvented, and it is natural for them to be closed, or the Union is seeking to do so. This is highly eligible, especially since it is private customers and small and medium-sized enterprises in general that suffer most from these rules, i.e. by taking advantage of loopholes, since they will not be able to enforce an interest, or much more difficult and more costly to pursue an interest in another Member State, to announce their claim in another EU Member State. Naturally, on the basis of financial and legal difficulties, they do not know quite simply, even if the legal possibility was theoretically given, it would not be adequate to pay, I almost said that it was demand, but a background of small and medium-sized enterprises to do so. It is also true that insolvency proceedings and the recognition of judgments have often caused problems, parallel proceedings have emerged in several EU Member States, and the institution of relocation has also been an exclusive example of abuse that is being exploited by companies in difficulty and fraudulent leaders within a given country. By the way, some partial amendments to the law have been made to this before the Parliament in recent years. [[15.00]] It was a practice that if a person went bankrupt, went into liquidation, or the tax authority tried to enforce something on him, he moved his seat to another county, he was able to pull the procedure within Hungary, and those who gain time will gain life, as the saying goes, and therefore the transfer of the seat, the transfer of documents, the sending of documents, in some cases, resulted in fraudsters gaining time and, where appropriate, getting away with crimes or abuses. Due to the applicability of the different legal systems in the Union, this posed an even easier and more real threat. I therefore welcomed it myself when I read that the courts in the future should carefully consider whether, for example, the transfer of seat in the event of bankruptcy was not in order to be subject to lighter rules, and that the former seat could be eliminated and established as the place of its real seat and the jurisdiction of the authorities there. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] It is necessary to wait until the summer of 2019 to establish a link between electronic registers in the countries of the Union, i.e. in fact two more years to come. I do not know what type of IT problems there are that require two years to do so, but this, I think, is obviously - although I may be too optimistic - was considered in the Union when this regulation was made, but it may have been possible to speed this up. The rules that apply to these amendments here before us therefore seem to me to be eligible for the first time, although the amendments are, of course, not yet known. In the end, I have to say that the concerns raised by the MSZP are living concerns about the winding-up and bankruptcy law. But I would add that these were not just born, but that after 1990 there was a chaotic, wild-eastern situation in bankruptcy, but especially in the liquidation market, which led not only to public companies being often robbed in the liquidation process, and often to kissers, the assets were practically liquidated by public companies, and creditors could not leave real, substantial assets - after 90 it was a practice - and then they played this not only with public companies, but also with market players, market firms that did not otherwise have a public background, they could be played. In the nineties, the executables - that is what they called it - lived in their prime, but in the two thousand years we cannot talk about a great setback. Unfortunately, this was a cross-border exercise, and the Fidesz and MSZP governments couldn't or didn't want to do anything about it. Now, what has changed is that the liquidation market was mostly provided to Fidesz-near companies on the basis of new laws and liquidation lists, but previously it was referred to the wild-east state of the 1990s that at that time the companies related to the MSZP were more in the saddle. Unfortunately, this is also an area in which the two large parties, taking turns in government positions, managed to steal the Hungarian state and then, in many cases, the private company assets, thus increasing the volume of the assets that were saved from Hungary jointly from government cycles to government cycles. I do not want to say any specific names here, but the senior officials of the MSZP, and even one of the prime ministers nominated and elected by it, have been mentioned in such transactions, but, of course, unfortunately, accountability has not reached the point that these transactions have been properly disclosed by Fidesz after 2010, and we have seen practically only that creditors who are private individuals or small businesses whose money is left behind have been reported more than once about their suicide. This is how the liquidation market worked, which has only partially calmed down, although obviously the conditions of the nineties no longer prevail, thanks to God, but there would still be work to be done in the area. I would like to say that, regardless of whether this proposal is eligible, and the EU regulation is forward-looking, it would not hurt if even the Ministry were to re-assess the rules of the winding-up procedure and close any remaining loopholes, because this is a disgrace to the Hungarian history after 1990, which, once it is finally possible for Hungary to have a government that makes detailed discoveries, we will see in what volume the national assets and the assets of Hungarian individuals have been shoveled and transferred - if I want to say it very nicely - into the property of other individuals, or offshore directions, which should not have been allowed, and even if these crimes have lapsed, the minimum is to know about those responsible and those involved, especially if they have subsequently entered into a political or public course, and most importantly, if they were still there, then they should be removed. That is what I wanted to say to the proposal. I know there are two different areas, but as long as there are such concerns about the winding-up and bankruptcy laws, these must also be said before the Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-19-99	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Independent Members do not take part in the debate, no one has applied for a two-minute speech. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Pál Völner: No.]] The Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to react. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill amending the rules on the protection of patterns of use until closure. The government referral is T/17307. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2017-09-19-100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, T/17307 amending the rules on the protection of patterns of use The aim of the adoption of bill No 1 is to improve the conditions for the protection of domestic industrial property rights by fine-tuning the use model protection systems and system clients. The right of use is intended to protect the technical solution to the problems raised by practical life quickly and cost-effectively, and to protect the results of simple development in the inventions. [[15.10]] Under the rules in force, a model of use may be protected for the design, structure or layout of an object if it is based on a new inventor's step and can be applied industrially. The range of protective solutions is narrower compared to patentable inventions, and the level of creation required for protection is lower, but the protection of the pattern is accompanied by a shorter period of protection. The procedure for obtaining a sample protection also shows a conceptual difference compared to the patent procedure, since the application for a sample protection is assessed by the National Intellectual Property Office without examining the conditions of protection requiring novelty and inventive steps in order to ensure the speed of the procedure. As a result, the validity of the protection can only be established in a subsequent procedure for the destruction of the model protection. Despite the important role played by this form of protection in several EU Member States, the right of use is not subject to legal harmonisation in the European Union, nor is the patent contract governing certain aspects of patent protection procedures applicable to it. This offers a great regulatory margin to ensure that the potential of the model protection for business development and economic recovery can be enforced in a manner that best suits the interests of the Hungarian notifiers, since this form of protection is used by Hungarian notifiers to more than 90 percent. The notifiers can quickly and easily obtain domestic exclusive rights through a less formalised procedure to ensure the return on development expenditure. Recognizing this, the Jedlik Plan, the National Strategy for the Protection of Intellectual Property, identified as a strategic objective the mapping of the possibilities for further development of the model of use protection system as early as 2013. Although the standard of use is almost exclusively for domestic businesses, the number of domestic notifications in 2015 was 249 and 304 in 2016. At the end of 2016, a total of 852 national models of use were in force, with a slight decrease compared to 2015. It is also well known that the industrial property protection activity of Hungarian SMEs remains below even the unsatisfactory average of Hungarian companies. With the bill, the government aims to adapt model rules to the needs of SMEs and, indirectly, to promote their R &amp; D activity and innovation activities. In order to provide a professional basis for the revision of the model of use system and to assess the needs of the relevant social and economic operators, a discussion questionnaire was first published prior to the preparation of the legislative amendment and it was sent directly to the most affected social organisations. It was then possible to comment on the legislative concept, which took into account the results of the consultation. The proposed amendment, which is the subject of the present proposal, was drawn up on the basis of a finalized concept. I would like to briefly describe the basic provisions of the bill concerning the regulatory system of the model of use protection, grouped around the following three main themes. The subject-matter of the model of use and the clarification of the conditions of protection; in particular, to clarify what can be a model, what the required level of creation is, and what belongs to the state of technology, and what kind of cord should be used to determine the level of knowledge of a professional person. The second main subject relates to changes in the legislation of the model of use procedure, and the third contains amendments aimed at reducing the anomalies associated with enforcement. As regards the subject matter of the model of use, the public consultation prior to the review of the law confirmed that, in order to facilitate the application of the law, it is appropriate to adapt the regulation by extending the definition of the model of use, on the one hand, in such a way that, based on a broad interpretation of the word "appliance', it can include equipment and systems consisting of several devices which are currently excluded from the design of use. On the other hand, it is necessary to supplement the law with chemical products and mixtures specifically excluded from the scope of protection, covering the entire spectrum of medicinal products and medicinal products. On the subject of the required creative level, during the consultation, the majority of respondents agreed that it was necessary to maintain a derogation from the creative level for patentable inventions required for the establishment of the inventor's activity in order to provide a sample of use, in order to determine the inventor's step. This position is justified by the fact that one of the important elements of the pattern of use protection is the possibility of obtaining protection for innovative solutions at a slightly lower level than patentable inventions. At the same time, while maintaining the inventor's activity and the two categories of the inventor's step, it was necessary to increase the knowledge level of the professional person known in the pattern protection law to a very low level determined by the current judicial practice. Thus, the proposal makes it clear that the obviousness from the point of view of the person familiar with the craft, if other conditions are met, should also be established in cases where it results from a combination of multiple anterosities or where the state of the technique includes foreign language resources. Another substantial difference in the preconditions for the protection of the sample compared to patents is the different definition of the scope of the techniques ofleriorities. This difference can also result in the fact that a world-wide non-new and therefore non-patentable solution can still be protected as a model of use in Hungary. In view of the technological development of the period since the creation of the law and the specificities of the information society and the results of market liberalisation of European integration and international trends, it seemed appropriate to abolish this derogation, i.e. to regulate the legal definition of the state of the art, as set out in the patent law, even if the difference in the level of the creator is maintained. As regards the legislation on the model of use procedure, during the consultation, the majority of the professional respondents took the view that the regulation was not sufficiently transparent and that the full pattern of use should be governed by the law on the right of use, while maintaining procedural preferences. In this respect, however, it is not necessarily appropriate to deviate conceptually from the structure of existing and industrial property legislation, i.e. the application of the procedural provisions of the Patent Protection Act as the underlying regulation, compared to which only differences are defined in the specific laws. At the same time, the norm requires that it is clear to the customers which legal bases should be applied in the case in question, so the amended law makes the differences in the pattern protection procedure clearer and lists them in one place. In view of the fact that the application for a model of use is not made on the basis of a full examination and that the attractiveness of this form of protection lies precisely in the simplicity and speed of the procedure, the bill sets narrower time limits than those laid down in the patent law and sets shorter possible durations for the customer. However, these restrictions are without prejudice to the legal institution of the application to continue the proceedings against the failure of the client and the procedural preferences for the enforcement of priority, which remain available in the patent proceedings as is known. The bill breaks with the element of the legislation in force, which excludes the possibility of obtaining patent and model protection for the same subject matter. Under the provisions in force, protection of samples and patent protection is excluded even if applications are derived from each other, regardless of whether the two protections may be granted with different protections where appropriate. However, there is no ban on double protection where patent and model protection applications lodged on the same day have the same subject matter and parallel protection is also not excluded in relation to two national patent applications on the same subject and on the same day and European and national patents. [[15.20]] In order to clarify the procedural rules and to clarify the differences in relation to the patent procedure, the proposal re-regulates and expands the rules on the application for a sample protection, the recognition of the notification date and the examination following the submission of the application. The proposal simplifies the rules of the model protection procedure on a number of points, thus allowing for the speedy acquisition of rights. The proposal introduces the possibility of requesting a protection opinion similar to a novelty research report, accompanied by a written opinion known from the patent procedure, drawn up on request by the National Intellectual Property Office. The protection opinion may adequately compensate for the partial examination of the use model protection, i.e. the lack of testing of novelty and inventor steps. In the patent procedure, this option has been available to whistleblowers since 2005 and, on the basis of experience, it is useful to help develop a protection strategy. In relation to enforcement procedures relating to model protections, i.e. model protection lawsuits, measures will be put in place to strengthen and accelerate consistency of procedures at the same time, while contributing to greater legal certainty. In this context, the proposal first provides that infringement proceedings should be suspended if an annulment procedure has been initiated in respect of the protection of the sample and this is justified within a reasonable period of time. In this context, it is worth mentioning that the institution of the protection opinion already presented is expected to reduce the risk of abusive enforcement, since it is not likely that the existence of protection is based on the absence of an investigation. Although the proposal does not alter the separation of the forum for infringement and annulment proceedings, the provision of the proposal on the basis of which the court, on the basis of the defendant's objection to the nullity of the sample right, also examines the validity of the protection of the sample and, if the conditions for the annulment of the sample right are met, rejects the action. This bill is not only a proposal for a regulation on the protection of patterns of use in 1991 XXXVIII. The aim is to amend law, but also to amend Law C of 2012 on Criminal Code by eliminating the criminal threat of infringement of the pattern of use. This is necessary because, neither in the light of enforcement experience nor on the basis of legal policy considerations, it is not appropriate to maintain a criminal penalty in the event of an infringement of the exclusive right acquired without a substantive examination of the conditions of protection. Abolishing the threat to criminal law does not result in a reduction in the means of civil law, but it adequately reflects the fact that, apart from the difference in the term of protection, the protection granted cannot be fully complied with by the patent's legal institution. At the same time, the proposal removes the threat to criminal law in relation to the topography of semiconductor products, given the virtually empty nature of this form of protection and the lack of international or EU legal obligations to maintain criminal protection in this case. Dear House, The above-mentioned bill needs to be adopted in order to better meet the needs of the user community. The adoption of the bill contributes to increasing the role of this form of protection of industrial property in national business development and economic recovery. I therefore request that, after discussing it, the bill be supported in the vote with your consent. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-19-101	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-09-19-102	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In the age of a knowledge-based global economy and the information society, the protection of intellectual property has become a key element of a business environment that stimulates business-friendly and innovation, a fundamental competitiveness issue. The best chance to stimulate economic growth is to embrace innovation and creativity. Intellectual property which provides legal protection for intellectual results has a key role to play here. The effective protection of the national knowledge base and cultural wealth can only be guaranteed by a modern intellectual property system. Intellectual property provides a return on R &amp; D expenditure, investment in high-tech and cultural industries, as well as on expenditure necessary for marketing and consumer confidence. This will contribute to economic growth, competitiveness and job creation. Intellectual property is therefore a versatile tool for promoting economic and social development and ensuring the growth of the nation. In order to use this tool in a targeted, efficient and conscious way, a systematic review of the situation of intellectual property and the orientations along which intellectual property can boost our economy and our culture towards development and growth are essential. This requires an accurate, reliable map, i.e. a health check of the domestic relations of intellectual property and a well-established compass, i.e. a strategy that sets clear lines of action to further develop the IPR system, in such a way as to support as far as possible the implementation of national policy and related policies. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The national strategy for the protection of intellectual property adopted by a government decision, i.e. the Jedlik Plan, from which I quoted earlier, defined as a strategic objective the mapping of the possibilities for further development of the model of use protection system and its fine-tuning in line with the needs of customers, in order to improve the chances of domestic industrial property protection protection. This assessment should cover the real interests and special needs of domestic SMEs, as well as the relationship between patent and model of use rights, both in terms of substantive and procedural terms. I consider it very important that, in order to provide a professional basis for the revision of the model of use system and to assess the needs of the social and economic operators concerned, a debate questionnaire was published prior to preparing the legislative amendment. It was then possible to comment on the legislative concept, which took into account the results of the consultation. The proposed amendment, which is the subject of this proposal, has been drawn up on the basis of a finalised concept. So is T/17307. It is also apparent from the general justification of the bill No 1 that the protection of patterns of use as a form of industrial property protection, which can be obtained quickly and cost-effectively compared to patents, plays an important role in the development of national entrepreneurship and economic recovery. The range of protective solutions is narrower compared to patentable inventions, and the level of creation required for protection is lower, but the protection of the pattern is accompanied by a shorter period of protection. As a result of what has been said, the form of protection is used by domestic notifiers to more than 90%, who, thanks to the less formalised procedure, can quickly and simply obtain domestic exclusive rights to ensure the return of development expenditure. It is therefore very forward-looking that, in order to adapt the substantive provisions on the protection of patterns of use, to clarify and fine-tune the conditions of protection, the proposal clearly sets out what may constitute a sample, extending the definition of the sample and adding a list of non-sample objects to the state of the art and the level of cord to be used in determining the level of knowledge of the person familiar with the profession. [[15.30]] The bill also clarifies the relationship between the model of use and the patent and eliminates the exclusion of double protection. Making the regulation of the sample protection procedure more transparent and more suited to the specificities of the legal institution can make this form even more popular among domestic businesses. The standard text clarifies where the general rules of the administrative procedure should apply and where the rules of the patent procedure should be applied, and establishes rules for the model protection procedure where minor or greater practical derogations from the patent procedure justify this. Closed by the words of Ányos Jedlik, my speech is: "There is no other power on Earth than the magical power of science, which could make and secure the welfare of both some and republics so desired. I trust that Hungary's competitiveness will be further strengthened by the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-19-103	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-09-19-104	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal to amend the rules on the protection of patterns of use is indeed a very thorough work, and especially if it is accompanied by any other material protection benefits, it will certainly have a good impact on the protection of domestic intellectual property, and the modest figures presented by the Secretary of State from the last three years will increase later, similarly to the increase in Hungarian intellectual property. Protection of patterns of use is a form of industrial property protection which can be obtained significantly faster and cost-effective than patents for technical improvements that are simpler than inventions. The government decree already mentioned by the Fidesz Member, which they like to name and call the Jedlik Plan... - make no mistake, I also have great respect for Ányos Jedlik, but the fact that they refer to such a thing in his name may not be so eligible. In any event, this Government Decision has developed a useful programme, including the development of the model of use system and the refining of it in line with the customer's needs. In order to achieve the objectives, the present proposal clarifies the conditions of protection as to what could be a model, what is involved in this field in relation to today's state of the art. It makes the rules of procedure much more transparent and adapts them to the specificities of the legal institution, which is very important, because it is not worth much to be protected if its rules of procedure are unmanageable. It also adapts the concept of the model law to the concept of intellectual property. It introduces provisions to reduce the abusive use of possession actions, including the elimination of criminal threats to possession of patterns of use. It also includes the establishment of institutions. This is published by the National Intellectual Property Office as a result of a novelty research following the entry into force of the law. As I mentioned, and he was also in the national expo, here he was, after a social consultation, quite rightly, presented this bill. This proposal and the draft thereof were published by the Ministry of Justice on 10 March and, according to the justification, was preceded by a very thorough questionnaire survey. However, the proposal is rather strange. The provision of §8 of the Act, which arises here, is that the court can also examine the validity of the protection of a sample in the case of the protection of a sample, which is good so far, but has an effect only on the parties. So if someone announces a problem, then the relationship between the two parties can be examined by the court and can decide for the benefit of someone. With effect from all, i.e. the strengthening or abolition of the protection of a sample, only the national agency of intellectual products can decide on the basis of this law. With this, the normal relations between the administration and the administration of justice between the rule of law and, let us say, the Anglo-Saxon in practice, namely that the judgment of the court obliges the public authorities to follow certain practices, this proposal breaks through. So you're narrowing down the court's decision to the one case he's judging in the relationship between two parties. There is no doubt that the national agency of intellectual products can do so regardless of the judicial decision, so it will sometimes judge the validity of the model protection. We don't think that's right. The submission itself states in its reasoning that the rejection of the infringement action does not mean that, on the basis of the judgment of the court, the model protection should be automatically removed from the register by the national agency of intellectual products without any further procedure or investigation. The question arises why the court cannot decide if it clarifies a legal situation, an annulment, if it otherwise examines the existence of the conditions for annulment in the case. How much more does the National Office of Intellectual Products know so that it can then depart from the judgment of the court? Why are you so afraid of the office's authority? We believe that it would be more appropriate to follow the usual rule of law here, if the court decides on a question, then it can have a general impact. At the same time, we see the merits of the professional work behind this proposal, but at the same time it cannot be ignored that even the registration of inventions can be surrounded by a strange, possibly corruption-prone solution. Shortly before that, and at the development stage, the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff is also an inventor in connection with the invention of digital signatures, Hunguard Kft., who is already working with a serious government backwind in connection with the construction of e-administration. in addition to its owners, the patenters of digital signatures; which is, of course, not the subject of a parliamentary debate to judge what inventive abilities and inventive activities Antal Rogán has, however, it is difficult to imagine in his spare time that he even deals with a patent guaranteeing the mysteries of digital signatures. [[15.40]] So it would be good to have such a forward-looking professional goal in the field of intellectual property protection in a clean environment. In all these respects, we believe that we will in no way vote against this bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-09-19-105	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-09-19-106	Mr President, Ladies and Gentlemen, This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The National Strategy for the Protection of Intellectual Property, adopted by Government Decision No 21, identified as a strategic objective the mapping of the possibilities for further development of the model of use protection system and its fine tuning to suit the needs of customers in order to improve the chances of domestic industrial property protection protection. This investigation covered the real interests and special needs of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, as well as the relationship between patent and model of use, both in substantive and procedural terms. Ladies and Gentlemen, The main directions of the amendment can be summarised as follows: adapting the substantive provisions on the protection of patterns of use, clarifying and fine-tuning the conditions of protection, clarifying the rights of use and the relationship between the patent, eliminating the exclusion of double protection, making the regulation of the protection of a sample more transparent and more appropriate to the specificities of the legal institution, reducing anomalies in enforcement related to the reduction of abusive use of the ownership framework, decriminating the possession of patterns of use, enforcing procedural economic aspects and optional strengthening of protection. I do not wish to be more specific than that, as the Secretary of State and my fellow Member have already done so. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill eliminates the criminal threat of possession of patterns of use by amending Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code, since, in the light of enforcement experience and on the basis of legal policy considerations, it is not justified to maintain a criminal penalty in the event of an infringement of the exclusive right acquired without a substantive examination of the conditions of protection. The proposal also eliminates the threat to criminal law in relation to the protection of topography of misleading products, given that the nature of this form of protection is almost entirely empty in practice. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Christian Democratic People's Party supports the bill. Please, support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-19-107	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2017-09-19-108	Mr President, thank you very much for the opportunity and the word. As many of my fellow Members have already said before me on the protection of patterns of use, this is a rapidly accessible and cost-effective form of industrial property protection, which plays an important role in business development and economic recovery. This is the nature of this law that should have been retained, and in our view, with a little overregulation, this is precisely what the form of industrial property protection will lose. In fact, more than 90 percent is used by domestic notifiers, and it was understood in domestic terms - this has already been said here earlier - and there is a change in the state of the technology that, when put into practice, it is excluded from domestic exposure, so it is not a condition to be made available to anyone by means of domestic practice, and it is no longer an obstacle to taking it into practice abroad. The government's objective is to clarify the substantive provisions on the protection of patterns of use and the conditions of protection, or to determine what constitutes or does not belong to a sample, or to determine exactly how the state of technology, as I mentioned earlier, can be defined, the more precise regulation of the procedure itself, in principle the clarification of the procedure, in practice, will reveal whether it will actually result in harmonisation with the patent law. There is some contradiction here in the fact that they want to make sure that this legislation is not a small patent in relation to the right to a model of use, but they are trying to harmonise it in almost everything, in the patent law. This harmonisation of legislation has its advantages and disadvantages. Technically, if we look at the legislation itself, perhaps one of the most important differences is that it expands the subject of the model of use protection, and the scope of excluded innovations, of course, in the case of chemical products and mixtures. So far, this has been ruled out only by the application of the law or by the law, and is now included in the text of the law; the technical justification on the side of the patent office indicates that it was precisely a counter-lobbie by the pharmaceutical industry, according to which the model of use was intended to be extended to this area. In comparison, the exclusion of chemical products and mixtures from the use model protection was finally included in the legislation. Technically, as I mentioned earlier, the domestic output related to the state of the art was out of practice. This is strange for us because, as I have already said, 90% of domestic users have used the rules on this model of usage. But in the patent, the novelty must exist at international level, while in the case of a model of use, it was only domestic, and this would now be changed by the legislation with the above mentioned condition and the abolition of the domestic clause from the legislation. What is also important to mention is that the inventor's quality of the patent is quite different, there it is measured to the level of the professional, and in the case of the pattern of use, the professional is defined by law as a term technician. This, however, should not lead to his being degraded. The fact that the protected procedure cannot in itself be based on the fact that the technical position is determined jointly by several sources, so that the position of the technique is determined in whole or in part by foreign-language sources, does not in itself establish the existence of an inventor's step. We could practically agree with these clarifications if the aim really was to develop innovation in industrial property protection procedures and to help to develop new solutions as much as possible. However, weakening the usage pattern as an institution does not mean that we will achieve this goal. If we take out several products, procedures or groups of users and complicate the procedure itself or increase the administration a little, this does not necessarily help to increase innovation, because if one feels that the procedure discovered by him is not sufficiently protected by intellectual protection, by the right to intellectual protection in civil law, then he will not be practically interested in investing money and energy in innovation or investing his energy in the development of different procedures. [[15.50]] The same is true of the removal from the Criminal Code of the pattern of use, since so far, the Btk. It has regulated it, but it will no longer be possible to do so, except in the context of civil proceedings, which I also think could weaken this institution further. Overall, our position is that the objectives of the legislation itself, as set out in the general statement of reasons, would be forward-looking, but, in a textual presentation of the law itself, we often find changes or amendments leading to the opposite effect or the opposite result, as I have described above. Of course, the contradictions of this could perhaps be avoided, I think, even with amendments; obviously, if we tabled a motion, a motion acceptable to Parliament, then we will ask for the support of this Parliament later. For now, I think that our position, the position of the Group of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary, is somewhere between the abstention and the vote in favour, and we will finalise our position on the basis of later. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-19-109	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As independent Members do not take part in the debate, no one has made a two-minute speech, it is now possible to speak, if there is a demand for this from my fellow Members. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to react now. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 2016 CXXX on the Civil Procedure is on the line. a joint general debate on the amendments to certain laws relating to the entry into force of law and on the rules applicable in court civil non-court proceedings and on certain non-court proceedings and on the application of legal aid and the right to record costs in civil and administrative court proceedings until closure. Government referrals T/17165, T/17166. and T/17167. available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2017-09-19-110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The three legislative proposals that the Honourable Parliament will begin to negotiate today are CXXX of 2016 on the Civil Procedure adopted on 22 November 2016. Law, hereinafter referred to as the new Pp. It aims to ensure the smooth implementation of its entry into force on 1 January 2018 and to preserve the coherence and consistency of the legal system. Let us be the first to make the most extensive proposal, the 2016 CXXX on civil order. I would like to present to you a proposal to amend certain laws relating to the entry into force of law. The civil order does not only refer to the provisions of a law containing general rules on civil proceedings or to certain special proceedings, but also to a number of litigation and non-court proceedings, as well as to other laws. The new Pp. A thorough review of the legal system has therefore become necessary after its adoption in order to bring the provisions of other legislation into line with its rules. Where the change of legislation was not justified, it was maintained by Article III of the 1952 Civil Procedure Act. the rules of the law. At the same time, in the renewable areas of procedural regulation, a conceptual change in the regulatory mode, the introduction of new legal institutions and changes in the detailed rules of the old legal institutions made it necessary to revise the whole legal system. The new Pp. has introduced a number of innovations which have also led to fundamental changes in the laws referring to the provisions of civil procedure. The proposal amends 73 laws related to the new Pp., including large-scale, code-level laws such as the tax law, bankruptcy law, company law, the law on succession proceedings, the law on payment order proceedings. Some of the amendments contained in the proposal can be considered to be of a technical nature when reference is made to Annex III of the 1952 Civil Procedure Act. CXXX of 2016 on civil procedure instead of referring to law. a reference to the law is displayed by exchanging texts. Most of the amendments, however, represent a change in content requiring careful consideration, since the new Pp had to be adapted to the rules of litigation and non-court proceedings laid down in individual laws. to its divided structure, changed regulatory logic or terminology. In this context, we have discussed several rounds with the professional wallets, the OBH, the National Court Office, the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the National Intellectual Property Office, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, the Hungarian National Chamber of Notaries and representatives of other social organisations such as expert bodies. CXXX 2016 on the Civil Procedure is closely linked. In order to submit amendments to certain laws relating to the entry into force of law, the other proposal of the legislative package, a proposal on the rules applicable in court civil non-court proceedings and certain non-court proceedings. The proposal consists of two parts: chapters containing general and specific rules. The general part sets out the general provisions applicable to civil non-court proceedings falling within the jurisdiction of a court. In particular, civil non-court proceedings concerning personal status and family law are included in the proposal. The importance of the general part of the submission is that it summarises in one place, in one legislation, different rules from the new Pp. with regard to the particularities of civil non-court proceedings, which apply in all court proceedings, unless otherwise provided for in the law governing the procedure in question. Already in the codification of the civil order, there was a need to lay down common rules for civil non-court proceedings following a large number of and diverse procedures as general rules for non-court proceedings, but the new Pp. In its codification, it was also decided that this regulation would not have an appropriate place in the Code of Procedure, so that a separate law was required. In this respect, the proposal can be regarded as a code of judicial civil non-court proceedings, which fills an old deficit because both notary and administrative non-court proceedings have been regulated by such code laws for years. It is important to point out that the proposal lays down rules only for civil non-court proceedings falling within the jurisdiction of the court, nor does the proposal apply to non-court proceedings falling within the competence of notaries or to administrative non-court proceedings. In the design of the regulation, it was a challenge that the number of non-court proceedings falling within the jurisdiction of the Court, based on the 2016 statistics, exceeded one million, of which nearly 700 thousand are civil cases. These procedures are also very different in nature, there are more than one hundred types of civil non-court proceedings. The heterogeneous nature of these non-court proceedings justifies the fact that the bill only displays the most important rules, which constitute a derogation from the new Pp., which apply to all civil non-court proceedings, with the exception of course. Among these, it should be pointed out that non-court proceedings do not separate themselves into litigation and substantive negotiation, which may seem obvious, even though there are expressly litigation proceedings where the court takes evidence and holds a hearing, for example in the field of intellectual property protection and industrial property protection, so provision had to be made for the split litigation to not even be applied in litigation. [[16.00]] Also important differences in the new Pp. the rules of the Court of Justice of the European Union concerning the fact that, in principle, there is no room for the application of a private expert in civil non-court proceedings, because the new Pp construction is based on the existence of the opposing parties, the contrast, there is typically no conflicting party in non-court proceedings. In addition, provision should be made for the exclusion of, as a general rule, a period of time for litigation in civil non-court proceedings which can be interpreted in principle there. In the specific part of the proposal, five non-court proceedings concerning personal and family law will be regulated. These civil non-court proceedings, which have so far been regulated at regulatory level, should be governed by law in the light of Article I (3) of the Fundamental Law, according to which rules on fundamental rights and obligations can only be laid down by law. It should also be borne in mind that the current rules for certain procedures laid down in the proposal were established in the '50s and '60s, so that their revision and updating is timely. The proposal includes the procedure for declaring a dead person and determining the fact of death affecting human rights. If adopted, the rules of the proposal are 1/1960 on the procedure for declaring dead and determining the fact of death. They will replace the IM Regulation. According to social security legislation, disappearing is also a death in respect of benefits under the law of a relative if it is established by the court as final, so the rules for declaring him missing also require legislation at the level of law, which gives rise to rules referring to the declaration of death procedure. In the event of adoption of the proposal, Article III of the 1952 Civil Procedure Act. 105/1952 on the provisions necessary for the entry into force of law Replaces the rules of the MT Regulation. The new Pp. When it was created, it was an important goal that, as far as possible, the law only contains the rules of litigation, so it is no longer included in the Ptk. at the time of its entry into force, the year 1952, III. Law XVI/A The procedure for the annulment of the presumption of fatherhood in a non-court procedure, which is included in Chapter II of the Act, is therefore included in the proposal. It requires regulation at the level of law, inseparable from the spouses' personal relations, judicial non-court proceedings aimed at abolishing the conjugal community of property on a joint request under the matrimonial community. This procedure is in accordance with the rules in force with Article III of the 1952 Civil Procedure Act. 105/1952 on the provisions necessary for the entry into force of law Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2009 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the Community institutions and bodies and on the free movement of such data (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). In the event of the adoption of the proposal, the non-court proceedings aimed at abolishing the community of conjugal property will replace the outdated regulation in several respects and will provide clear rules on when the termination of the community of property is subject to litigation and, in which cases, to a non-court procedure, the Ptk will establish consistency. The provisions of this Regulation shall also apply. As I referred to earlier, the proposal is closely linked to the 2016 CXXX on Civil Procedure. to propose amendments to certain laws relating to the entry into force of law. The reason for this is that the rules of the bill have already been established subject to the provisions of the non-court bill, so some court proceedings modified therein already contain a reference to the non-court bill as the underlying source of law. The rules of non-court proceedings falling within the competence of notaries have also been laid down in accordance with the rules of non-court proceedings. The third element of the legislative package is the presentation of the application of legal aid and the right to record costs in civil and administrative court proceedings. The obligation of the State to operate an institutional system under which aid may be granted to the parties to the dispute in order to ensure that enforcement is not hindered by a lack of legal knowledge or by the fact that the party is unable to pay the costs incurred in the proceedings because of its income and property situation. In view of this, the Law on Legal Assistance provides for legal representation, either in court or out-of-court, and exempts the beneficiary from the advance or payment of the costs of representation. On the other hand, the levy law and the individual procedural laws provide for reductions in costs resulting in exemptions from the advance or payment of the costs incurred by the proceedings. The new Pp belongs to the latter law. also, which is familiar with and regulates cost reductions, including legal aid and the right to record costs, in line with the current rules. Pp. However, it also contains rules on the content, duration and jurisdiction of the court in respect of these two cost reductions, which refer to specific legislation. Accordingly, the proposal, by establishing detailed rules for legal aid and the right to record costs, ensures that the right to appeal to a court under the Fundamental Law also effectively applies to those who, due to their income and property conditions, are unable to cover the costs necessarily incurred in the course of the proceedings. Due to the differences in living conditions to be regulated, the detailed provisions governing legal aid and the right to record costs cannot be incorporated into the Law on Legal Assistance governing the Tax Act governing tax reductions and the Discount on Patronage Representations. In particular, the existence of independent legislation is justified by the fact that Pp. the entry into force of this Regulation does not change the decision-making that is a broken down in the legal assistance system. Legal aid and the right to register costs are decided by the court and by the legal assistance service on the insurance of the patron's representation and the associated reduction in costs. Cost reductions are legal institutions requiring guarantee regulation, so the proposal lays down the provisions at a legal level, replacing the regulation at the current level of regulation and the application of legal aid in court proceedings with the title 6/1986. IM decree. The basic objective of the proposal is therefore to ensure effective access to justice by laying down the detailed rules of legal aid and the right to record costs which are inherent in the proceedings and which can be obtained in the light of the income and property of the party. The proposal does not fundamentally change the scope of the procedures preferred with a material discount. The proposal provides for a reduction in costs, irrespective of income and property conditions, in which the legal relationship to be assessed is of social importance or where there is no alternative to the procedure. The proposal significantly renews the regulation of personal, therefore essentially income and asset-related, cost reductions. On the one hand, it adapts the conditions for granting the benefits to the conditions for the authorisation of a patron's representation. This simplifies the procedure to justify personal circumstances if the party is required to be represented by a lawyer and is not able to advance or pay the costs incurred in the course of the proceedings. On the other hand, the proposal allows a much wider range of seekers to benefit from a cost reduction compared to the existing system, by making the right to register personal costs as an independent form of discount and by setting conditions for authorisation. The new benefit, which has not been known as a separate form of benefit so far and which is exempt from the advance on costs, is approximately two and a half times the income limit of the only individual benefit so far, personal legal aid. In the case of a personal right to record costs authorised by the court, the party shall also be deemed to be in need of authorisation for a patron's representation. In view of this, legal representation by legal assistance services is expected to be much wider. [[16.10]] The proposal therefore provides for the effective exercise of the right of access to the courts of persons in need with a wide range of personal rights to record costs. It shall make personal legal aid which is exempt from the payment of fees and charges available only to persons who are not able to cover the costs at all. Finally, the new legislation also serves the timeliness of court proceedings, as it does not allow room for litigation techniques related to the application for reimbursement of costs. The legislative proposals drawn up by the Ministry of Justice with the involvement of professional wallets and submitted to the Honourable Parliament are widely agreed and well prepared proposals, which I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss and adopt. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-19-111	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-09-19-112	Mr President, Dear House, According to the concept of the new civil order, the aim of the review was to establish a modern civil law code, which is consistent with international practice and expectations, which ensures effective enforcement of substantive rights and which, based on the results of law and case law, regulates litigation in a transparent, coherent manner, taking into account the achievements of technology, thus facilitating the situation of law-seekers and professional audiences. The three legislative proposals before us have no other purpose than CXXX of 2016 on the civil order that has now been adopted and will enter into force on 1 January 2018. It aims to ensure the smooth implementation of law and to preserve the coherence and consistency of the legal system. The T/17165. CXXX of 2016 on the Civil Procedure. The proposal to amend certain laws relating to the entry into force of law also indicates in its title that it will necessarily introduce subsequent changes to the legal system from the new Pp. I think it is important to stress that, in this case, it is not just a matter of introducing simple technical changes, but the conceptual changes in the new Pp. have required a considerable reflection on the part of the author in relation to the whole legal system and, of course, it is necessary to adapt the regulatory instruments of the legal system to the new set of rules in order to achieve coherence. The proposal amends 73 laws related to the new Pp., including large-scale, code-level laws such as the tax law, bankruptcy law, company law, the law on succession proceedings, the law on payment order proceedings. Given the specific nature of the proceedings, I find it reassuring that the Ministry of Justice has also agreed with the law enforcement authorities. T/17166 is also closely linked to the entry into force of the new civil procedure. A proposal on the rules applicable in court civil non-court proceedings and certain non-court proceedings. The bill makes up for an old shortage. It can also be considered as a code of judicial civil proceedings. It is important to point out that the proposal lays down rules only for civil non-court proceedings falling within the jurisdiction of the court, and that the text submitted does not apply to non-court proceedings falling within the competence of notaries and to administrative non-court proceedings. The significance of the legislation, mentioned by the Secretary of State, is that the number of non-court proceedings falling within the jurisdiction of the Court exceeded one million in 2016, of which the number of civil cases was nearly 700 thousand. The heterogeneous nature of these non-court proceedings justifies the fact that the bill only displays the most important rules, which constitute a derogation from the new Pp., which apply to all civil non-court proceedings, with the exception of course. In addition, in the specific part of the bill, five non-court proceedings concerning personal status and family law will be regulated. It was also very timely for the 50's and 60's regulations to be replaced by legislation. In addition to the outdated legislation, the Fundamental Law also obliges us to change, whether it is the declaration of death procedure or the abolition of the conjugal community on a joint request. The third presentation of the joint general debate is set out in section T/1716. Proposal on the application of legal aid and the right to record costs in civil and administrative court proceedings. The purpose of the amendment is to ensure that the right to appeal to the court is also effectively applicable to those who, due to their income and property conditions, are unable to cover the costs incurred in the proceedings. Accordingly, the proposal significantly renews the regulation of personal, therefore essentially income and property-related, cost reductions. It adapts the conditions for granting the benefits to the conditions of authorisation of the patron's representation, simplifies the procedure to justify personal circumstances if the party needs a patron's representation and is not able to advance or pay the costs incurred in the course of the trial. On the other hand, the right of personal registration as a form of self-preservation and the definition of conditions for authorisation allow a much wider range of seekers to benefit from the benefit of costs than the system in force. The income limit for the new benefit, which has not been known as an autonomous form of benefit and which is exempt from the advance on costs, is about two and a half times the income limit for the only individual benefit so far, personal legal aid. I note that the new legislation also serves the timeliness of court proceedings. It eliminates the possibility of litigation techniques related to the application for a discount. Overall, all three legislative proposals make it possible to carry out rapid and effective procedures that meet the challenges of the age, in line with the rules of the new civil procedure, to facilitate the daily lives of citizens. I therefore ask that you support the proposals submitted. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-19-113	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-09-19-114	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I agree with the lead speaker of Fidesz that these laws, these laws, and, in particular, the proposal to amend certain laws relating to the entry into force of the Civil Procedure Act, are, both in terms of concept and content, significantly and even very closely linked to the adopted civil order. Obviously this is not surprising by its nature, but I think it is not surprising that a faction which had serious reservations in principle and in practice with the Civil Procedure Act will therefore not support the bill before us. You will not support it because, indeed, as Congressman Salacz said, not only is it closely related to it, but the new Pp. In the wake of the new Pp. On the basis of the principles represented in its adoption, it introduces a series of innovations in line with those principles, and since, I say again, we disagreed, we still disagree. In addition - and I would like to quote a few of these - but it does not touch laws that, in our view, it should have touched which, in fact, in the interest of society, it would have been time to change if it hadn't been for another time, well now, the new Pp. in the context of its entry into force. [[16.20]] I am very pleased that you were in agreement with the legislator, and I would only hope that what we have just heard from the Fidesz Members, because that is what they said about the Pp. at the time, and it turned out that this was not the case. There was indeed a version of the draft Civil Procedure Act, and what was said, by the way, by the way, that the majority of the more than one hundred members of the professional community and the law-abiding people, that it was okay then, that you arbitraryly changed it at the last minute, and that the proposal that was tabled had nothing to do with what you agreed on in a number of places. If this negotiation is like this now, then it is a pity to refer to it. So I sincerely hope that this discussion has been at least a little more serious and that the law that has been submitted to Parliament has indeed been agreed with the law that has been applied and its experts, not something else in substance. But let me tell you one or two of the specifics that we miss very much from this law. Thus, the part of the proposal concerning bankruptcy law remains unchanged again, and thus the victims of the known broker scandals will remain the same as in the present case. None of the innumerable amendments to the law on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings have been considered permanent, which you have submitted, but in essence, which might have helped these victims, and we have suggested it, and as far as I know, other opposition parties, no change. Neither you nor Fidesz have contributed to the order of satisfaction, so the tens of thousands of injured Hungarian families have been abandoned and abandoned by the entry into force of this law. I do not dare to think that there is something deliberate about this, because in recent times it has been found that the Attorney General's office is indeed a bank and represents banks in cases that need to be dealt with in lawsuits against small investors. So here, if you will, your office was at least against getting the victims' money. I sincerely hope that these laws are not therefore so incomplete and do not represent the interests of debtors. Another, which is also, if I want to play with the words, I can say that it was a failure on your part, and I am referring mainly to the KDNP Group, and this is the introduction of the private failure institution, which, however we drill and carve here in Parliament, we cannot practically make operational. And this proposal does not change your privacy system in any way. It'll be nicer, but it's as incompetent in practice as it's ever been. I would also like to refer here to the amendment of the law on the court register of civil society organisations, which, of course, comes to mind first the campaign against civilians - as a stigmatisation as a foreign agent. Well, we haven't made any progress here in the positive direction on this proposal. So in Hungarian, the institutions that are related to the new Pp. are basically not supported by us, and which I specifically highlighted, I think that today's social problems would indeed have been dealt with, and here the government has not moved its ears. The proposals that have been brought up by the opposition, or by civilians, do not wish to hear them, do not want to incorporate them into the Hungarian legal system, but now, in this situation, it is time to do so. Today, the victims of broker scandals are protesting on a daily basis outside Kossuth Square. It's the government's responsibility. It would be the government's responsibility here to resolve this situation, but it's not doing it now. Let me turn over quite briefly... - and I do it briefly because, as I said, because the fund is not good, so what we build on cannot be supported with good heart, even if we consider certain elements of it to be professionally correct. So, where we have experienced specifically the aforementioned hyates and problems, the faction will vote no. Where there are professionally eligible proposals, but they are, of course, based on the logic of the new civil order, and we will stay there. These include, for example, the proposal on rules applicable to non-court proceedings. As a positive point, it is worth pointing out that these rules are today rising to a legislative level compared to regulation level and, of course, the adoption of such a set of rules is justified when adopting a new civil procedure. I do not wish to say much more about this, because, once again, this is closely related to Pp., and therefore, although we agree on the proposal in many places in terms of professional solutions, we will decide to abstain in the vote. Finally, the law on the application of legal aid and the right to record costs in civil and administrative court proceedings. It's a bit similar, but I'd like to say more about it than about the previous bill. Here, too, it is natural for such a proposal to be submitted by Pp. in the context of its entry into force. It is right that the number of cases is increasing, where legal aid must be granted without further consideration, and here, I think, the staff has also been well defined, although the story can obviously be expanded; a homeless person with temporary accommodation, who is entitled to special legal aid, is entitled to regular child protection benefits for the child in care, and the rest. So here I think that enlargement is right. The proposal includes the new Pp. the legislation of the personal statement of costs to be introduced by the Member State concerned, i.e. the right to record costs, whose net disposable income does not exceed 30% of the gross monthly earnings of the national economy and has no assets. The court may also grant a right to record costs to a person whose advance on costs would result in a burden that is not proportionate to his income and property. We also consider this to be particularly correct and that the proposal gives the judge a briefing to determine income and wealth. Here, which must be deducted, I also think that they are justified, and I am thinking of alimony in particular, and in view of the monthly details of the credit debt where, say, the person resides, so what is justified. But it is also right that it is not all about credit, but, of course, here it is bound by the limits I have said. What I have said is that given that the system of cost reductions has a significant impact on the possibility of effective enforcement of law-seeking citizens, it is right to regulate at legal level and to provide a wider opportunity for legal aid. However, what I would highlight here as a negative, and I am sure that it would change my vote yes in itself, even if I didn't have another problem, so let's just say how this relates to Pp. is that it keeps it, and it doesn't have a problem in itself, but it retains the mandatory authorisation of personal legal aid without consideration that if the party's net income doesn't exceed the minimum amount of the full old-age pension at all and doesn't have any assets. Well, it's such a tight circle, Mr. Secretary of State, for now, that you could practically safely have pulled it out of the law that there is such a thing. For ten years - once again, ten years - it has not increased, so since 2008, the minimum rate of the old-age pension has remained 28 500 HUF. [[16.30]] I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary, who, in practice, is making a net less than HUF 28 500. You already think that public workers make double the amount, don't you? [[Dr. Pál Völner: More.]] Or more. Then who's gonna fall into this circle? I think there would have been a reason for what's been waiting for you for ten years. Along with this package of laws, of course, other laws could have been amended to increase the minimum amount of old-age pension from HUF 28 500 to something normal. That's what's waiting for you. I can tell you that this is a far more far-reaching social problem than legal aid. But if this comes up again, it should be highlighted and justified. Either I can tell you that this is not the level of legal aid that should have been bound to the civil order, or I can tell you that, until this has risen substantially, this should not have been the case temporarily. So basically I can say that this provision can be pulled out of here, because anyone who earns less than HUF 28 500 in Hungarian society almost doesn't. Unfortunately, there is, but it is an extremely narrow circle, and I think it is unfair for citizens seeking rights to make this possible. Dear Secretary of State, Overall, I can say that in line with the first proposal, which is directly in Pp. It is linked to its entry into force, we do not support the rules applicable to non-court proceedings, which contain things that are forward-looking, we cannot support it, but we can abstain on the proposal, and we can only refrain from legal aid despite the positives that I have deliberately listed, and above all because of what I have said, which concerns the legal aid limit attached to the old-age pension. Please consider that this will be amended if appropriate, so that we can adopt a law that is the same as today, since it has been the same for ten years. In 2017 linking anything to this amount is rather embarrassing. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-09-19-115	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2017-09-19-116	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The objective of all three legislative proposals is the CXXX of 2016 on the Civil Procedure adopted by the Parliament on 22 November 2016. Law, that is, the new Pp. To ensure the smooth implementation of its entry into force on 1 January 2018 and to preserve the coherence and unity of the legal system. The most extensive proposal of the joint package of laws is the new Pp. T/17165 amending certain laws relating to its entry into force. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council on behalf of the European Economic and Social Committee. The bill amends 73 laws, including such extensive code-level laws as the tax law, bankruptcy law, company law, the law on the probate procedure, the law on the order for payment procedure. Some of the amendments contained in the bill are technical, while most of the amendments represent a change in content requiring careful consideration, as the new Pp had to be adapted to the procedural rules governing the laws. a split set of lawsuits, changed regulatory logic and new terminology. T/17166. The other bill No 1 is also closely linked to the new civil procedure. In the design of the regulation, it was a challenge that the number of non-court proceedings falling within the jurisdiction of the court, based on the 2016 statistics, had already exceeded 1 million, of which the number of civil cases was nearly 700 thousand. These procedures are also very different in nature, there are more than one hundred types of civil non-court proceedings. The heterogeneous nature of these non-court proceedings justifies the fact that the bill should only represent the most important rules, which constitute a derogation from the new Pp., which apply to all civil non-court proceedings. Among these, it should be pointed out that non-court proceedings do not separate themselves into litigation and substantive negotiation, which may seem obvious, even though there are specific litigation cases where evidence is taken by the court and the hearing is held. For example, it is in the field of intellectual property protection, industrial property protection. Also important differences in the new Pp. the rules of the new Pp. structure is based on the existence of the opposing parties, the contrast, and there is typically no conflicting party in the non-court proceedings. In addition, provision should also be made for the exclusion, as a matter of principle, of a period of time for litigation in civil non-court proceedings which can be interpreted as a matter of principle. The third is T/17167. Legislative bill No 1 aimed at the application of legal aid and cost registration law in civil and administrative court proceedings, that is what it is all about. The obligation of the State to operate an institutional system under which aid may be granted to the parties to the dispute in order to ensure that enforcement is not hindered by a lack of legal knowledge or by the fact that the party is unable to pay the costs incurred in the proceedings because of its income and property situation. In view of this, the Law on Legal Assistance provides for legal representation on a decisively necessary basis and exempts the person supported from the advance or payment of the cost of representation. On the other hand, the levy law and the individual procedural laws provide for a reduction in the cost resulting in an exemption from the advance or payment of the costs incurred by the proceedings. The bill has largely not changed in the case of procedures preferred with a material discount. The proposal provides for a reduction in costs, irrespective of income and property conditions, in which the legal relationship to be assessed is of social importance or where there is no alternative to the procedure. The proposal significantly renews the regulation of personal, therefore essentially income and asset-related, cost reductions. With the introduction of a personal right to record costs, the proposal provides for the effective exercise of the right of access to the court of persons in need. On this basis, the Christian Democratic People's Party supports all three legislative proposals, please support them. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-19-117	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-09-19-118	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have a package of legislative proposals that came before us because of the adoption of civil procedure, as there is a great deal of legislation that needs to be adapted to civil order. Speaking of which and related to this, I must note the problem that has already been dealt with by civil order, the new Pp. At the same time, we indicated that Minister Trócsányi had said in the ministerial exposé that in 1951 and in 1952, Minister Trócsányi said that the year 1952 was the year III. The Act was adopted by the Parliament in practically a few hours, and it was adopted. [[16.40]] There's no discussion about this. There was no argument. It almost seemed that Minister looked up to former legislators, in the early '50s, to Hungarian legislation in the Rákosi era, how well it worked. Well, the same thing happened in the current Hungarian Parliament, because this law was adopted in such a way that, in fact, the debate did not even develop. We had the opportunity to give each party his speech as the lead speaker, and then the debate was planned when all the lawyers were at an important meeting of the Legislative Committee, and the agendas quickly rolled off, so that by the time the lawyers returned from the meeting of the Legislative Committee, four or five agendas were quickly thrown off, and, uh, the debate on civil order was over. Thus, there was no debate about civil policy in the same way as in the early '50s. I do not think that it should be proud that such legislation is possible today. At the time, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary did not support this form of civil procedure, and we also abstained in this area. Why, we told you back in the day. Obviously, we have reservations and, in many cases, the introduction of new systems in civil order that may not have been sufficiently thought-out seems experimental. As a result, it is not certain that the procedure will be accelerated. But that will be decided by time, and the practice will state its judgment after a few years of application. In addition, I would like to refer one more thing back from the past, to the dangers of such laws, when we get hundreds of amendments to paragraphs in a hundred or so pages, as we see now, 73 laws and amendments to the law before us. We have obviously also seen in the past when Fidesz smuggled the sentence which said that it had repealed the three-quarter clause necessary for the adoption of the basic concept of the new constitution, which has always been included in the Hungarian Constitution, into the tiny final provision of an amendment to the Constitutional Court Act. It also showed that two thirds of the three-quarters were somehow intended to be eliminated, so that the new constitution would not be established on the basis of a national consensus, but that an exclusive pair would be created with the Basic Law. But it's completely different. If we look at the current legislation, I have already mentioned that it amends 73 laws, and these amendments are obviously of a legal nature, and in many cases we are talking about substantive amendments. When, in the civil order, which is a comprehensive law, almost all areas of civil life are affected by changes in procedural rules, the related legislation has to be amended in very, very many cases. It's no coincidence that 73 laws have been amended. I am almost certain that there will be a number of laws, a phase that will eventually be revealed that they have not been listed in this. I think they will arrive at about this magnitude, although I do not doubt that the professionals who dealt with this have probably tried to do good and thorough work, as they have done in many cases. Then life will bring in what other cases have not come here, but they will eventually end up here. I mentioned that there is also a technical and substantive part of this. Speaking of substantive changes, we are missing some of the things that should have been added. This is the amendment of the enforcement law, which we have repeatedly proposed. For example, the debtor should be limited to enforcement in the case of a motor vehicle used with him for the sake of a disabled relative living in a household. Also, the reduction in the percentage of monthly bans has been a number of better proposals, which, if we have already touched on them in substance, should have been mentioned. But such would have been the law relating to the debt settlement procedure, which was known as a private bankruptcy procedure, which, as the practice proves, has come to the point of providing any assistance in a few hundred cases during its several years of application. I'm not even sure that he was helping, just some people who could fit into this framework, who could even consider the use of the private institution. I think, if it had been touched on this, it would have been possible to make substantial amendments here to really help families in need. There are also amendments to this law that have been created this year, have been adopted this year, and have not yet entered into force. In this regard, it was precisely the government and the parliamentary majority of the Fidesz-KDNP that we wanted to apply such legislation, and we wanted to amend such a law, which always said not to touch it, that should stand the test in life. In the meantime, it seems that there have been amendments that the law has not yet entered into force, and they have already realised that it will not work in this form, which is why those amendments had to be made. The many amendments are also necessary because the new civil order deals with the procedure in a fundamentally different structure than before. Obviously, the separation of the trial phase and the substantive negotiation phase and the application of their procedural rules and related legal consequences in all cases require that they be adapted to all areas of life. These are the types of amendments which make it necessary to amend previous legislation in such a wide range. On the subject of the levy law, I would like to highlight one thing. What I see is that nothing really has happened, but almost exclusively, there is only legislative adjustment in the tax law. However, there is a law, and I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether I can see it correctly, but I do not agree with that at all. This is that the rules that have been repealed are within the scope of Article 56. Paragraph 5 of this Article. The tax law thus far stated that the non-court proceedings for the review of the law-breaking municipal decree and for the failure of the local government to comply with its legislative obligation based on law are tax-free, and that this has now been repealed and entered into the general rules on the basis of which the administrative lawsuit, if I understand correctly, will enjoy only the right to levy registration. But in no way are you going to get the same tax exemption you've received so far. So this means that if anyone finds the municipal decree to be in breach of the Constitution and this was a practice in Hungary, as it is obviously against the interests of citizens in violation of a constitutional municipal decree, then there should be no obligation at all to enforce a citizen's claim, whether he will have the money to pay the levy in this case. I think that the previous legislation was, in any case, better, which gave us a total tax exemption. The same applies to omissions where the local government is obliged to adopt or amend a municipal decree, but does not do so, and someone therefore goes to the Constitutional Court, in this case also have the exemption of the previous duty. I think that this will reduce civil rights in an important area where it should not be. I do not want the government's intention to attack as little as possible on the part of the population in municipalities where there is obviously still a majority of governments until 2019. [[16.50]] I think that it is a clear public interest that these municipal regulations should be compatible with the Constitution, that there should be no constitutional infringement provisions, that the municipalities should comply with their defaulting law violations, their defaulted misdemeanors, and that anyone can draw attention to them free of charge. We therefore find this very important for our part. I would like to have an answer to that from the Secretary of State, because if that is the case, we should definitely put in an amendment here. If we move to the other two pieces of legislation, which together relates to the legislation relating to the amendments relating to the entry into force of civil procedure, then the rules applicable to civil non-court proceedings are the first. The interesting thing about this is that there was no such code before, where the rules of non-court proceedings would have been collected by a piece of law, and this should have been applied. In general, the rules of civil procedure also had to be applied to non-court proceedings, and there were special rules for individual non-court proceedings. Here, as we have already heard from the rapporteur and several speakers, we are talking about more than a hundred kinds of non-court proceedings, and the large number of these procedures justify that this should be regulated in a separate law, because I was shocked when I saw that there were over a million cases, a million cases of non-court proceedings. So in this case, I think that this kind of regulation is absolutely necessary. If there is a new civil procedure, there is a new administrative procedure, then it is also worth bringing such a new legislation in the case of non-court proceedings. The third law is the law on legal aid, which applies to both litigation and non-court proceedings. In this, it is quite detailed about who can have a personal discount on costs, legal aid or a right to levy. Indeed, as my fellow Member, who spoke before me, has indicated, if legal aid is granted, the minimum age pension of HUF 28 500 at any time is quite minimal, even if the law tries to explain later that in any case the per capita income is to be calculated. So if we look here at the fact that there really is, say, a private person with an income of HUF 30,000, who has a child, then obviously we will have to take into account the income per capita here, and so it is possible, as my fellow Member Bárándy said, that even a public worker's salary will fit into the non-cost category where appropriate; if he has at least two more children, two dependent parents, then he will probably receive legal aid for three children. But you also need to see that there are numerous problems with pensioners and disabled persons, who actually have a pension of 28 500, 30 thousand, 32 thousand forints. There is a very serious problem for pensioners, we can usually no longer talk about dependent children, pay their rent on their apartments, they can't pay with this money, then they can no longer afford to enforce their legitimate needs in court. Thank God, there is an opportunity for the judge to change that in his discretion, and if he considers that litigation would otherwise be impossible for him, he may grant legal aid in the event of a higher income. The same applies to the right to register a levy. This 30% ratio is also low enough, but if you look at the other pan of the scale, you also need to see that many people are suing for fun, and they also need to be excluded from court proceedings at some level. It is very correct to state that this new legislation on legal aid, which was also laid down in the previous legislation, is that, if the applicant's claim is completely unfounded and it is foreseeable that it is not possible to enforce such legislation, it is not possible to grant the right to levy or to grant legal aid, even if the conditions would otherwise exist, since they must be withdrawn in case of bad faith. This will in any case lead to a reduction in the number of procedures and to speeding up procedures. Whether these laws are good or sufficient will be judged by judicial practice. It will be the judicial practice that will judge these laws as to whether they have indeed been thorough, whether these new legal institutions are really good, and if they are indeed adapted to the social needs of today, civil order, administrative litigation, non-court proceedings, legal aid and civil order alone. So this will be judged by age and society in any way. I wonder when we're going to touch this, when we're going to discuss it again, and when we're going to change it when the new amendments are coming in. I think we had a problem with the basic concept quite soon, but as I said, which we have already said in and after our keynote speakers on civil policy. For this reason, the Movement for Jobbik Hungary will abstain on the issue of these laws. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-19-119	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2017-09-19-120	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, With the new civil procedure that will enter into force in January and the amendment of the relevant legislative environment, we are witnessing the last months of the most permanent regulation of Hungarian legislation after 1945. Of course, the soon-to-be-64-year-old civil order is a model of amended legislation. As a result of the far-reaching three-digit Pp. amendment - I note that it has only been touched dozens of times since 2010 - there will be a replacement for January of a lawsuit that is not free from coherence disorders, which is in many respects obsolete and constantly resolved. The same is true for a large part of the related legislation. This endeavour and the thorough preparatory work of the judicial portfolio associated with it are, of course, seen and recognised by the LMP, since the outdated, inconsistent, constantly modified legislative environment is crushing legal certainty. However, the precise and inclusive preparation of legislation now does not exempt seven years of Fidesz-KDNP governments from one of their greatest crimes against the rule of law, which was the elimination of the belief in legal certainty. This is not the first time, when legislation adopted without knowledge of the consequences undermines public confidence, but the practice of the past seven years is unprecedented in recent Hungarian parliamentarianism. Continuous amendments to fundamental laws, without preparation, and then put into effect with retroactive effect, often marked by changing legislative positions and constant force to correct legislation. In the absence of a serious framework, legislation is unpredictable, and the majority of governments do not comply with the rules of procedure, as it can ignore them without consequences. There are consequences, and they are becoming more serious. Not only in government and governance, but also in legal entities' faith in the predictability of state and law. This would be reflected in the consistent legislation and good governance of many years, and it is a preparatory work that, fortunately, we have experienced in the course of the new civil order and related legislation. During the joint general debate on the three legislative proposals before us, I focus mainly on the third proposal, namely legal aid and the right to record costs in civil and administrative court proceedings. [[17.00]] The LMP's political guiding principle is that we must pay particular attention to social groups whose ability to assert their interests is weaker, because one of the most important indicators of democracy is how the public is in relation to social groups with a lower level of advocacy. The cost factors are undoubtedly the first of the obstacles to enforcement. In modern societies, the resolution of disputes and, in particular, the lawsuit is an expensive luxury item. While the State pays the wages of judges and administrative staff and provides the infrastructure for the negotiation of cases, a significant part of the settlement of disputes, such as procedural costs or a lawyer's fee, must be borne by the parties. The parties who have a sufficient financial background for enforcement obviously have an advantage over those who cannot risk such expenditure. Thus, cost reductions play an important role in ensuring equal opportunities and helping to reduce cost constraints, thus also enabling lower incomes in society to access justice and access justice. At the same time, legal aid within the framework of the welfare state arrangement has proved to be limited in order to provide effective assistance to the wealthless layers in achieving their rights. The reason for this is in part that there is a huge mass of latent legal conflicts between civil litigation cases, which poor law is virtually unable to provide any help in resolving. On the other hand, the condition of access to legal aid is fundamentally flawed, since the costs of enforcement before a court are far from adapted to the costs deemed necessary for primary maintenance and to the state social policy in this area. For example, the LMP considers it necessary to take greater account of one of the most serious social problems, the housing crisis, in the context of personal legal aid. To this end, we consider the inclusion of property, not generally, but of own property, as a complement to income conditions, to be appropriate for this purpose. The purpose of the discounts would be to give the parties the right to appeal to the court, but not only in a formal sense: it is considered to be in need, one of the costs reductions is the one who needs it for the effective use of justice. One of the fundamental requirements of the rule of law is the requirement to enforce fundamental rights. As regards fundamental rights relating to enforcement, in particular the right to refer to a court and the right to equal opportunities before a court, the State has an obligation to protect an institution, which obliges the State to establish the legal and institutional conditions necessary for an institution guaranteeing effective enforcement. The obligation of the State is therefore to create the real possibility of using the judicial or administrative procedure, which means that individual enforcement cannot be dependent on the individual's legal, practical or material circumstances. The State must therefore establish a system of aid which compensates, compensates for any deficiencies in legal knowledge or material opportunities and, in addition to the legal representation costs, also covers the tasks related to legal proceedings. This is by far not just a cost relief scheme based on basically formal criteria, because access to the law is not just an important cost criterion for the need for it. Priority should also be given to issues such as the representation of groups and common interests. The LMP welcomed the new Pp. in relation to the expansion of the rules on collective enforcement, but few of them. László Sólyom, for example, has already confirmed in 1980 the subordinate place of civil law and litigation in the field of environmental protection. Unfortunately, the situation has not changed much, since then the environment has been primarily an administrative task according to the public agreement, and the environmental activities of civil law and courts are marginal. The behaviour of the injured and the judgment itself preserve the situation. The protection of the environment in our civil law is limited to two institutional systems, liability and neighbouring law, as well as some groups of cases. The will to sue usually comes before the courts only simple cases which, if raised at all, do not excite the specific application problems of civil law. The effectiveness of civil law is also low because it is no longer expected of it. If, however, supported by cost reductions, the associated litigation would be open not only to labour and consumer disputes, but also to protection of property in environmental matters, it could essentially contribute to strengthening the means of civil law for the protection of the environment, would be easier to prove individual damage, and inequality would be reduced, which is already counterproductive in the relationship between the polluter and the individual victims. It would also justify increasing the possibility of collective enforcement by providing national wealth, such as the need to better remedy mass infringements in connection with land privatisation or the exercise of the State's right to carry out exclusive economic activities or to enforce patient rights. The bill leaves the progressively narrowing scope of cases with substantive legal aid or substantive rights to record costs essentially in accordance with the rules in force. According to the LMP, however, the right to a material discount should be extended, on the one hand, to the lawsuits of foreign exchange lenders who are in a hopeless situation or to the enforcement of consumer rights, or, on the other hand, to cases of public interest brought by law. The May Other, according to Politics, in these cases the conditions for equal access to justice are not given. These amounts are low compared to the overall volume of public finances, but the litigation itself and the litigation itself and their costs can destroy the full existence of those concerned. The burning problem is, of course, due to the lack of regulatory action over recent years, there is still no solution to the situation of a significant number of former foreign exchange-crediters, there are still a lot of litigation proceedings in court, thousands of residential properties are forced to be sold every year, and families live at risk because of the loss of their housing. Despite the decisions of the legal unit, it has not been established who the exchange rate risk is and to what extent and whether the foreign exchange authentic laws comply with EU legislation. The government considers the issue of foreign exchange lenders to be closed by allowing end-payments, forinting and setting up the asset manager. Compared to this, thousands of former foreign exchange credentials are currently waiting for eviction, desperate protests and other awareness-raising actions are common, because for many, the repayments and debt remained skyrocketed, not even giving them a chance to get out of this trap situation at any time. It is not true, then, that the government is doing everything it can to protect the interests of the victims, as is a lie that the MNB has saved the victims of foreign exchange. It is precisely time for the majority of governments to do something to save those affected, and for example, the head of debtors in a hopeless situation should, above all, disappear the sword of Damocles at least as much as a million of the procedural costs of enforcement. Of course, enforcement, including the general free access to the court, cannot be achieved, but when determining the exemptions and benefits, the legislator has a wide discretion, in which, according to the LMP, at last, rights such as the right to a healthy environment or social security should be taken into account, and economic or social policy objectives with which the bill before us unfortunately remained in debt. Thank you for your attention, I would say, fellow Members, but I say that you are a honourable Secretary of State and a fellow Member.
u2017-09-19-121	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. [[17.10]] I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak on this item. It is now possible to speak to its representatives. [[There's no candidate.]] No further comments were received. The joint general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, as rapporteur, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-19-122	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Without the need for completeness, there were only a few issues that I might be able to answer briefly. Congressman Bárándy gave his speech from a distance and raised quite a number of topics. I would also like to point out that the purpose of this package of laws is Pp. In connection with its entry into force, the creation of legislative alignment, coherence, and therefore the transformation of the entire Hungarian legal system, should obviously not be included. So I would not mention all the relevant legislation that you have listed, but, for example, the Quaestor case has been raised several times during the debate. It is not the subject of the debate, but we remember that the proposals put forward by the Government within the framework of the Constitutional Court, the proposals adopted by Parliament, contained maximum satisfaction. In addition to the Constitutional Court's decision, we cannot raise any further expectations. The second is that in relation to winding-up proceedings, it should be noted that there is a legislative framework, but within that, the liquidator or the court is entitled to take action and not the government. Whatever government comes, it will be appropriate to respect them in the distant future, if there is such a change. As regards the subject of exemption from tax, the issue of legal aid and the right to register a levy is quite broad, regardless of whether the basis for this was set at a lower amount in the case of exemption from tax in a way similar to that of previous legislation. As regards Mr Gyüre's comments on the municipalities, in addition to the tax exemption, legal aid will be granted to the parties in these cases, so this will give a greater discount. Perhaps this answer will be appropriate. What my fellow Member Ikotity has raised, the property does not exclude legal aid, so the residential property is not included in this circle, only to the extent that it is relevant. In the event of pollution, the associated lawsuit will create a new opportunity in the new Pp, and hopefully the rules will adapt to this. It was quite a long list, and I apologize if I do not mention everything, but I hope that we will be able to provide further answers during the Commission's and in-depth debate. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-09-19-123	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. We now have post-scheduled speeches. After the agenda, Mr László Kiss, MSZP Group asked for a speech on the protection of floods on the coast of Rome. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2017-09-19-124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, When I thought about asking for a word in this matter, I did not fully think about the scope of the matter, so I must say that I will be able to grasp only a small part of the subject now, and there will be more and more speeches later on when I touch on this subject. This case is also very important because basically the question of the protection of the flood on the coast of Rome is a question in which everyone basically agrees, and everyone says that it must be protected by the III. district population from a possible flood. I myself took part in the last flood defense, packed the sandbags, and that's why I know what kind of work it is, and I know that the price directly threatens the people of my constituency. Well, I don't wish anyone to experience these experiences, not packing the sandbags, but the fear that people feel when their wealth, their fate, is in danger. For this reason, the political life of the district has been able to create consensus for a very long time, because many of us believed in each other, and we believed that this issue could be resolved. When this issue came up ten or more years ago, it was not, of course, on such a trail and not such environmental damage, and it was not such an amount. It was a transparent investment. It was said that those who live there and benefit from this investment will participate in the financing of this project. The project was to be implemented through years of communication, consulting and informing the public. We were talking about a broad consultation in professional public life, and a proposal is coming to people based on a professional consensus, which, by the way, life has practically worked out. Unfortunately, it didn't turn out to be anything. Then let's start with the chronology in which the Roman Coast dam can be grasped, and I don't think I'm going to finish it today. In April 2011, the Metropolitan Assembly decided that an urgent barrier should be built in the area with the aim of strengthening the flood protection of the Csillaghegy basin. They don't decide the trail, but the idea is supported by all parties. At the then meeting of the Metropolitan Assembly Gábor Bihary, a representative of the district for a long time as a socialist municipal representative, and thus perhaps directly concerned as an Óbuda, says that the opposition does not want to prevent the issue of flood protection from moving forward, but expects correct information and expects the best possible proposal to come before the people. This was done in April 2011, so this story took place more than six years ago. For two years, nothing seems to happen. Planning is under way, sometimes we ask what these plans are like. They begin to drop information about the fact that there will be significantly more environmental pressures here than previously mentioned; then that there is a different trail than that mentioned in advance; then that the amounts will be different from that mentioned in advance, but no one will say anything concrete. Obviously, as long as no one sees concrete plans, one can live with good faith and have no reason to think otherwise. However, civil society organisations are already beginning to realise that there is a problem. In April 2013, the capital announces its idea of protection on the beach, where 435 trees have to be cut down, so 435 trees have to be cut down. The base of the mobile dam is designed for a smaller depth, because the original plan is that the deep gap wall would block the natural water path and swamp the area. Mr Tarlos spoke of the need for a local referendum. Once again, nothing will happen for a long time, then some plans will start to talk about 1000-1500 trees, and the main flood line will need to be changed, since it is logical that the mobile barrier will have to withstand a larger flood. However, the problem encountered by the designers is that if the dam has to be so high compared to the original, the base must be deeper, and what they want to avoid is that the foundation is too deep and the area becomes swampy. This problem will not be solved by January 2015, so the plans will be withdrawn and new plans will be made - from which I will continue the long story on Monday. Thank you for listening.
u2017-09-19-125	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group, also came forward after the agenda. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2017-09-19-126	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to a hope-provoking initiative, a successful initiative, in the context of its 30-year anniversary that international cooperation makes sense, and that success in the field of environmental protection can be achieved with such agreements. Luckily, little is heard these days about ozone-depleting halogenated hydrocarbons, but they have been part of our lives for many decades, such as oil or nuclear power. These halogenated hydrocarbon derivatives were also used for dry cleaning, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, refrigerators, sprays, fire extinguishing and combustion. We know about ozone that it interacts with light, absorbs ultraviolet radiation harmful to humans and most living beings, thus protecting life. If a living cell is exposed to too much UV-B radiation, it is damaged, and this not only causes diseases, eye or skin diseases for humans, but can cause very serious problems for the entire life, for example, the destruction of tiny single-cell plants, which can be the basis of marine life, such as a huge shortage in the food chain. [[17.20]] The ban on the use of ozone-depleting halogenated hydrocarbon derivatives dates back to 1985, but the relevant Montreal Protocol was opened for signature on 16 September 1987, which is 30 years ago and entered into force on 1 January. The related Regulation, the EU Regulation, also applies to the production, import, export, placing on the market, use, recovery, recycling, regeneration and destruction of substances that deplete the ozone layer, and to the transmission of information on these substances, thus also to the dissemination of information. This initiative has been exemplary, one of the rare times when we can say that we have recognised a global risk factor and that in a few decades we have achieved, with international cooperation, that the situation, if gradual, but improved, is slowly recovering from the Earth's protective mechanism. But even in this area, we still have a lot to do before the ozone hole closes. However, the Montreal Protocol is a successful response to a global environmental problem. Hungary has also fulfilled its primary obligation to do so, but we have stopped emissions, although there is still plenty to do in terms of measures to protect the population. This 30-year anniversary, however, obliges others. There are a number of global problems and international conventions aimed at resolving them, in which substantial results have not yet been achieved, at the most, to contain dangerous processes in some way. This could include halting biodiversity reduction or eliminating the causes of climate change that can be traced back to human activities. There is also a scenario for these, as well as an EU and international mechanism. International research into the causes, consequences and possible management of climate change has started over 25 years ago. There is no doubt that we must act without delay and in a coordinated manner if we are to avoid the hunger of billions of people, droughts, floods, hurricanes, the spread of new diseases, their increased frequency and the migration of climate refugees. The climate agreement adopted in Paris is the first universal and legally binding agreement, an important step towards a world with lower carbon emissions and climate change adaptation. A clear warning for policy makers and businesses to break away from fossil fuels, invest in clean energy and follow such models. Of course, it is incomprehensible for the future of our country, and it is unforgivable that the Government of Hungary does not represent this direction. Although the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister say nice speeches, they call for a fight to combat climate change, but the instruments in their power are not used for this. It is enough to think only of improving energy efficiency that is best used to reduce emissions, of building energy in the general public, of using renewable energy, and of what could be changed for a long time, but unfortunately this is less so. At the same time, I would like to point out once again that there is hope, there is opportunity, and we can change this together, following the appropriations of international treaties. I call on my fellow Members to do this. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. Laszlo Kiss applauds.]]
u2017-09-19-127	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 5:24 p.m.]]
