u2017-06-23-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, Mr. Speaker, Ladies and gentlemen, This is the opening of the Parliament's summer special session. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Mr Dezső Believer will be in charge of the meeting. I welcome our dear guests and all those who are monitoring our work today. Dear Parliament, In the person of Dr. György Rubovszky, the outstanding figure of the Hungarian Christian democracy has left us. He also played a key role as party founder in bringing the legacy of István Barankovics of the Christian Democratic People's Party to the political parties in Hungary and making him the main representative of Christian values in Hungarian political life. This intellectual heritage defined his nearly three decades of political career and his four decades of career as a lawyer. After the foundation of the Christian Democratic People's Party in 1989, he actively participated in the party's work. Since 1991 he has been president of the party's organization in Budapest, and since 1992 he has been executive secretary, and since 2002 he has been party prosecutor. He has been a member of the Parliament since 1994 except for a minor interruption. As of 2006, Deputy Head of the Group, Chairman of the immunity committee between 2010 and 2014. He has been a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Justice and Orders since 1994 for five cycles, later Vice-President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Justice and Orders, and President of the Judicial Committee since 2014. During his work, the country has always worked on the cause of the nation in its own interests, putting it ahead of its goals, demanding disciplined work from its representatives and colleagues until the last moment of its life. His human knowledge and wisdom, the figure of the noble traditions of Hungarian parliamentarism, left a permanent life's work for posterity. We'll keep your memory with respect. May he rest in peace. God rest his soul. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our deceased fellow Member with a silent standing. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased. On the table placed in the middle of the room, photos and flowers at the place of their representatives remind me of Dr. György Rubovszky. The relatives of Dr. György Rubovszky are seated in the box.]] Thank you very much. Have a seat. I express my sincere condolences to the members of the grieving family on behalf of Parliament and myself. Dear Parliament, He applied for a pre-meeting speech: Mr Péter Harrach, leader of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, entitled "Migration with a Christian Democratic Eye." Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2017-06-23-1	Mr President, Dear House, Before I speak before the agenda, allow me to say good-bye to Dr. György Rubovszky, our fellow Member and friend on behalf of our group. He came from a faithful civilian family, and from there he brought his values and standards, which defined his life in his private life as well as in his public activities. He was a careful family man, a fair and even honest lawyer, a dedicated Christian Democrat, a responsible representative. Farewell to you, dear Gyuri. Goodbye. Rest in peace. Dear fellow Members, I know that today the debate will be about hidden couple financing, the distasteful poster war for me, but today I would rather talk about the country's biggest problem, the issue of migration, how we Christian Democrats see it; because we often find ourselves being lectured from Christendom even by those who have little to do with it, and in many cases also active church haters. We also experience... [[Szabolcs Szabó: Tamás Fabiny!]] You don't think this is about you, do you, sir? [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Szabolcs Szabó: About Tamás Fabiny. The president's ringing the bell.]] In fact, there are various manifestations of ecclesiastical circles. We make our decision together with the Fides, but it is natural to have our own motives behind these decisions. I would like to say a few words about this now. We must emphasise two important principles: those who are persecuted must be helped, and we must defend ourselves. What it means for us to help the persecuted, they see from our recent manifestations and from the fact that our EU representative, György Hölvényi, is doing a lot for persecuted Christians, Christians in the Middle East. Why Christians? We're trying to help a community in the Middle East who's been living there for 2,000 years, and who's now very little. Of course, we do not have the energy to help everyone, to help those who belong in some way to our community. But this is not just about helping Christians in the Middle East, and it is not only the Christian Democratic People's Party, but also the state and the church. We know that the Hungarian state provided assistance in building hospitals, residential houses and schools, the church organized a collection, and so individuals were able to contribute to community support. Another aspect is self-defense. Obviously, we need to protect the nation, the families that are close to us. It is also a fact that mass immigration threatens not only our culture but also the safety of our families, so the decisions that we have taken together justify this self-defense. And we have one more question to ask you. Many assume or claim that the words of the church revelations, namely Pope Francis, are expressly contrary to the government's measures. Clearly, a church official is primarily declared a pastor, and that is the protection of the individual, the individual. But we're defending ourselves against a crowd, and that's self-defense. The two are different; it is the responsibility of a pastor and a politician, and these two can work side by side, even if we have to weigh in on the importance of these measures. [[Szabolcs Szabó laughs.]] [[11.10]] And one last thought: if we look at what caused this great flood, we cannot ignore what happened in North Africa and the Middle East because of various interventions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]]
u2017-06-23-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-23-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Let me first remember my colleague, György Rubovszky, for a minute. I think that an old-fashioned gentleman has been lost by the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian parliamentarianism by the fact that our fellow Member György Rubovszky is the youngest member of the heavenly faction, a man who could stand up for his values without compromise before 1990 and after 1990. He was the one who, in Communist times, dared to be a Christian lawyer, and no matter what the protests of the Christian Democratic People's Party, always dared to stand up for his position, and, as a disciplined lawyer, he always did everything he could to win this position, legality, regularity, and principles, whatever the circumstances. What gave him the strength beyond his individual qualities is probably the power of the family, because he is not the only member of this Rubovszky family who has given Hungary or has made a sacrifice for our time, or has done a job that is lasting and contributes to the growth of the nation, to the achievement of the nation. This family motivation could also have helped him to be a role model for us as a Christian Democrat politician, in many respects for the younger generation. As far as immigration is concerned, I believe, too, honourable Member, that Hungary has chosen the most Christian and sobering solution when it said that it protects Hungary, protects Hungarian families, the security of Hungarian families, our national culture, the workplace of Hungarian people, public security, and protects people from terrorism, but also helps those who are really persecuted. They usually talk about migration. We see a very big threat in migration, but refugees who are only a few hundred kilometers away from their own homeland, since they are only in a refugee camp in Bekaa Valley, Lebanon or Jordan, or they survive elsewhere until the Islamic State is driven out of their homeland, well, we do have to help them. I can tell you all, because many Eastern, Middle Eastern church leaders have already been here in Hungary - Pátriárka Sako, Archbishop Warda, Ignac Efrem or Patriarch Jounan or himself, I believe that in his life Father Boulad has become an example and a symbol, who has also asked for Hungarian citizenship, because a man from that region considers Hungary's immigration policy, Hungary's position on migration to be the right one, and he is happy to belong to Hungary as a Hungarian citizen in public law - well, all of them have said that the subsidies they receive from Hungary as Christian leaders, as Catholic leaders, will, of course, be used primarily to help Christians there. Of course, if a Muslim goes into their pharmacy and he asks for free medicine, they will give it to him. If a non - Christian in their school wants to learn a language, they will also teach that language to help him. This is why we are sure that Hungary will send these grants to the best place under the .Hungary Helps.We are not only generally providing support to developing countries with a value of HUF 5 billion to get rid of their public debt in the coming years, but we have also come up with specific plans, and they have not only remained at the level of the plans, as many Middle Eastern leaders stressed, and said to international newspapers that they have received many promises, but that they will receive the support from Hungary in particular. We're hoping that this can actually help. Each church leader considers educational aid to be the most important. Children who have not lived in their homeland for years can get lost very easily. The 120 million forints and 80 million forints of church support to the Calvin Catholic Church, through which the Caldok school is already being built, we trust that it will be completed this summer, and will also prevent students from getting lost in the autumn of next year, and will also help them learn. It is very important to hope for a return that Hungary will provide EUR 2 million in support of the reconstruction of Telsqof's city. It was a Christian settlement, as the Islamic State pushed forward, the settlement was completely empty, the houses were burned down, some houses were damaged, they could return, we gave them hope by rebuilding these houses. It is important that, in both the Syrian Catholic Patriarchate's Lebanese camps in Antioch, we also contribute EUR 1 million to humanitarian activity and EUR 1 million to the Syrian Orthodox Church's job creation and humanitarian activity in the region. Half a million euros to help ensure the need for medicines at the hospital in Erbil [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and the following are also preparing decisions on the financing of the Maltese hospital and similar grants in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-23-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Sándor Burány, from the MSZP Group, has applied for an address before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-06-23-5	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Before I say serious sentences about the government's work and the state of the country, please allow me, on behalf of the MSZP faction and the MSZP, to express my pain over the death of our fellow Member, György Rubovszky, and to offer my condolences to the grieving family about the tragic death. Our fellow Member deserves at least that much. Dear House, We have to do our job after the tragedy. We have to, because we have to make sure that the poor man is pulled by the branch. Only in Borsod, for example, in Megyaszón - this is a 3,000 enthusiastic settlement - because of the storm, there is no house, no roof, and the houses are life - threatening. [[11.20]] Halmaj has also suffered serious damage, but insurance companies are slow, cumbersome, and can't be touched on the settlement and repair of the damage until the evaluation. People were left without help, the government was silent, left the people in trouble on the side of the road. But the poor man is also plagued by the government. In Hungary, there were very many poor people in 2010, there were 3 million poor people in the country, and unfortunately this number has not decreased in recent years, but has increased: in 2016, we had nearly 4 million countrymen living in extreme poverty in the country, and it is typical that KSH has not been able to publish data on deep poverty for some time. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Yes, you can.]] We need to establish that workers' wages are taxed to death. In terms of average wages, we are third in the ranking of wage taxes and levies in the European Union; we should not be standing on this platform. But I have worse news: we are directly champions of Europe in terms of minimum wage taxes and contributions; it would be good to be last here. Unfortunately, I have even worse news: in terms of the VAT rate, which is 27 percent, even though we are world recordrs in the ranks of developed countries, Hungarian products are simply hit by unprecedented VAT burdens. Small businesses taxed to death are drowning, while multinational companies are receiving tax incentives. The difference between the poor and the rich is increasing, the fidesz elite slowly travels everywhere by helicopter, comes to a wedding with a helicopter, flees from journalists by helicopter after coming home from Macau on expensive private jets, where they must have been hiking and playing cards, while low-income workers live from month to month. In addition, the government is apparently disturbed by independent, thinking people, organisations and institutions. In this way, the age limit for compulsory education was reduced from 18 to 16 years, thus excluding some 15,000 children from education each year. At the same time, higher education opportunities are reduced: the autonomy of higher education has essentially been abolished by the nationalization of the appointment of the rectors, the chancellors, who are in fact political commissaries, by the appointment of a university; they have created lex CEU, restricting the freedom of learning, and they are able to close a university to that end; they have created lex civil, because independent civil society organisations are a splinter in the eyes of the government. Meanwhile, an unprecedented footage has been created, from public to county newspapers through the downtime of local radios, and there are two things going on in this footage with steam: brainwashing and money laundering. Weakened society also receives weakened health care: there is a steady shortage of doctors, and it is unprecedented that in recent days a whole department has been closed for so-called leave, and the representative of the government has been able to say so much that patients will probably also be on leave. It is quite simply ridiculous, my fellow Members, but it has not been added that the disease should resign. No wonder people in Hungary are fed up, and there is an increase in hopelessness. Each survey shows that every year there is an increase in the proportion and number of people who wish to emigrate, starting tragic processes. People are sick of it, but we don't have to emigrate, we have to get this government out of here. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] because it's responsible for this situation. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-06-23-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[Zoltán Grumpy: You should go to the subway.]]
u2017-06-23-7	[[Sándor Burány is talking to his fellow factions.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A few short reactions at the beginning. You claimed that KSH did not publish data on poverty. This does not stand the test of reality if you have a second to pay attention: the number of people exposed to the poverty factor has decreased from 3.4 million to 2.5 million. [[Sándor Burány: That's a lie!]] That's a $800,000 drop, and you know it. [[Zoltán Grimlock: I said go to the subway!]] As far as the floods are concerned, when the floods in Borsodi were, the socialist government did not give any help to those in distress. By the way, we think that the shortest way out of poverty is if everyone has a job, which is why it is a serious weapon that 700 people, i.e. seven hundred thousand more, are working in this country than in 2010. As far as VAT is concerned, you know very well that the VAT on the most important foods fell from January, and you know very well that this was the government that led out the foreign currency loans that put hundreds of thousands into debt traps. He may have mentioned the issue of health care. When you put down the lute in 2010 [[Zoltán Grumpy: Go out to the subway, it's lynching, man!]] , compared to that, there is now 430 billion forints more available for health care. You're suggesting that people are fed up. What people are fed up with, they'll tell you in the election. One thing is certain: the MSZP does a lot of things that many people can have enough of. There's a case he didn't say, but he's saying a lot about the current state of the MSZP, because another skeleton fell out of the red carnation cabinet: they managed to show the bravura that they were long gone, but they still left the corruption generator at the same speed. What am I thinking? We have been informed from the press that one of the key members of the MSZP has been placed under pre-trial arrest these days for being suspected of fraud in a criminal organisation. Your company is suspected of VATing HUF 1.7 billion. [[Crying from the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. István Józsa: fabricated! The president's ringing the bell.]] He did not pay a sum of HUF 1.6 billion, which is more than HUF 3 billion. And the Hungarian state is not only the injured, because the members of the student associations belonging to the interests of the arrested have not obtained their legitimate payment. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Of course, if the D.A. shuts it down!]] That's what makes it even more outrageous than usual. I'm also glad that you spoke because you went on a TV show a few days ago and made a shocking statement that you didn't really study Csaba Czeglédy's biography. I don't know how serious you are about this, but let me tell you who it is. This man is the leader of the left in Szombathely [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's your problem right now!]] He was a deputy mayor for a while. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Stadiondoggy!]] He has coordinated several MSZP campaigns, including the Veszprémite and its treadmills, and you know it, Congressman Gógös, because you worked with him. [[Zoltán Pride: I will not deny it!]] In addition, he is also a lawyer of Ferenc Gyurcsány, Attila Mesterházy and László Botka, while cutting money from the MSZP faction in the millions. [[Zoltán Grumpy: First you go to jail, old man!]] Typically, when Mr Harangozó arrived at the Ministry with a request for data, he was represented by Csaba Czeglédy, so he referred to transparency and public money with a person who had already been convicted of tax evasion, the court also stated that he was a tax criminal. László Botka was certainly aware of this when he held a public forum with him on 7 April. Typically, the PM's candidate for the MSZP even held the umbrella for this tax criminal to avoid getting wet. Take a look at the photos of this. And what does your party president say? He says, quote, that there are many people in this situation, that the tax is paid or paid in such a way, it is a debate. The MSZP may often not pay a tax of HUF 3 billion, but this does not happen in the country beyond MSZP. [[Zoltán Haughty: Alas, alas, alas!]] So this is not a debate, this is a crime, honourable Member. [[Dr. István Józsa: Violation! The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Socialist Members, All these things are very serious, so we call on you to clarify, on the one hand, how much more trouble you know about Csaba Czeglédy. [[Dr. István Józsa: Slandering! Zoltán Grimlock: It's slander, and it's not over.]] You'd better tell us now which socialist politicians have contractual relations with this man. [[Dr. István Józsa: Slandering! Putini Russians!]] We know the faction has a contract. Many also expect an answer as to whether the student labour unions involved in the scandal may have been used in the MSZP campaigns [[Why don't you answer the question?]] That's the answer we're waiting for. If you want to be clear, you'll have to answer those questions, if you don't, then it's basically an accomplice. [[Dr. László Kács: Report?]] and it also means [[Zoltán Grimlock: Have you filed a complaint?]] that not only old skeletons fall out of the wardrobe marked " MSZP" [[Dr. István Józsa: Slandering!]] but they are constantly forming new ones, so at least everyone can see very well what left-wing renewal means in practice. Well, what we're seeing here can be enough for a lot of people. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. István Józsa: Flórian Farkas? Take that out.]]
u2017-06-23-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Lajos Kósa, Head of the Group, has applied for a speech before the agenda. It's an address. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. [[Zoltán Grimlock: From what? From you?]]
u2017-06-23-9	Mr. President. Dear House, Allow me to say good-bye to our fellow Member, György Rubovszky, on behalf of the Fidesz fraction. György Rubovszky left the House as one of the last great Mohicans, there are very few Members like him among us. We'll keep his memory, we'll miss him. Mr. President. Dear House, I think our long-term destiny interests you the most. events now taking place in Brussels, the European Council holding a two-day meeting on which there is a great deal of talk, including migration and quota. [[11.30]] We can see that the newly elected politicians of the European Union with very significant potential have a rather ambivalent attitude to migration and quota. The President of the European Parliament, before the European Council, said that he was undoubtedly right about them - Hungary, of course, did not speak of it, because this would have been an exaggeration for a left-wing politician - who said that migrants should be kept outside the borders of the European Union, that the necessary legal procedures should be conducted against them and that economic migrants should not be allowed in and that borders should be protected. At the same time, we see that the mandatory quota is still a very hot topic at the European Council, and that the left-wing part of the European Parliament has not set aside the obligation to apply quota, most recently the leader of the Green Party Group of Parliament has said and suggested that Syrian villages in Eastern Europe should be relocated, as if it were possible to determine whether or not a village is eligible for refugee status, because people can be found, certainly not from settlements. This shows how some European politicians on the left have onionous ideas about what the real nature of this whole migrant crisis is, who is coming to Europe and how Europe can be protected in this regard. The Fidesz fraction's strongest position remains that the European borders must be protected by all means, as long as this government is responsible for Hungary's governance, and people trust in this, so that no kind of fence dismantling is possible, and we strongly resist any attempt to come from the socialists or their Prime Minister's candidate, László Botka, which raises the possibility of breaking the fence in any context at all. This migratory pressure is not slowing down, but increasing. It is clear that what the Hungarian government has been most determined to represent since 2015 in the European Union is being achieved: letting migrants into Europe is a threat to our culture, our political values, our civilisation, but also our physical security. Today we can't even get our heads around news that a migrant in a small French village has stabbed a police officer or a priest, because it has become part of the daily news to such an extent that the Hungarian press doesn't really respond to it, but in everyday life, in the safety of everyday life, we can't forget it. It is therefore in Hungary's interest to hold migration, and therefore the Fidesz faction has launched the Prime Minister to the European Council with the political support that coincides with the position of 1.7 million people, Hungarians, who are taking part in the national consultation now, that there is no compromise in the quota, that we do not want anyone other than us to decide who and under what conditions we should live with, come from the European socialists, the Hungarian socialists, the European greens, even though the European Parliament should stand secretly or publicly for terrorism, or suddenly appear as a defence attorney for a clearly terrorist person [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Former Minister of Justice for Socialists. We will not allow this, we will protect Hungary. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-23-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to the statement made before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-23-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The issue of security has become the number one public issue in Europe, which is indeed not independent of the migration crisis, and the need for Europeans to give their leaders strong, reassuring answers and solutions to their concerns, their fears, and there is not much to wonder about, because almost no more than seven without serious acts of terrorism. For these reasons, including for these reasons, this issue has been included in the recently completed national consultation, which has brought a new record of participation, with 1.7 million participants - which, by the way, is far more than the number of voters of the MSZP or Jobbik. And the results are clear: more than 90 percent of participants reject illegal immigration and prohibit immigration activities, keep migrants seeking asylum under surveillance until the decision is taken. We think that if they did a similar consultation or even a survey in another EU country, that if I asked so many citizens for their opinions, they would receive similar answers. This is why it is shocking that Brussels still does not understand the close link between the deteriorating security situation and the untreated migration crisis. It continues to protect borders only in words, but in practice it continues to force resettlement programmes and there is increasing pressure on those countries, including Eastern European countries, which are unwilling to participate. They try to break them in various ways: where they threaten to cut financial resources, sometimes with condemning decisions, and sometimes simply insulting classifications; I think that goes against all democratic principles. After all these terrorist attacks, we would expect common sense to prevail, but instead, still, indeed, scandalous proposals are still being made. For example, the leader of the Brussels greens would bring larger immigrant groups to our region, Eastern Europe, because, he says, immigrants who would not like to arrive alone could come here with more pleasure; in an interview he clearly said that the creation of migrant villages was also an opportunity. We do not want migrant villages, and as long as this government is in office, as long as this government is in place, there will be no such thing. Meanwhile, instead of respecting the opinion of Hungarians, which has already been said on many occasions, the Hungarian Left supports resettlement, the pro-implantation plans in Brussels, for example, the LMP voted in favour of a resolution in Brussels that supports resettlement, which contains extremely serious findings, is always heard from here and is denied here as well. The MSZP voted in favour of this resolution, but its Prime Minister's candidate went further: he told an international news agency that they would indeed break down the southern border barrier after they came to government, even though they are now trying to deny it all, so their Prime Minister's candidate promised. Meanwhile, the party's president, Gyula Molnár, hinted that there are some elements in EU cooperation that are not so favourable to Hungary, but that these must be accepted. Dear House, All these statements, all these resolutions from the left, the minutes of the votes clearly show that the coalition of the fence-breaking, pro-installing coalition has come together in Hungary, all of which are members of the left-wing parties in practice, and Jobbik acts as a silent partner. Honourable left-wing representatives - the MSZP, unfortunately, I see that it does not participate in the work of the House - when they are pushing for fence dismantling, planting, they are now having an argument not only with the government, but with millions of Hungarians, because the Hungarians have already said no to illegal immigration, resettlements three times, and they have stood up for strengthened protection of borders, stood up for two consultations and stood up for the autumn referendum, then more than 3 million people. Dear House, The government will not give in to pressure, no matter how strong it is, no matter how much pressure it is, we will not let them decide about us without us, no matter how harsh the campaign ahead of us, no matter what role the opposition parties play in it, we will not let any agreement of this principle. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-23-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Bernadett Szél applied for a speech before the agenda with the title of an additional day from the Group of the LMP. Here you go, ma'am. You have the floor.
u2017-06-23-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to express my deepest condolences to the family of our fellow Member who died. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Today is a special day: there has never been such a fuss in Hungary, in such a pathetic building such a pathetic oligarchic war as what you are doing here. There is still a committee meeting in which, in the last minutes before the votes, collective text editing is used to weld their multiple anti-law bill, although there is one point: the ban on government propaganda. I would point out that the LMP is not involved in the oligarchal war, but we are still waiting for the real problems of the country and the Hungarian people to be addressed in the National Assembly, not the Fidesz, not the Fidesz Banderium. Thank you for your attention. [[11.40]]
u2017-06-23-14	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-23-15	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to express my opinion that I believe that there is no debate in Parliament that is unnecessary, neither today nor any other day's debates, there are a lot of issues on the agenda today that have a weight that is important for the country's life. Since what you have said is practically a clear resolution, and if we look at your statements made in the last few days, let us say that many people have the feeling that LMP has also joined a billionaire federal circle, including this resolution. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett is leaving the meeting room.]] A few years ago, your activists chained themselves to the Public Machine site, and now one of the presidents of the LMP says that Lajos Simicska should be valued. That's what you said. [[From the seat of Dr. Ákos Hadházy, he stands before Csaba Dömötör. Dr. Ákos Hadházy: He's not telling the truth! You're full of shit.]] That's what you said. [[Moraj, interrogations from the benches of the ruling parties. A sturdy applause from the ranks of the representatives behind Jobbik.]] I'm asking you to look back on that TV interview you gave me, and that's exactly what you said. One thing is certain, since András Schiffer's departure, much has changed in the LMP. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy is leaving the meeting room.]] They only remind me of the party that once promised that politics could be different. You have now withdrawn - several topics could be mentioned in relation to the LMP. And I am also sorry that they have left because in recent days a serious issue has been identified, namely that the European greens have proposed to deploy immigrants in larger groups to Central Europe and Eastern Europe, because they would feel better in groups than if they arrived alone. This Green Leader even considers it a proposal to create migrant villages in Eastern Europe to be considered. And even though this green guide explains in hindsight that it's just an opportunity, an opportunity of many, it doesn't change the point. Not even because this Member, Ska Keller, approves elsewhere of the launch of a procedure against Eastern European countries that reject resettlement programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I don't know if you're still following Parliament's session, but if you were here, I would be happy to tell you that the LMP needs to clarify, I think, this question, because this statement, this proposal of the Greens, is not without precedent. The LMP often tries to deny this in Parliament, but on 5 April, at some point in the afternoon, their MEP voted in favour of a resolution on the basis of which to abolish the legal barrier, speed up resettlement and extend the concept of refugees to a wider circle. This is therefore the official position of the LMP when it comes to voting. You don't have the courage to tell the citizens back home. And now they're referring to democracy. And they won't even answer that question if it's all true. So, if, at the end of the parliamentary season, I had to sum up what the LMP really wants, we can name few things, but it shows that a flirt with a billionaire who is flirting with other parties here in Parliament. [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] In this respect, too, today's vote will be interesting. It is also interesting that, in a typical way, she has left now. In any case, many today may be disappointed by those who thought that politics could be different. Then there is a pro-implantation policy, which is represented in the Brussels institutions, but there is no public or their own voters involved here. [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Then we see one more thing, and I would also like to raise this, because this also affects many people and is part of the substantive debate, and that is the intention of the tax increase. Last week, there was a debate here in Parliament, and also from the LMP shouts there, and from its programming points, it is clear that LMP wants to re-establish the key to personal income tax. [[Dr. Csaba Gyure: And you, the Rakosi system!]] They're thinking about a drastic tax increase. So they'd join the left-wing parties that would break the middle class of work again, and they'd say they're rich even to earn a little more than average. So, if the LMP were here, then many people could tell them that the policy they are pursuing is nothing else, because it is the same one that the left has presented here in Hungary for several years, and the voters have clearly expressed their views on this. It's up to the LMP to decide which way you're going now. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-23-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Ákos Hadházy has left, so he has not given me the opportunity to warn him about the disruptive activity of the meeting. Dear Parliament, At first, Fidesz just damaged the posters of the Jobbik, and now he'd ban it. Are you that afraid of a change of government? Mr János Volner applied for a speech on the agenda from the Jobbik Group. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor.
u2017-06-23-17	Ladies and gentlemen, The poster law before us has clearly demonstrated that the preservation of Fidesz' own power is far more important than the interests of the country. It has also been proven that Viktor Orbán is truly afraid of one person, and this is the change of government brought by Gábor Vona and Gábor Vona. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] At present, Jobbik in Hungary will be the challenger of Fidesz, the 2018 elections will have nothing at stake but that Fidesz will remain, or that it will be replaced, and there will be a better government than before. You're working on Jobbik. They're stealing. The reason why his billboard could be so successful was because the theft of Fidesz politicians in Hungary today is the everyday experience of 10 million people, everyone can see it, everyone can hear it, everyone can see what is going on in the country. Fidesz was so disturbed by this poster campaign that it encouraged its own membership of law crimes, as it turned out, that Lajos Kósa, assistant to the Fidesz faction leader, personally organized posters and, in this way, the multimillion-forints of damage that both the Fidesz and the Fidesz-managed prosecutors, the police, did nothing to do. It was also apparent that Fidesz then tried to ban and make it difficult to post poster with a bill that Viktor Orbán quickly failed because he did not have his two-thirds parliamentary support. Shortly thereafter, Fidesz's handler, János Áder, rejected the poster law to give his party a new opportunity. This new opportunity is currently being used by Fidesz. Yet there is already a significant media overweight; the cornerstones and morals of Fidesz communication are marked by the names of people such as Árpád Habony, Antal Rogán and Andy Vajna. Fidesz is so afraid of Jobbik that now we have to face the fact that he's crushing his own Fundamental Law. [[Miklós Soltész: Deplorable!]] I quote to you, the Fundamental Law VIII. The detailed rules for the operation and management of parties are laid down in a fundamental law. It is clearly provided by the Fundamental Law, yet Fidesz tries to circumvent this regulation by a half a majority of acceptable laws, and thus makes a clear breach of the law. It is also important - the Fundamental Law also states - that government bodies cannot control the management of parties, this can only be done by an independent institution. In this case, too, there was a violation of the law. Therefore, I should like to inform you in advance that if this law is passed today by the Parliament, because of the obvious and serious infringement, it will turn to the Constitutional Court of Jobbik and, of course, we will take legal revenge for this expansion. It must therefore be stated that Viktor Orbán, a young Democrat of former flames, has now become a burned-out communist thief [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] who not only steals the country's money, but also encourages its own party members to destroy it, impels the entire party membership of Fidesz to commit crimes. [[Ready, Zoltán: That's it.]] It must be noted to Fidesz that the future cannot be stopped. Elections will take place in 2018, and the stakes of the elections will be whether or not the Orbán government will remain. I believe that the Orbán government will be replaced by Jobbik, and a Jobbik government will be formed in Hungary. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What if he doesn't? You're resigning?]] When Jobbik goes to government, he not only relieves the Fidesz, but also settles the Fidesz. Contrary to Hungarian hearts, common sense and you, we will govern with clean hands. We're gonna put an end to what you're doing right now, to what you're ashamed of. With regard to the provisions of the Poster Act, of course, we expect all opposition representatives to vote in favour and sign at that time. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Are you begging Gyurcsány? Nice.]] when we turn to the Constitutional Court, if this outrageous bill is still passed by the government. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] [[11.50]]
u2017-06-23-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to Mr Fraction Manager's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-23-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The fear of what makes it clear that when your party president was asked at a press conference about the discrediting campaign, he was scared and gave the floor to one of the better Members of Parliament, and in other cases he pointed to the party director, who is not a Member of Parliament, so he cannot be asked questions here in the House. Jobbik, this is not the first time, is very often manifested on moral issues, but the fact is that it is your party that is involved in the worst form of corruption, because we cannot imagine corruption more harshly than it is. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Like in Fidesz! Intercoms in the ranks of Jobbik: Like what you do! Landing policy!]] when a party is bought up hairy and skinny. Even though the world has turned a lot compared to 2014, when the former national party talked about deliberately avoiding posters linked to the Simicska empire, it does not take much time to do so, and we see that Jobbik is mostly basking on the posters of Lajos Simicska. That would not be a problem in itself, it is your right not to suspect a disguised party funding. But there is such suspicion. It's because Jobbik owns a poster for only a few hundred forints. [[István Szávay: You're lying again! Don't lie to me.]] They put thousands of posters in one poster a day. Other parties, honourable Members, other institutions and market participants can only obtain advertising platforms for multiples of this. Technically, they almost got posters for free. If that is the case, and so it is, then this is nothing more than covert party financing, which seriously distorts democratic competition. The LMP is aware of this, and the Hungarian Socialist Party is aware of this, because they also said that they only bought posters for multiples of this amount. Now we can say that the picture is coming together, so we understand very well why you've been talking about embarrassing campaigns over the last few months. At first, they didn't want to tell me how many posters they were out there, and then they didn't tell me what it was covered with. After that, they figured out it was all on credit. They were talking about the loan. Once they said they spent money on something else, and then they said that they even had to replace the poster campaign with the loan from their own sources. As many days as possible, so many better versions. There were days when their new spokesperson could say, "The grand oath here and now I'll put it down that we didn't get any discount, we agreed on a market price with these companies. A few days later, however, they told me that they paid a few hundred forints a day for a poster, and they said they didn't get a discount. It's a joke! They think the voters, the whole country, are birds. Under these circumstances, the blind can see that Jobbik would give way to corruption, and otherwise, if it were to go to government, he would do the same. Today's vote will therefore also answer how many parties will be partners in this. For their part, the governing parties proposed this bill, the legislative amendment on the agenda, in order to prevent such corruption and party financing corruption. In addition to the poster scandal, we see similar self-disclosures from Jobbik in other areas, which is why they sided with the Soros University and therefore did not support the bill to increase transparency, while in 2014 they themselves demanded this in their electoral programme. Dear House, I don't think you can trust a party that accepts every offer, that's gonna get you into every dirty deal if it's gonna give you some power and some money. It is not possible to entrust serious matters to those who, on the basis of the daily instructions of their main sponsor, oppose the country's fundamental interests, as we have seen in the quota vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that your party president can't publish so many cat pictures that can make you forget that you sold your party's soul and turned a national party into a derailed party. For my part, I wish you a wise and responsible decision for today's vote. Keep in mind that in public life, politics, there is no greater value than freedom. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-23-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. Mr István Ikotity of the Group of the LMP István Ikotity of the Group of the Fidesz Group Zsolt Nyitrai of the Group of Jobbik Dóra Dúró of the Jobbik Group, also from the Group of Jobbik, Mr Rig Lajos, Mr Gergely Kulcsár and Mr István Szávay of the Group of Jobbik. Dear Parliament, I declare that Mr Lajos Kósa Group Leader, by submitting the necessary number of supporting signatures, is the XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament. Law 35. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament initiated the convening of an extraordinary session in order to discuss a proposal sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic for the amendment of certain laws necessary for the purpose of transparent campaigning. Dear Parliament, The agenda for today's meeting is now being set. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Please take your seats and check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. It's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. The debate on the legislative report and the proposal for amendment to the Act on the amendment of certain laws necessary for transparent campaign activities, adopted by the Parliament on 14 June 2017, is now taking place. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/15329/18, letter from the President of the Republic T/15329/19. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. The Legislative Committee's amendment proposed by T/15329/21. T/15329/22. This is available to all of them on the website. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the opinion expressed by the minority will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. A time frame of 7 minutes shall be provided for the presentation of the minority opinion. I now give the floor to Mr Répássy, rapporteur of the committee, within a maximum of eight minutes. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[Several representatives of the MSZP will return to the Chamber.]] [[In the notary seat Dr. István Tiba will be replaced by József Attila Móring.]]
u2017-06-23-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, As you know, the President of the Republic has returned the bill in question, and I would like to read the last sentence of this motion for President of the Republic, the transcription, from which the Legislative Committee started today. His last sentence reads in the letter of the President of the Republic: . I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to renegotiate the law in its entirety. It follows that, at today's meeting of the Legislative Committee, all or all relevant provisions of the Law previously negotiated have been discussed, and accordingly, the amendments tabled by the Legislative Committee have a broad impact on the subject which was included in the provisions of the original Act sent back by the President of the Republic. [[12.00]] At the committee meeting, there was a debate on what the amendments were to be discussed at all. Under reference number 1 the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment proposal of the members of the Committee of the Hungarian Socialist Party, while under reference number 2 it discussed the proposal of the pro-government members of the Committee. [[Anita Heringes: There was no modification! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It wasn't like that! You faked it... the president's ringing.]] Mr President, I do not understand what the MSZP does so far. [[Anita Herring: By lying to me!]] So, at the committee's meeting, I repeat once again, the Committee discussed two amendments: the proposal of the Committee members of the MSZP under number 1 [[Anita Herring: That's not true! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Stop lying!]] No. 2 on the proposal of the pro-government representatives. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] During the debate or at the beginning of the debate, there was a point of order debate as to whether the amendments made by the members of the MSZP were valid. [[Anita Herring: There is no such thing! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Fidesz's amendment...]] comply with the relevant Parliamentary House Rules and the Rules of Procedure of the Committee. After a debate, the committee closed the matter by a vote on a point of order. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The Fidesz members!]] The members of the committee considered the amendments made by the members of the Hungarian Socialist Party a valid motion. [[Anita Heringes: There was no modification!]] From this point forward, it is not a question of who submitted the amendment, but of who submitted the amendment. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: It's quite a question of who submitted it!]] the committee has presented to you, to this House, the amendments under No 1 and the pro-government amendments under No 2. On the merits of the debate, I would like to say that while in Amendment 1, the representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party propose to amend the party law, in Amendment 2, the 2016 LXXIV on the protection of the settlement image. the amendment of the law. So there are two approaches: the Hungarian Socialist Party would amend the rules on the functioning of the parties. The authors also supported the proposals of the MSZP. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Understand that there is no such thing! Anita Herring: You faked it!]] Dear House, So the amendments tabled by the MSZP... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy keeps interrupting.]] If you want, I won't say the name of the MSZ anymore, because I can see that it annoys you. Therefore, Amendment 1 [[Anita Herring: What is submitted by Fidesz...]] supported by the Committee. In Amendment 2, even at the committee's meeting, some wording was highlighted. The main point of the proposed amendment No 2 is that the Parliament would lay down specific rules on bodies responsible for the management of public funds, in such a way that the promotion of the budgetary body and legal person named and supported by the Central Budget Act, and of the legal person receiving support from such a body and legal person, would be subject to uniform rules in the future under the proposal submitted. Therefore, all organisations that manage directly or indirectly through budgetary support and which form the majority of their annual revenues are transparent, can be checked by everyone - so much that contracts should be published in the future - would be subject to advertising rules. In addition, it is important to require that this advertising activity be done at a list price, or that, if the advertiser is bound to public procurement or subject to public procurement law, everyone can advertise at an agreed price after the public procurement has been carried out. This would therefore apply in the future to all organisations that receive budget support directly or indirectly. I believe that more transparency in the advertising market cannot be imagined in the future. I stress that this is a matter of government money or budgetary money. Obviously, private individuals, private organisations, are not included in this circle. In the course of the debate, it was considered whether this would affect the provision of the Fundamental Law under which a fundamental law applies to the management and functioning of parties. In our view, and in the Committee's view - I am now presenting the majority position of the committee - as parties are, of course, subject to not only two-thirds of the laws, but also to the management of parties and their other activities, as parties are also subject to all laws, so there is no question whether there is a law that is not fundamental, but also to the parties. To mention just a few examples, these are obviously tax laws or, for example, accounting laws for farming. So the approach is wrong that only the party law can contain standards that apply to the functioning of parties. Obviously, at the committee meeting, there were numerous examples of the rules that parties are obliged to submit to. Dear House, The Committee therefore considers that the advertising activities of the parties, as well as the advertising activities of all organisations supported by the budget, can be identified without concern by uniform, transparent rules that reduce the risk of corruption. I therefore call on the Committee, on behalf of the Committee, to support the amendments. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-06-23-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion will now be presented within a 7-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, rapporteur for the minority opinion. Here you go.
u2017-06-23-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Indeed, there was a heated debate at the Legislative Committee meeting. I could say we're here, and we have to discuss this in an emergency session, and it proves that there's only a follow-up, a follow-up exam if it's in Fidesz's interest. If a national matter or amendment of the Fundamental Law comes to the fore, then you say that, yes, it can't come back to Parliament; rich migrants can come, and the poor can't. So this is a question in which we can see that if necessary, you will also convene an extraordinary meeting if it is for your own good. Because no matter how they deny it or try to deny it, it's the Fidesz's fear of losing the election, and they'll do whatever it takes to change the laws. Whether it's against the law or against the appearance of legality, they rewrite these rules, either at the cost of public invalidity, or at the cost of accepting even two-thirds of the passages as half laws. Because why isn't what Robert Répássy said true? I am very sorry that you have been entrusted with this ungrateful role to try to defend a double unconstitutional proposal here. What you brought to the committee... - now another thing is that, with the oral amendment, when the proposal was already tabled before the committee, it was practically extended, they rewritten this proposal, because first they wanted only to submit it to the posters, and then there, at the committee meeting, it will be extended orally to other advertisements, even vehicle advertising, according to your plan. And why is this proposal against the law and why is it double against the law? On the one hand, the nullity of public law is entirely raised, since if you read the house rule, which I also said at the committee meeting, it is only possible to submit amendments by the TAB, even by the majority of the TAB, which the President of the Republic has disputed, in which points the President of the Republic returned the proposal. It is not difficult to see that if, for example, the title of the proposal is rewritten and, in substance, completely different passages are included, it does not comply with the requirement that it can be modified only in what the President of the Republic has already objected to. If you believe that there is a need to pass other laws, you will submit a new proposal, and you will go through this before the Parliament, in a proper procedure or in an extraordinary procedure, which you will initiate, but you will go through with it and vote on it. But in this way, as the President of the Republic has sent it back in this form, these amendments could not be made, even though you are not two-thirds, but would like to bring this through by a simple majority. Otherwise, nothing will change that, and, moreover, if this comes before the Constitutional Court, I believe that the Constitutional Court will also determine this. [[12.10]] Then it's true if you look at the Fundamental Law VIII. It states that the management and functioning of the parties are governed by two-thirds of the laws, i.e. fundamental laws. This may not be true of all technical laws or technical regulations. Obviously, how VAT should be admitted or, let's say, in what circle the accountant should fulfil obligations, this can also include parties, as the parties are civil society organisations, as well as associations. But the fact that you - and here the double speech, and I would like to signal to Róbert Répássy and the Fidesz faction that when the case is in front of a constitutional control, you will also look at what the parliamentary debate and the social debate were about, what the question really was about. Well, Csaba Dömötör said that it was a party financing issue, Gergely Gulyás spoke in front of me in the corridor and said that this was a party financing issue. Oops! If it is a party financing issue, then it concerns the management of parties. In addition, I could turn this around in such a way that you wanted to amend two laws, the amendment necessary for transparent campaigning and the law on electoral procedures. What God gives, this also concerned the management of the parties, and if they were brought in in this form, it still concerns the management of the parties, the parties who performed above 1 per cent and above 5 per cent, so they were named in the budget law. By the way, there are also penalties for 150,000 forints per poster. We do feel that this does not affect the management of the parties, do we not? Or I could put it this way, even if you are trying to determine what is party funding - a discount poster rental, because let's say, at the last minute, someone can log in to empty posters, or even a free poster spot, party funding or not, these should be defined, but these could only be done by a two-thirds law, and otherwise, what you have said supports this, even if you are trying to deny it now. Then the COF will not be ruled out by this proposal, what God gives. Because the fact that the CF, let's say, either through the MVM or through other large public companies, or this is also true for other satellite camouflaged civil organizations in your moonyard, will not be ruled out by the proposal, since it only covers organisations that are listed in the budget and receive budget support. There are many public companies that do not receive budget support in this form, so you can continue to play this dirty game. Not to mention that, on the basis of the amendment proposed by Répássy Róbert, the parties are, however, excluded from supporting, say, an association, this association will be able to place a poster only on a market basis in the future. The argument is quite absurd that public funds are used well if public finance organisations are able to advertise on a list price as expensive as possible. With you, we know that it is not possible for a public procurement to take place at or below a list price, but always well above it. But if a person, parties or other public institutions or organisations can advertise cheaper, it is not painful but joyful for taxpayers. And that's what you're saying, that you're trying to curb corruption when you're supporting your corrupt system of overpriced public procurement. Believe me, everyone in this country will understand that, and they will feel the fear that controls you, and they will replace you in 2018. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-23-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Now I'm going to ask the authors if any of them would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kósa as rapporteur, but before I give him a statement, I would like to inform him that there is now a time frame of 10 minutes in the debate and closing words, Mr Group Leader, and the rapporteur who wishes to speak. I'll give you the floor accordingly. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2017-06-23-25	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, In recent months Jobbik has been involved in an unprecedented party financing scandal: a billionaire, Lajos Simicska, let over posters with illegal means, for pennies, and used it to finance Jobbik in black, enveloped. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] Since we believe that it is not in the interests of the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian Parliament and it is in Hungary's interest to have black party financing, we thought that, using the experience of this corruption case, we would close the loophole where Lajos Simicska bought Jobbik for a kilo. Let's just say if we count the number of black rates, then Jobbik's kilo wasn't much. For a party who has ever had a political character and political ideas, a few billion forints, I can tell you, is a bargain - but what is the price on the market? However, we do not want Hungarian parliamentaryism to be about billionaires coming and buying up the parties black, which is why we have put this law before the Hungarian Parliament. It was very instructive that the complete opposition voted against this, about confirming the impression that the opposition is preparing for a pre-election sale, who knows what black funding the socialists would like to receive, Jobbik, all the opposition's parties, so much so that LMP voted off its own amendment in the end in this law. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: You're lying!]] In any case, I would like to ask Parliament to support this proposal if common sense remains a little bit in the debate. On behalf of the authors, I can support both elements of the TAB amendment. Your conscience is in charge of what you support. Those who will not support this bill clearly vote for corruption. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-23-26	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the group leader and the authors that they have used 2 minutes and 15 seconds of the 10-minute time frame. So they'll be able to use the difference between this and the closing word. I will ask Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. You can all see the timeframes on the billboard. I will also inform this House that there is no possibility of two-minute speeches in this type of debate. I will ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor from the MSZP Group to Mr Bertalan Tóth, Head of the Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2017-06-23-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It seems that this rapid heat wave has had its effect, since when the majority opinion of the TAB was presented, and who followed the TAB meeting, it was found that the Chairman of the Legislative Committee and the Legislative Committee read a matter of agreement sent for a five-party consultation as a TAB amendment. I sent this conciliation paper, and I would like to confirm here in plenary that neither I nor the members of the TAB of the Hungarian Socialist Party have submitted this as a TAB amendment, so it is completely incomprehensible to me that it will come here at all and we will vote on it today. I would like to say that this is an extremely mean move, and, as I said, it is simply completely incomprehensible, only because of the heat wave. I wonder if your Prime Minister is here now, who has recently asked for constitutional traditions on Members, how would you feel about such a completely incomprehensible pull. After all, the Rules of Procedure of the Legislative Committee clearly state that the TAB amendment tabled by the secretariat can be considered an initiative, while I have sent this five-party agreement paper to the Chairman of the Legislative Committee at the same time as the group leaders and independent representatives. Moreover, it seems that this is a despicable move, since two days ago Lajos Kósa said at a press conference that part of our proposal was unconstitutional, which concerned campaign sponsors. Now, on the Legislative Committee, it didn't seem like a constitutional breach to anyone, so this procedure is totally unacceptable. The Socialist Group, as indicated earlier, will vote against these proposals. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-23-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. From the group of the LMP, Mr Ákos Hadházy is next. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[12.20]]
u2017-06-23-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is very interesting that we are in an extraordinary meeting; one would think that extraordinary meetings are called together for an important and unexpected reason. I would have liked it if, say, Florian Wolf had to be relieved of his immunity, we'd love to come in, but it could be worse, it could be some kind of war event. Unfortunately, I think there really is a war going on. They're fighting freedom, they're defending their own freedom, because they're playing prison time if they lose in the next election. Obviously, therefore, everything must be done, and this war has a very important area, it has a very important battle. What's important is that you fight your battle for publicity. This battle must, of course, be fought by the opposition, as the government is constantly trying to take away opportunities from the opposition, constantly trying to limit the possibilities of the opposition. If you have to, if you think you're talking too much, people know too much about the whole open and covert scam series, let's say we buy newspapers with stolen money; we know very well that some people only buy county newspapers, then let's tell the Lawrence, and then there won't be any county newspapers. But there are posters, and the news says that the Prime Minister is going to get angry when he sees posters he doesn't like. I think we should increase the dose to fit, increase the dosage, but not this, probably because the drugs may have side effects, but instead the Prime Minister tells Lajos: Louis, take care of this with some law, I don't want to see such posters. It may also be that they have looked at it and measured that they have too many posters, and it is not just anger attacks, but it may also be that polls show that they are not as good as they think they are. But that doesn't change the fact that what they're doing is quite amazing, quite at the bottom of Hungarian parliamentarism. We've seen lows like this before. I'm afraid there's gonna be more lows. It is very important to know, and I would like to say once again to Mr Kósa, Mr Kósa, that I have said many times that, of course, the amendment you have brought in had nothing to do with the amendment by the LMP. If you don't know, I'll tell you that Minister Rogán sent us a letter saying that he wanted us to submit an amendment. This was very similar to the amendment by the MSZP. I laughed at it, and, of course, I gave something else that was about banning the entire government propaganda. Indeed, it is very important to have equality between the opinion of the opposition and the ruling parties, which is why the government propaganda should be abolished, since you are actually pushing your own propaganda with government money for several dozens of billions of forints. I put in a proposal like this, and you immediately rejected it in its proper manner. I also made a suggestion that there should be good equality, but not just for the posters, but for all advertising opportunities. That was rejected, too. For this reason, it is, of course, completely frivolous that you want any equal opportunities and any transparency. This law is about one thing: the Prime Minister gets angry when he sees a poster in which they do not say how beautiful and how good everything is in Hungary, but say that they may steal, they do steal. This law is very similar to that of the Trafic case, the Trafic Act, which Mr. Lazarus has just submitted, which you have submitted. Here, too, they say very nice sentences about what it's about, but it's very clear to everyone what this thing is about. You mustn't forget what happened today. We do not fully see what is happening here in Parliament today. It seems, then, that when opposition parties refuse to submit the amendments that you wish to make, which Antal Rogán would like, you will submit yourself, and a letter sent on behalf of the MSZP will be taken as an amendment. I'm a little sorry the MSZP didn't do that, so you should have said you'd withdraw this proposal, and then there wouldn't be any excitement here. There is excitement, obviously, if there is now a opposition representative who does not come and claims that he thought it was a half law, then we need to talk about a very dark game. I really hope that's not the case. It's quite shameful, quite amazing what's going on here. There's a freedom fight going on, and in this freedom fight, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] You may win a battle, I hope you will not, but the fight will not be won, many of you will lose your freedom. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-23-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Gábor Bárándy is coming from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-06-23-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, As an interested man, he has been monitoring the functioning of Parliament for 27 years, and I have now been here as a representative for the twelfth year, but I have, quite frankly, not lived it, even though we have lived a lot here within the walls, and I have not faced a situation where a pro-government committee president is presenting a proposal on behalf of an opposition party that the opposition party did not want to submit and did not present. This, my fellow Members, is as if our signature had been forged on the amendment proposal. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right!]] This amendment does not require a signature, but it has a very clear set of requirements and rules on how to do so. I would like to quote to you from our otherwise agreed order of business, from the Rules of Procedure of the Legislative Committee, which, by the way, was voted by the Fidesz Members, and I would like to say so far. So the quote, this is in point 18, if you want to look back:, the decision house rule 46. § 3 of the Committee discusses the proposed amendment proposed for adoption, whose textual proposal was forwarded by the initiative to the secretariat of the Committee by the end of the general working hours based on the law on public service officials on the working day preceding the committee meeting. I do not know what is not clear to Mr Répássy, what was not clear about this to President Gulyás. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: The committee decides. Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP, including Dr. László Szakács: Shame on you!]] It discusses the proposed amendment to be adopted by the Committee, which has been submitted to the secretariat of the Committee by the initiative on the working day preceding the committee meeting by the end of the general working hours based on the Public Service Officers Act. I do not know what is not clear to Mr Répássy, what was not clear about this to President Gulyás. (Dr. Répássy Róbert: The committee decides. - Intercoms from the lines of the MSZP, including Dr. László Szakács: Shame on you!) The order of business is clear - the proposal has not come to the secretariat of the committee, fellow Members. [[Attila Móring József will be replaced by Dr. István Tiba in the notary seat.]] Every time we look at customary rights [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: No need to smile, Mr. Secretary of State.]] The Hungarian Socialist Party has been submitting its amendments to the Legislative Committee for three years without me noticing them as Vice-President and submitting them to the secretariat of the committee. It's been our unbroken practice for three years. But even if you don't consider this practice, at least your own order of business, that's what you'd consider. Where it is clearly to be submitted to the secretariat of the Committee. Mr. Bertalan Tóth didn't file it there. I asked the chairman of the committee to show me at least as much in the accompanying letter that the Head of the Group asks Gergely Gulyás because he did not submit it to the chairman of the committee, but anyway, he asked Gergely Gulyás to discuss this proposal as an amendment proposal by the Legislative Committee, the President of the Commission could not present it. It's just because there isn't. You know, ladies and gentlemen, to live with a simple metaphor, it's like ordering a beer in a pub and putting it in someone else's account. There's a quick result. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] There will probably be fewer consequences here in Parliament. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that 24 of you voted in favour does not mean that you are right. The only thing that means right now is that you guys still have the majority. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] But the fact that the house violation and the assault didn't happen doesn't mean that. I also note, ladies and gentlemen, as I said there, that this case is extremely close to being called a crime. (Intercoms from the lines of the MSZP. ) If this was a signature, and it was done that way, it's a forgery, and that's what it is. Then it would have been a forgery. But the fact that you did this 27 years ago is simply unparalleled. [[12.30]] I would like to point out one more thing, which, if we could assume that there might have been some good intentions in the chairman of the committee - well, there wasn't. And do you know how you can be sure of that? Because you, both on the part of Fidesz and on the part of KDNP, have previously classified the movement of the Hungarian Socialist Party, let me put it this way that we did not wish to submit our proposal in the five-party negotiations to Parliament and did not wish to present it as an amendment. Fidesz didn't respond to that. KDNP reacted. So you knew perfectly well that we had no intention of submitting such a proposal. Compared to that, the chairman of the committee did so. I'm sorry, I'm wrong to say that the slightest doubt about his bad faith is nothing but a despicable political manipulation, which, obviously, may have had more than one purpose on your part. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That's right!]] Why didn't we take it back? - Congressman Hadházy suggested that. My answer is very simple, Congressman: I cannot withdraw a proposal that is not possible. That is why we did not withdraw it at the Legislative Committee because this proposal does not exist, it does not come from us, and since it is written that the MSZP proposal is not from Fidesz, it obviously does not come from Fidesz either. The Parliament could not vote on this proposal today. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That's right! Dr. László Kács: Now come in the janitor.]] And one last question: where is the authority of Parliament? [[Dr. László Kács: Fake! Agnes Kunhalmi: Cheating villains!]] If something offends you, it is that, abusing the majority of them, abusing the rules of order adopted by you, ignoring them, the chairman of the most important parliamentary committee will present this proposal. Well, if anything, this is a serious violation of Parliament's authority. I sincerely hope that László Kövér will have the right to do so, and he will fine not only those who show up an exclamation mark or a veto board, but also those who do not comply with Parliament's rules and order of business and those who abuse the majority of them to support such a proposal. [[Dr. Zsolt Legány: Insolentness!]] Shame on you!
u2017-06-23-32	Thank you.
u2017-06-23-33	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr János Volner, Head of Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We just witnessed an extremely interesting interlude. There was a debate about whether or not this is against the law, because our Fundamental Law states that detailed rules for the operation and management of parties are laid down by a fundamental law. Róbert Répássy, a representative of Fidesz, clearly said that this was not a party financing issue in his view, and then - and this was the interesting thing about the former interplay - his own group leader Lajos Kósa contradicted the words of the Fidesz MEP, who himself said that this was a tough party financing issue and thus exposed Fidesz. You've been exposed, ladies and gentlemen, by your own faction leader. If this is a question of party financing, then you are trying to regulate this by a so-called "fifty law" in an unlawful manner rather than by a two-thirds law. Lajos Kósa has brought you down, and for Lajos Kósa, as for the entire Fidesz faction, it is clear to the contrary that you, the Fundamental Law, which has been voted by the Fidesz Members themselves through the National Assembly, will also be trampled on in order to try to silence Jobbik's poster campaign by all means. So far they have stolen, continued with destruction, and the faction leader's assistant personally organized the Fidesz destruction commandos, who have done millions of HUF damage to these posters and then trampled on their own Fundamental Law in order to achieve their goal. What if it's not unscrupulous, what if it's not Bolsheviktempo? I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that the stakes of this whole thing are not between Jobbik and Fidesz, it is the fate of Hungarian democracy and a normal country. That's the stakes, ladies and gentlemen. Whether a government pushes it through, even at the cost of breaking the law, measures to cement its power that it hopes to silence the giant billboards of the largest opposition party and of the challenging force. That is the stakes of this debate. [[Tamás Sneider: Balkans!]] It is also very important to see that the government is trying to regulate a single media market segment with this proposal, just the one media market segment where there was more or less a balance between the opposition and the ruling parties. This is the only media market segment where a balance of power can be observed. Now they're trying to eliminate this one area. In all other media market segments there is significant pro-government dominance, brazen abuse of public funds. Just think that the country's sugar daddy Andy Vajna buys Hungary's second largest commercial TV company with public funds, and then Viktor Orbán, his own head of government, fills his own government commissioner's TV company with public funds in order to ensure that Andy Vajna doesn't actually have a penny to buy TV2 because he can finance the entire transaction from government ads. What if it's not rude, what if it's not a huge problem in party financing? [[Tamás Sneider: Ukraine!]] They don't want to touch that question. Another stain and moral cornerstone of government policy is Árpád Habony himself, the guy who regularly hangs around Parliament in high heels with women's bags. This man once again borrows 20 million forints, according to his own declaration, in order to fund his anti-lopkin pants and his branded purses and the like, at the next moment this debt sufferer is starting national newspapers, because from the very first moment the government has filled the press empire marked by the name of Habony, Andy Vajna with billions of taxpayers' money, so that Fidesz can continue to rule the country and that the machine of looting can continue to operate. What if it's not shameful, ladies and gentlemen? [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-06-23-34	It is worth looking at what you do not want to touch on the issue of party financing. It is enough that you just go up to the Ripost website and see that Viktor Orbán's government, which lied to the Christian-national, finances the appearance of pornographic content. You are filling this unfortunate country with the most disgusting filth every day, worth a better fate, just to read your tabloid media, and only to keep Prime Minister Viktor Orbán at this price, at the money of Lőrinc Mészáros. Shame on you! This has nothing to do with what you call Christian morality, it has nothing to do with national interests, you have always had more important corruption mechanisms than the interests of the country. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-06-23-35	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Mr Répássy, Member of the Fidesz Group, asked for the floor. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, President Gulyás will shortly make a statement on the proposal for an amendment of the Hungarian Socialist Party and its circumstances. However, I would add that there are two facts that have not been refuted here. One fact is that these proposals were proposed by the Socialist Party. On the proposal that the Parliament decides today, no one has said that it comes from a foreign person or a foreign party. So it seems that the biggest mistake we have made is that we took the proposals of the Hungarian Socialist Party seriously. After all, once again, no speaker has claimed that these proposals do not reflect the position of the MSZP; first of all. Secondly, it is not an irrelevant circumstance that, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, any Member may otherwise retain the amendments made by another Member. So it is completely irrelevant from whom the original proposals came, if it was accepted by the Legislative Committee of Parliament by a majority vote and submitted to the House. It is not the Members who submit the amendments in accordance with the house rules, but the committees who bring them to the House. So feel free to view these suggestions as suggestions from the Legislative Committee. Because they are, so the Legislative Committee submitted them to the House. It has tabled amendments in two numbers; I have already said that one is the amendment to party law and the related provisions, and the other is the amendments to economic advertising. [[12.40]] So, Mr House, this debate is so treacherous, it seems to me that it is an excuse just so that the MSZP does not take a stand today on its own proposals, its own ideas. This is just a false, unnecessary debate, because, as I said, either of us could present the MSZP proposal here, and it should be noted, for the sake of historical loyalty only, that it was originally a proposal from the MSZP. [[Tamás Sneider: Or even CÖF]] Dear House, As far as the substance is concerned, it does not make much sense that, in this mud-throwing that Mr Volner started, I don't know, he continued, we should be involved in this because I think that Mr. Group leader knows precisely that the clearest situation would be to promote both the government and the party and the opposition parties in the advertising market according to the same principles and rules. You, more than once, have demanded equal treatment and equal treatment of the ruling parties. This proposal, which is now in front of this House, sets out a set of conditions in which all organisations supported by the budget will be treated in the same way in the future. And this is done in a completely transparent way, so the public can check out how you advertise, what money you advertise, and at what cost you advertise. This will be fully public in the future, whether it is the government itself or the individual public bodies. or, as I said, other bodies receiving budgetary support are advertising. [[György Szilágyi: That's what you said. You weren't listening!]] So I haven't heard a single sentence about what's wrong with everyone being able to advertise on the same terms on the advertising market. What's wrong with being completely transparent and seeing everyone's advertising contract in the future? It is proposed that these advertising contracts should be made public within one month. What's wrong with that? Are they afraid of the public? I'm not surprised, by the way. Mr Szilágyi said interesting sentences, and said that in the future, companies engaged in economic advertising, therefore advertising companies, should not grant a fleet discount. Ladies and gentlemen, You don't think you're gonna be a big fleet with a fleet discount, say, Lajos Simicska or anyone, and that you can swallow this fleet discount as a political party. They remember the debates when people who, for some reason, were considered influential received different VIP discounts. But these debates took place ten years ago, and ten years ago, we agreed that such VIP discounts could not be allowed in the world of politics. The same is true of parties and anyone who speaks in the interest of the parties, who pursues advertising activities in the interest of the parties. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-23-36	Dear House, So you can vote calmly on these proposals because they will cleanse public life and create a level playing field in elections, and otherwise create a level playing field in the advertising market, where all such data will have to be published in the future, and then the public will decide who was right in this debate. Jobbik, who hides his advertising contracts, or was right about those who suggested publishing these advertising contracts. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-06-23-37	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr István Szávay, Member of the Parliament, is next. Here you go. Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are not afraid of the public, Congressman Répássy, you are afraid of the public. It was Gábor Kubatov who refused to tell us about your spending and previous poster campaigns in this regard, when the Alfa news asked. Also, you are your moonyard - typically speaking of the CÖF - which refuses to account for what you asked for and what you received HUF 508 million from Hungarian Electricity. In this regard, I filed a complaint about misappropriation, and yesterday I received the rejection of this refusal that it is not an infidel treatment that you are shoveling hundreds of millions of dollars from public companies in order to discredit the opposition with various posters and campaigns. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-23-38	And I'm also looking forward to the answer to the public interest request for data, because you're also keeping it a secret. I asked all the documents from Electricity and CF to see what they asked for, why, how this 508 million HUF went. You keep secrets about this, and if this law is passed, the same practice will continue, and hundreds of millions more will go to pro-government civil society organisations in order to bring down the opposition. Thank you.
u2017-06-23-39	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Gulyás Gergely, Vice-President of the Parliament, is next. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor. Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Parliament! At the beginning of the debate I was not here personally, and I hear that the members of the faction of the Hungarian Socialist Party who were still present at the time took the rules of procedure or the procedure of the Legislative Committee as a target and attacked it. I would like to point out to everyone that the Legislative Committee has acted in its own order of business and in keeping with the house rules to the full. We regret that if the Hungarian Socialist Party does not agree with its proposal on Monday, we cannot propose a regulatory solution. But I can say in the future that if any group leader had sent an amendment proposal to the Chairman of the Legislative Committee, indicating that this was the intention of the socialist members of the committee to amend it at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, I would have acted in a critical manner only if, in this case, it had not been on the agenda at the committee meeting if the committee had not been able to debate this proposal. The committee took a position on the system of affairs at 24:2. It was therefore clear that the vast majority of the committee, by far the majority of the government parties, had a clear opinion that this proposal, this amendment, was a matter of business. I asked him specifically, although I shouldn't have done this, the present member of the Hungarian Socialist Party, whether he didn't wish to withdraw the motion, because it would have been possible. The motion was not to be withdrawn. From this point forward, the Legislative Committee has maintained this as its own amendment intention, so we are talking about a proposal for amendment actually tabled by the MSZP and supported by the Legislative Committee. Since the House Rule is also clear that the Legislative Committee may submit an amendment in the event of a law returned by the President of the Republic, this is now, in legal terms, a proposal to amend the Legislative Committee. Finally, if I have been given the opportunity to speak in the debate, I would like to point out that the internal crisis of the left, its quarrels and the intellectual, moral and political crisis within the MSZP do not belong to the Legislative Committee in any form. I believe that the MSZP should explain why their own proposal for Monday is not supported on Tuesday, Wednesday or Friday, and I hope that in the future, if such amendments are submitted to the committee or to the chairman of the committee, it will be possible to discuss them. Here we see that the socialist faction, which still thinks of itself as self-reliance on Monday or Tuesday, has been given guardianship in a day and 24 hours, in which case civil law already regulates the category of guardianship. If it is indicated that László Botka, who does not have a mandate, is the guardian of the MSZP Members, and without him, can not make a valid declaration of law, then I am naturally open to consider this solution, it will be novel in the history of Hungarian politics, but whether the procedure of the Legislative Committee or I personally will be slandered because today they do not agree with the amendment proposal sent through the e-mail address used by their own group leader in our previous official correspondence, I say, let us consider this as a worrying symptom of the internal crisis of the Hungarian Socialist Party, perhaps of the left, but we cannot in any way think that this procedure is not in order. By the way, adding once again that the Legislative Committee can only submit an amendment, so the motion tabled by the Hungarian Socialist Party as a proposal is today an amendment of the Legislative Committee before the House. I think it is highly controversial in detail, but overall, it would be a proposal which greatly contributes to the cleanliness of public life. And here I would like to draw the attention of all opposition groups to the fact that, when they vote 'no' or do not support this motion, the second time they make it impossible to prohibit the unlawful use of party funding in so-called fake parties. The fact is that it was you who most of the time said, as a criticism, that the party that started in the elections and established a national list was not obliged to repay the support received as party funding. We have accepted this criticism, we have once convened a five-party consultation to see if any of the factions are in favour of this amendment. None of the factions supported this amendment and have therefore not submitted it. It is now part of the amendment proposal of the Hungarian Socialist Party, and in addition in the form that if one party does not achieve the 1 percent result in the parliamentary elections, it is not only obliged to repay the full support, but that if this does not happen, the members of the governing body of the party have full, joint and personal liability. [[12.50]] This will be voted off if the amendment tabled by the Hungarian Socialist Party, supported by the Legislative Committee, is not supported, this will be voted off after it is in itself, whenever only this and Ve. we would have proposed amendments to some of its technical rules, and they did not support it. So from now on, then, the Members who do not support the proposal and now vote 'no' have the sole responsibility for being able to abuse it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-23-40	I will add that all parliamentary parties will enjoy equal opportunities provided for by the new campaign finance law. So in this respect, I would like to further promote the amendment tabled by the Socialist Party and adopted by the Legislative Committee. And I ask you not to argue on procedural issues, these have already been decided separately by the competent committee of Parliament, but on the content of the proposal, which gives us the hope that a clearer public life in Hungary can be achieved both in the field of campaign financing and in the field of posting of posters. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-06-23-41	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, Member György Szilágyi of the Jobbik Group has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. So much, Congressman Répássy, that you are simply not telling the truth. We'll have to look at the TAB records, and then we'll find out that you're not telling the truth. [[Intercoms from the pro-government line:]] There is only one reason for this law: Fidesz is afraid of Jobbik. Orbán is afraid of the candidate for Prime Minister Jobbik, Gábor Vona. You are afraid of us, and our legitimate posters are constantly being destroyed by Lajos Kósa and his circle, and vandal destruction is being carried out on him. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-23-42	Historical facts can also be seen, and a historical parallel can be drawn to this law in connection with the old times, because at the time, in the Rákosi system, only content can be displayed in the media, on the media surfaces allowed by the then party and Mátyás Rákosi. Then, in the Kádár system, only media content allowed by the then party and János Kádár. And now, 27 years after the so-called change of regime, we have reached the point that you want only content to appear in the media that the party, you and Viktor Orbán, will allow. This is outrageous, and you should be ashamed of yourself.
u2017-06-23-43	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Imre Vejkey is coming from the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard a lot in this debate, but we need to get back to what the debate is really about. The debate itself concerns a bill sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic, adopted at the Parliament's meeting on 14 June 2017, to amend certain laws necessary for transparent campaigning. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Indeed, on 14 June 2017, the House voted on this issue, the vote was very specific. The vote was very specific, because the governing parties had just shown in this vote how compromised they were, because by LMP... [[Dr. Wind Bernadett, no.]] You're laughing in vain, ladies and gentlemen. - the proposal adopted by the LMP was voted in full by the Fidesz-KDNP. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett, no. Don't lie to me. Noise in opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] And who didn't vote for it? The LMP did not vote for the proposal that he had tabled. Thank you very much for your attention, but I would like to continue. After that, we reached the Tuesday day, when it happened that there was a House Committee meeting scheduled for 2:30, 13:30, and a few minutes before that, I received a text notification completely unexpectedly that the MSZP called for a five-party meeting at 2:00. The board meeting ended pretty quickly, and I arrived at the White House for 2 hours for this five-party meeting, where the MSZP submitted a proposal for an amendment that he wanted to present to the TAB. We had a closed discussion about this, and then there was a press conference, and then the MSZP amended it and sent this to President Gulyás Gergely TAB. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks. Martin Gyöngyösi: In fact, he is a true Democrat!]] There were procedural disputes about whether Gergely Gulyás acted legally or illegally. I'm definitely saying that he acted legally. He acted legally because the head of the MSZP faction sent him this material specifically as a TAB modification. President Gulyás Gergely would have acted in violation of the law if he hadn't presented this to the committee. I believe that there is a tickle-cock trap for President Gulyás Gergely here, because if he presents it, the problem is, if he does not present it, that is the problem. I believe that President Gulyás Gergely acted in the most legitimate way when he presented it. Obviously, a Democrat, that's right, thank you for your expressions. Martin Gyöngyösi: A true Democrat! North Korea could be anything. - Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. ) So, in the event that the MSZP objected to this, it is clear that it would have had the opportunity to withdraw what it had presented by its group leader, but not to withdraw it. Mr Gergely Gulyás at the TAB meeting also called the MSZP to withdraw if they did not want this, but the answer was that they would not withdraw it. Ladies and Gentlemen, There was then no alternative but to vote on a point of order, and the decision on the TAB by overwhelming majority was that yes, it was legal, and yes, this must be discussed, and the TAB also discussed this amendment No 1 proposal of the MSZP, and also accepted it by an overwhelming majority. This was followed by Amendment 2, which was also accepted, and in fact the bill is now on this basis before this House. I think it's very important, because this bill makes it clear how much, how much you can advertise, make outdoor advertising. So far, this part, this area of advertising has not been regulated, but now it would be regulated as a list price or, if it is a legal person, a European public procurement must be carried out, and it is obvious that a European public procurement will give you access to the outdoor interface at a cheaper price than if you want access to it at a flat list price. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-23-44	So I think you're going to change the relationships that have been in the gray area for years, decades. Please support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-06-23-45	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Gábor Staudt. Here you go, Congressman. 1 minute 11 seconds. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-23-46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It was a lot of things, but what would you call it when, with a majority decision, I would like to rule out that organisations that manage public money can use certain services at a cheaper price, so that public money is spent in a cost-effective way? It's basically a statutory infidelity treatment that you'd like to commit, and in addition, it's only being spread around a certain circle. So this will not be true for CF, and we also expect Gábor Kubatov to answer the question of how much, how, and from what source Fidesz spent between 2002-2016. Because you know what Gábor Kubatov said? In case you don't know, it's not a matter of public interest. So, in one case, it is not a matter of public interest that what was spent in 2002-2016 and how, in other cases, they want to tighten up. You know, it's like, it's equal orbits and equal odds - in response to Répássy Róbert - like if we put together a Vladimir Klicsko-Répássy Róbert boxing match, and we say that everyone has two gloves, the track is equal, let the best win. Thank you very much. [[Several Members are arriving in the Chamber. Noise.]] Thank you very much, Congressman.
u2017-06-23-47	My fellow Members, please take your seats. Member Bence Tuzson of the Fidesz Group has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. [[13.00]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In this debate today, there is little mention of what this law is really about, that this law is in reality about black funding, that political parties are financed in a way that is inaccessible. That's what we're trying to do with this legislation, this law. This is not about whether someone can comment on a poster or not, but about how we fund political parties. After all, if Simicska gives the same posters, 150 forints, 3600 posters to Jobbik for 24 million forints, and 150 posters to LMP for 12 million forints, the difference is obvious, and it seems that Lajos Simicska bought a political party for a kilo. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] This is the method of financing that cannot be allowed at a later stage. It is unacceptable for political parties to be financed in this form, not transparently, not in public, in a way that is not visible. That's what we're trying to stop with this law. [[Interjections and clarity in the ranks of Jobbik.]] Ladies and gentlemen, like everyone else, [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-23-48	It is in your interest, too, dear right-wing Members, and Members of the MSZP, that the funding and funding of political parties should be transparent and that political parties should not be bought by kilos, because unfortunately, this has happened to Jobbik in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. László Kács: Have you submitted anything for us?!]] Thank you very much, Congressman. From the KDNP Group, Mr István Hollik will speak. [[Dr. László Kács: Have you submitted anything else for us?! Or not anymore?!]] Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-06-23-49	I would ask my fellow Members to allow the speech to be spoken. Here you go. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. As I see it, the opposition representatives [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] all [[Dr. László Kács: Hollik, have you given anything else for us today?! Anything else you guys put in for us?!]] They're hiding behind points of order, but the point of the matter, the essence of the debate, is that we've seen a clear black funding over the last year. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] We saw Lajos Simicska in black [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] He's funding Jobbik, that's obvious. This debate, which we are now having, is why we have developed, and that is why we need to conduct this debate, and we have seen that there are sound, compromised opposition proposals, such was the proposal of the LMP, and this was the proposal of the socialists. That's why we find it outrageous, by the way. that LMP does not vote for its own proposal, the MSZP (Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes) When it comes to corruption, he will once again vote against his own proposal. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] That is why I would like to ask my fellow socialists that, although László Botka may have instructed you to do something else, please accept it. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Sit down!]] that this bill is about black funding and about transparent campaign financing and party financing. Therefore, whatever your candidate for Prime Minister has said, please vote for this proposal. [[Dr. László Kács: What did you put in for us, Hollik, what do you say?]] You know we're finally gonna get through this. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] because the question here is about black funding, how Jobbik could get nearly 3,000 posters for HUF 25 million from Lajos Simicska. Everyone knows it's way below the market price, everyone knows it's how he financed it, and that's how Lajos Simicska bought Jobbik. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-23-50	With this bill, we can put an end to this blissful situation. I would ask my fellow opposition Members, the LMPs, the MSZPs, to support this proposal. Those who do not support this proposal are in favour of black finance and corruption. Thank you very much. [[Moraj in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr János Halász is coming from the Fidesz Group.
u2017-06-23-51	Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[Interventions from opposition representatives.]] Thank you very much for the floor. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear... [[Interjections and clarity in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, When we tabled this bill, we made it clear that we wanted to create transparent funding for the parties. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: How terrible that a party is campaigning! It's awful, isn't it?!]] It's been almost two months since the submission, and in these two months, we've heard a lot about the law and the event that triggered the submission of the law. It was clear that everyone in Hungary could see it, because, as they admitted, there were more than 2 thousand campaigns, posters of the goodies. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] In Simicska's posters. It was clear that such a... - a step like this can't just happen overnight. [[Intercoms, noise.]] When we asked what happened, what did they say? They took out 150 million forints of credit. When... [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] When we talked about who, that turned out to be crooked, they didn't even get credit. Weeks passed, we didn't know, and you guys couldn't explain to me what this was all about. [[Tamás Sneider intervenes.]] [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] And now this situation has come to pass. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Yes! Adam Mirkóczki: Relax! Relax.]] [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] (Tamás Sneider intervenes) When they couldn't do it, they couldn't do it, because they were involved in crime and their party was involved in crime, they had to tell them the real prices, and it was a yelling, yelling thing: they lied to him, they lied, they got these posters for pennies (intercoms from Jobbik's ranks). ), Lajos Simicska's posters for thousands and thousands. They corrupted their entire party. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] (Tamás Sneider intervenes) When they couldn't do it, they couldn't do it, because they were involved in crime and their party was involved in crime, they had to tell them the real prices, and it was a yelling, yelling thing: they lied to him, they lied, they got these posters for pennies (intercoms from Jobbik's ranks). ), Lajos Simicska's posters for thousands and thousands. They corrupted their entire party (interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: That's right! - Adam Mirkóczki: Relax! Relax. Turns out Jobbik sold his soul to a billionaire. The Jobbik has become a buy-out party, and now you're not hiding it, you've told me how cheap you are. (Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. ) We must not let this happen, because if this option is maintained in Hungarian democracy, we must not let it go. (Tamás Sneider intervenes) When they couldn't do it, they couldn't do it, because they were involved in crime and their party was involved in crime, they had to tell them the real prices, and it was a yelling, yelling thing: they lied to him, they lied, they got these posters for pennies (intercoms from Jobbik's ranks). ), Lajos Simicska's posters for thousands and thousands. They corrupted their entire party (interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: That's right! - Adam Mirkóczki: Relax! Relax. Turns out Jobbik sold his soul to a billionaire. The Jobbik has become a buy-out party, and now you're not hiding it, you've told me how cheap you are. (Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. ) This should not be allowed, because if this possibility is maintained in Hungarian democracy (intercoms from the lines of the MSZP). - Noise. - The president's ringing. Then we can have all the parties who are like you. (Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. ) [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] That is why this law is the law that will show in the vote who it is and which party it is against corruption. Anyone who votes against this law is against corruption, who does not vote for this law, who gives himself a certificate that he would like to sell his own party to billionaires. That is what this proposal is about. We're going to vote now... We're going to vote now. (Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. ) [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Please think about this, we ask all parties The LMP, which submitted proposals the other day and did not vote because Simicska's hand may have reached that point. You may not even have to ask for Jobbik, because we remember the other day, when the law didn't pass, how relieved they are, they're still crying about it so that it doesn't happen to be law. (Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. ) [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Yes! Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] It will become one, and we will create a situation in Hungary so that the parties cannot be bought by weight, just as Simicska has bought you Jobbikkas. I ask you to support our proposal. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-23-52	Thank you for your attention. [[No one's reporting.]] Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members whether there is another person who wishes to speak out on time. I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. [[On the mark of Lajos Kósa:]] I would like to ask if, on behalf of the authors, anyone would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Zoltán Pride: You shouldn't, Louis! Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] I see that Mr Lajos Kósa wishes, yes.
u2017-06-23-53	I give you the floor, Mr. Group Leader. [[It's constant noise.]] Mr. President. Dear House, [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] In Hungarian Democracy [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes. Dr. László Kács: What have you put in our name, Louis?! Agnes Kunhalmi: What have you put in our name?!]] the tradition is that the organisations involved in democracy are called parties. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Since it is in everyone's primary interest to ensure that democracy and democratic competition are conducted under clean conditions, [[Interventions from the opposition benches Defiance in the ranks of Jobbik. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] It is clear from day to day that transparency [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] one of the most important laws, the system governing the financing of parties. [[Dóra Dúró: That's two-thirds! Intercoms from Jobbik: That's two-thirds!]] [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] If there's a loophole [[Intercoms from the opposition benches. Dr. László Kács: Have you given anything for us?!]] If there's a loophole on this one (Dóra Dúró: It's two-thirds! - Intercoms from Jobbik: Two-thirds!) If there is a gap, then what has not happened in Hungary (Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.) For the first time, a billionaire buys a parliamentary party into a pound. [[Intercom from the opposition benches.]] That's what happened to the Jobbik. [[Constant intervention from the opposition benches.]] Maybe it's better if we just call the Jobbik the Simicska Party, because since it happened, [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Aren't you ashamed?!]] [[Intercom from the opposition benches.]] with all their vibrations, with every comment, Lajos Simicska's intentions and policies are implemented. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: You should know!]] Perhaps it is better if we simply call the Jobbik the Simicska Party, because since this happened (Continuous intervention from the opposition benches). ), with all their vibrations, with all their comments, Lajos Simicska's intentions and policies are implemented. (Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Aren't you ashamed? ! ) By the way, it doesn't matter whether (Interjection from the opposition benches). ) how they try to hide it, old wisdom: the one who pays is flabby. [[Dr. László Kács: This is the first time anyway! Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[Intercom from the opposition benches.]] You've been paid by Lajos Simicska for a long time, with party support, black, while by the way, VAT fraud is being committed. Perhaps it is better if we simply call the Jobbik the Simicska Party, because since this happened (Continuous intervention from the opposition benches). ), with all their vibrations, with all their comments, Lajos Simicska's intentions and policies are implemented. (Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Aren't you ashamed? ! ) By the way, it doesn't matter whether (Interjection from the opposition benches). ) how they try to hide it, old wisdom: the one who pays is flabby. (Dr. Tamás Bellozó: You should know!) You have been paid by Lajos Simicska for a long time, with party support and black, while by the way, VAT fraud is being committed (Dr. László Szakács: For the first time anyway! - Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP. ) more clearly than ever, which is very worrying when you have sworn to obey and enforce the laws. (Intercom from opposition benches. ) [[Dr. László Kács: Do I make any more suggestions for us, talk about this! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] That's why there's been a serious mistake. [[Dr. László Szakács: Therefore, you are submitting suggestions on our behalf! Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] If we're not talking about the point, whether we're doing something to prevent other parties from buying up billionaires. [[Intercom from the opposition benches.]] [[Intercom from the opposition benches.]] because we see the previous vote... [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] - the previous vote proved that the entire opposition had put the price tag on itself, because it refused to vote for the law that closed this loophole and put it on itself: come, billionaires, we are cheap, we are now asking for the black money. (Intercom from opposition benches. ) LMP, MSZP, the Jobbik has proven this for a long time. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Are you talking about Lőrinc Mészáros?!]] [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] From now on, we can have no other responsibility but to try to preserve the most important aspect of democracy that the will of the electorate matters, not of the billionaires. From now on, we have no responsibility but to try to preserve the most important feature of democracy that the will of the electorate matters, not of the billionaires (Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Lőrinc Mészáros? ! Although they should be world-famous stock market speculators like György Soros (Interjections from Jobbik's ranks). Or they're just like Lajos Simicska! [[13.10]] That is why, honourable Parliament, we have not stopped in some way from preventing Hungarian democracy from transforming into some sort of Latin American system in accordance with the opposition's will and the will of a few billionaires. [[There's an uproar in the opposition benches. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Lajos, this doesn't look good on you!]] Of course, we note that the opposition does not want this, but it must be made absolutely clear that this vote separates who is in the party of corruption and who is not in the party of corruption. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] If the opposition wants to remain on the side of corruption, they must bear all the consequences because they need to know [[A lot of noise, a lot of interruptions. Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-23-54	that hundreds of millions of billionaires may be sweet at the beginning, but it's a very bitter story. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Some members of the MSZP fraction in a choir, applauding: Good job, Louis! Well done, Louis. Well done, Louis. The president's ringing the bell. Noise.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear MSZP faction, I think that this is not the way to express your opinion. So I'm gonna need you guys to step inside. We will now continue our work with the decisions on the agenda, and I ask everyone to take their seats, to check that their cards have been properly placed, and to try to bring their volume down to the level that will make sense of what the chairman will say in the vote. Dear Parliament, It follows a decision by the President of the Republic on the proposal for a legislative amendment to the Act amending certain laws necessary for transparent campaigning, adopted on 14 June 2017 by the Parliament for consideration, and the final vote. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/15329/18, letter from the President of the Republic T/15329/19. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. T/15329/21 and T/15329/22. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the provisions of the House Rules, there is no possibility to maintain a proposal amending the decision and to request a separate vote. [[Dr. László Kács: Which one? The one Fidesz put in for us?]] First, we decide on an amendment to the Legislative Committee. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 3, 4 and 7, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that point 8 of the amending proposal is linked to points requiring a qualified majority, so we will decide on them at the same time. [[Vote.]] So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/15329/21. Points requiring a majority of its proposed amendment and related point 8. Please vote. [[Dr. János Harghitai reporting.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not accept the points requiring a qualified majority of the amendment proposal and the related 8th point by 122 votes in favour, 68 against and without abstention. [[Dr. László Kács: Why the yes?]] János Harghitai indicated that one should be added to the vote So 123, but that doesn't include two thirds of the people present. [[Vote.]] I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/15329/21. A simple majority of its proposed amendment. Please vote. I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the additional points of the amendment, which require a simple majority, by 123 votes in favour, 68 against and without abstentions. In view of the fact that Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the legislative committee's amendment proposal, during the final vote, we will decide on the text of the law which has not been announced with the agreed points of the amendment proposal. [[Vote.]] I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the President of the Republic T/15329/18. Act sent for signature, but not published, with amendments which have just been adopted. Please vote. I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the law by 123 votes in favour, 68 votes in favour and no abstentions. [[Noise. Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, Now it's 1:15 p.m., and we're moving on to interpellation negotiations. Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to make sure that those who now have to leave the Chamber on an urgent matter should do so in a way that the interpellation continues without delay. I apologize to Congressman László Varga. I think it would be unworthy to give the floor as long as my fellow Members who leave the Chamber do not do so. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-23-55	Dear Parliament, Member László Varga, representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: "The future of Miskolc." Congressman László Varga has the floor, please. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I learned from the government info of 6 April 2017, János Lázár, that the domestic bus and military industry will be restarted in the framework of an industrial development programme. Obviously, this decision could also mean the relaunch of the domestic steel industry, which could be a driving sector that could be a supplier to the domestic automotive industry, ensuring the demand for raw materials. I have interpelled several times, asked several times here in Parliament regarding the future of the Hungarian steel industry, as this is a very important question for my constituency, Miskolc and Diósgyőr. I have to say that in the 2010 election campaign, about seven years ago, Fidesz in Miskolc campaigned a lot by rebooting the DAM, the metallurgical of walnutsgyőr. It has been said that some 1,000 people can have jobs. In the first four years nothing happened in this story, then practically a week and a half before the 2014 elections, it was announced just before the election that about EUR 50 million of investment was planned, even if not in the DAM area, but in the DIGÉP area, a mini steelworks were created that could give jobs to hundreds of people as they claimed. Unfortunately, this job was not successful. Although the project was launched in 2015, it failed for various reasons, so it can be said that in the last seven years there has been nothing in the case of the steel industry in Diósgyőr, despite your promises. I would have liked to have asked Minister Mihály Varga, but I see that he left quickly after the vote, so I am asking Mr State Secretary my questions. Are they counting on the metallurgy in Diósgyőr if they want to turn steel production to a higher degree in Hungary? So are they counting on the rebooting of the metallurgical plant in Diósgyőr? I'd like to ask you who you've contacted for this purpose. Who did you talk to to make steel production a driving industry in Miskolc again and give jobs to many? [[13.20]] Some data on the project that would have been implemented as planned in 2014. About 350 thousand tonnes of high-quality steel would have been produced at 100-120 billion in turnover, directly providing jobs for 500 people and including the creation of jobs for indirect suppliers for up to 1,500 people. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I would therefore like to ask you firmly that the re-launch of steel production is another campaign bluff after seven years, or they would actually like to help restart the metallurgical in Diósgyőr. If that's what they really want, then obviously I'm a partner in this myself.
u2017-06-23-56	and the system of relations I have acquired so far on this issue, I am happy to make it available, but I look forward to the Secretary of State's reply. Thank you.
u2017-06-23-57	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, State Secretary István Lepsényi responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, This spring, the government decided to implement the National Steel Action Programme, which aims to improve the competitiveness of the sector. It focuses on the possibility of creating a higher value added steel production, including the re-launch of the production of high-quality steel alloys. The main actions of the Action Programme include supporting the anti-dumping and anti-subsidy market defence position at European level. It is well known that there is significant Chinese dumping in Europe, support for steel companies in the R &amp; D tender, development-intensive state-of-the-art steel industry, the creation of material and personnel conditions in the field of industry-related vocational training and higher education, and, in addition, the limitation of the outflow of steel waste that can be used as steel deposit material and the development of the steel industry's supplier capacity. In 2004, during the Medgyessy government, the steel works in Diósgyőr were owned by Dunaferr and indirectly by the Ukrainian owner at the time, which undertook to maintain production, while the factory suspended production in 2009. In the fall following the 2008 crisis, there was no possibility in the steel industry for the two domestic steel producers, the Ozdi Steel Works and Dunaferr to consider larger-scale developments. The possibility of restarting the DAM at the central location of Diósgyőr is significantly influenced by the fact that the factory area is surrounded by a residential area. Even under state-of-the-art procedures, steel production is subject to a certain degree of environmental pressure, which may be a serious obstacle to the re-launch of the DAM, which was established for the former production of stainless steel. At present, the domestic steel industry is mainly producing low-processing sheet products or concrete steels, but due to the increasing national economic weight of the manufacturing sectors, demand is expected to increase in the market for high-profit steel products of any higher quality. Accordingly, both domestic steel producers have long-term development plans and are working on them and are considering investments in order to expand their current product choice, in particular to enable the production of quality steel alloys for automotive supplies. In addition to the needs of the fast growing automotive industry, construction, mechanical engineering, energy machinery, green industry and defence industry will also be a receiver of the quality domestic steel product. The government is determined to ensure the widest possible supply of raw materials to the manufacturing industry as a result of the planned investments. Accordingly, for both Dunaferr and Ozd Steel Works, negotiations will be held to clarify the conditions for modernising production and ensuring that the necessary investments are made in the production of new quality steel products. However, we must take into account that the relevant EU directives provide a limited opportunity to do so. In view of the fact that the steel industry is excluded from the Union subsidy possibilities, the domestic subsidy scheme should be compatible with these marginal conditions. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] In addition to these two media, Hungarian investors are working on a coordinated regional steel development concept as a third medium on the basis of a previously unsuccessful private initiative. [[The president's ringing again.]] which includes both the production of steel raw materials and the development of working and processing, and which we can support. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-23-58	Our objective is to make a neutral contribution to the development of Hungarian industry.
u2017-06-23-59	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I won't accept the answer. I've asked Mihály Varga several times about this case, the closest I've been to her is to answer, by the way, but she left very quickly after the vote. They didn't give me any real answers to my question, I'll remember that I asked you last June, they said pretty much the same things. It is such an important concern for the government's determination, I think, after seven years, very little for the people of Diósgyőr and Miskolcs. First of all, he said about the problems in the area. I did not suggest that, in the framework of a brownfield project, the programme "Modern Cities" should not only be a greenfield industrial park development, but that the area of DAM be rehabilitated. They didn't take my advice, but they didn't take it, even though it would actually make sense, and it would have helped to restart steel production. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I think you can support any kind of response on your part if something actually happens. This is unacceptable in this form.
u2017-06-23-60	What I'm asking you to do is either help me reboot the steel production of walnutsgyőr, but stop fooling around with the Miskolcs. Thank you. [[Vote.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 31 against and without abstention.
u2017-06-23-61	Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. Helikopter, luxury jet, luxury life loans? It's an address. By responding to the interpellation, the Prime Minister appointed Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Mr Károly Kontra will respond to the interpellation. Congressman, you have the floor. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear fellow Members, On 9 June 2017, a luxury private aircraft of HUF 16,5 billion landed at Ferihegy airport. That would not be so interesting, for there are many rich people in the world who can afford to travel with such a luxury private machine from their legal income. The interesting thing is that this luxury machine did not come to Ferihegy with one of the Saudi oil sheiks, but with Árpád Habony, including international tax advisors and lawyers. Yes, the Árpád Habony, who, according to some, has business ties to the Prime Minister of Hungary, Viktor Orbán, and also to a government minister, Antal Rogán, who, based on the latest information, is known to spend his life on loans from Andy Vajna and others. Although it should be noted that he may have received a lot of loans if he can fly with such machines, but the independent NAV led by András Tállai does not care, they do not feel the need to examine how Árpád Habony can afford such luxury. Árpád Habony probably came home from Hong Kong on the same day. How interesting that there is also the offshore company that is the biggest winner of the Fidesz Mafia settlement bond business! Nearly 85 percent of the assets of the residency bond business could have landed in this company, i.e. approximately HUF 100-130 billion. Is it possible that Árpád Habony was discussing the fate of this HUF 100-130 billion in Hong Kong? I'll tell you again, who we know from the media that he lives on loans. This strange situation is added to the fact that, after landing the luxury machine, the police also showed up to keep the journalists on the scene away and do not interfere with the illustrious passengers with unnecessary questions. But the cherry was still when Árpád Habony left with the helicopter assigned to the scene in spite of police insurance, which was supposed to be spooky like the one that Antal Rogán went to Little Counto concert with. It seems that the basic element of fidesz luxurious life has been to look at the landscape and the working subjects from above, and that's how it is in the democracy of Orbán. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[13.30]]
u2017-06-23-62	Dear Secretary of State, There are a lot of questions about this case. On the one hand, do they not feel the need to examine whether a person living on loans meets all his tax obligations if he is able to live in such luxury? The other question is whether the police acted legally when protecting passengers from the questions of journalists waiting for them from a luxury private jet. Did Árpád Habony have or does he have a diplomatic passport from the Orbán government? And finally, on what basis does Árpád Habony receive such a privileged procedure in a strictly secured object at the airport, so that he can simply get out of there by helicopter? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-06-23-63	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Károly Kontra will respond to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: That's suspicious.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to state that Árpád Habony is not standing and has never been in a relationship with any government agency or person, does not perform public functions, is not a politician and does not perform any public activities, has no diplomatic passport. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: No. Only Árpád Habony!]] However, it is a shocking demand for you to expect the government to follow when, with whom and where the Hungarian citizens are travelling. It may be appropriate for an aggressive party like your party, but I would like to point out that we no longer live in communism for God, Hungary is a free country where Hungarian citizens are free to travel anywhere in the world. Honourable Congressman, In answer to the question of police involvement, I can tell you that at the location and time mentioned by you, police officers from the Airport Police Directorate did not perform any insurance tasks, nor did they take any police measures. The police acted in accordance with the rules applicable to them, and no police measures were taken against journalists on the ground. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Why, was he there?]] If you are so sensitive to moral issues and not just about money, I suggest you coordinate with your fellow MEP, Béla Kovács. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Was that the question? Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: But now they asked about Árpád Habony!]] Although your party president has previously promised to investigate your suspected espionage representative's case, he has not done so to this day. Member Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, said on 19 January 2016 in ATV, and I quote: I do not know how Béla Kovács had money or how he could give Jobbik a few million forints. And Gábor Vona told the Hungarian Nation about the case [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Was that the question? A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-23-64	I quote: I've heard a lot of things, including unsettling things I'm looking for answers to. Mr. Congressman! You continue to hide Béla Kovács, while a number of questions are open on the matter, to which Hungarian citizens rightly expect an answer - answer, Congressman. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-23-65	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor. Mr President, how can it be accepted when Mr Secretary of State denies even the facts about which there are pictures and videos that the police were there and prevented journalists from asking their questions. You don't think the police were there, and then I'm gonna have to accept that. We have been talking all day about you saying with great voices that transparency, black money, corruption, and when the question arises in such serious cases of hundreds of billions, when the names of Árpád Habony and Antal Rogán may be involved, you do not find it important to investigate these matters interestingly. And we also talked about the media, you know, the media that you and Árpád Habony built out of public money is a fidesz media. Put the heavy hundreds of millions under Árpád Habony, who, by the way, you think has nothing to do with you and Fidesz. Yes, you do. He's building his little empire, doing their dirty finances and everything else. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] And he didn't answer one thing: does this man, who you think he doesn't have, have a diplomatic passport, have you, the government, given a diplomatic passport to Árpád Habony? [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-23-66	You should have answered that. You wouldn't even answer that. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Anyone in favour of corruption votes in favour! Vote.]] Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 101 votes in favour, 22 against and without abstentions.
u2017-06-23-67	Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, submitted an interview to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office: It's an address. By responding to the interpellation, Prime Minister, Mr János Süli, Minister, who is responsible for the design, construction and commissioning of the two blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, has been entrusted with the task and competence of the subject. At the request of Minister Attila Aszódi, State Secretary, responds to the interpellation. Congresswoman, you have the floor. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, According to Bloomberg New Energy Finance's recent forecast, electricity prices will decrease by 60 percent over the next two decades due to renewables. More and more solar and wind power capacity is being created and investment costs are expected to start falling. This is not said by us, but by one of the most prestigious international prognosis makers, which the entire industry takes for granted. But we're going to have a nuclear power plant that will produce multiples of the current market price. The average European market price was 12 forints per kilowatt hour last week, which is roughly the same as Paks I's current producer price. If we take 60 percent of this off, we get about five forints a kilowatt. Paks II. However, during the period of credit repayment, i.e. from 2026 to 21 years, i.e. during the period for which this forecast applies, the government will, according to its own calculations, produce a price of HUF 27-31 per kilowatt hour. Who are we going to sell our 27-forint electricity to when we can buy electricity on the market for 5 forints? You know very well that this is not just a theoretical option. You are concerned that we are already importing one third of the electricity consumption, but you do not add that this high share of imports is because the European market is cheaper to obtain electricity, because everyone in Hungary, apart from the banned wind power plants and the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, produces electricity more expensively.
u2017-06-23-68	What fate awaits the construction of Paks II with at least HUF 4,000 billion in public money? Either it will stand empty, or it will cause losses to itself and to Hungarian consumers every minute of its operation, who could use 5 HUF wholesale electricity, but they will be forced to purchase 27 HUF due to Viktor Orbán's failed nuclear contract. This forecast shows not only what an anti-national offense it was to order Putin's Russian nuclear power plant, but also that the government is committing the same kind of misdemeanour against the country when it is imposing administrative restrictions on solar and wind power, which is actually offering cheap electricity. It is now apparent that the secret agreement with Putin will not only have a political price but also a very high actual price. Therefore, please respond to who you plan to pay for the increase in the Hungarian-Russian nuclear treaty, and whether the Orbán government has a scenario, even if it is not the market price explosion that you are hoping for, but the radical price reduction in international projections that will occur. What will they do in the period of 5 HUF electricity with the Paks blocks that generate loss at 27 HUF? Thank you.
u2017-06-23-69	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Attila Aszodi, State Secretary, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You speak on energy issues a lot; I assume you read the news on this precisely. I have the analysis you referred to; I must tell you that this time you have not read it precisely. I think this analysis contains different statements than you based your question on. The fact is that the price of consumers of electricity depends not only on the producer price, but also on the network, the cost of network maintenance, the cost of regulating power plants and regulating the system, and electricity must eventually reach consumers. These are all separate cost elements. You took the cost element of electricity production from this and tried to conclude on end-user prices, which in this form is not an appropriate model. You also failed to mention from this study that this study indeed expects electricity demand to increase by 2 percent per year by 2040; you regularly talk about how you think electricity demand will decrease. The study you referred to speaks of an increase in electricity demand. He also failed to mention that the study does not address climate protection objectives, while renewable energy sources and nuclear energy are needed precisely to meet climate protection objectives both in Hungary and in Europe and worldwide. You should know that this has been mentioned in this House many times, because the European Commission has examined the economy of the Paks II project for a year and a half. The result of the one-and-a-half-year investigation was that the project would be profitable, taking into account the cost of production and taking into account the expected development of electricity prices on the market. So it is not just us, but also the European Commission, who says that Paks II is a member of the Paks II group. The project is worth implementing, since it will provide electricity cheaply, contribute to meeting the domestic security of supply objectives and help us achieve climate protection. You have referred to current market prices, I must say, not precisely, in this case either. If you look at the HUPX website, you can see that in the last few weeks, the main power plant in Hungary has been sold around 50 euros per megawatt hour, while the peak electricity has reached the market around 60 euros per megawatt hour. In this range of 50-60 euros per megawattor, Paks II will be located. the cost of production, i.e. already market wholesale prices are in the range of Paks II. It'll cost you. You referred to gas plants. I have to tell you that if you look at, say, one of the most modern power plants in Hungary and at European level, the gas power plant in Gönyű, then in 2016 this power plant operated for 6 thousand hours out of 8760 hours of the year, so this domestic source was also needed in addition to nuclear power. I stress that the nuclear power plant is, both today and in the future, a token of cheap electricity supply, which will help us, and once again, to meet the security of supply objectives and climate protection objectives. I very much hope that you will support this project in the future, which is also necessary for you to have continuous access to electricity day and night, in winter and summer, which is today an essential public service. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-23-70	Thank you very much for your attention. [[13.40]]
u2017-06-23-71	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congresswoman if she will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor. No, I do not accept the Secretary of State's reply. Mr State Secretary, if everything were as you have outlined, I think that you would very calmly allow the Hungarian people to vote on whether they want a Paks enlargement or not. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] You should know very well that Paks enlargement is bleeding from multiple wounds. One: yes, he's bleeding very seriously from a financial point of view. Of course, it can be said that Paks nuclear power is cheap, that if they do not account for the costs of setting up, if they do not add to the price what it will cost to place high-activity waste, how many hundreds of billion forints, and for which it is not known, it will take thousands of years to decompose. So it is not only a financial issue but also a moral issue, and it is also very important that it raises dependence on Russia. All of this is simply unacceptable. Don't be afraid, yes, let's take it to the people and make it a referendum, and then people will decide. [[Rumors from the Fidesz ranks.]] If they want to live with it!
u2017-06-23-72	That's right. [[Vote.]] Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 9 abstentions.
u2017-06-23-73	Dear Parliament, János Bencsik, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. Is the competitiveness of our country improved? It's an address. Mr János Bencsik has the floor. Dear Secretary of State, The economic policy measures of the last seven years no doubt have had a positive impact, in 2013 Hungary was excluded from the excessive deficit procedure that had already taken place a decade ago, and, as a result, the general government deficit was fully achieved below 3 per cent of GDP, and the public debt-to-GDP ratio has been steadily declining.In 2016, all three major international credit rating agencies re-proposed sovereign Hungarian sovereign debt to invest in an investment category, thus Hungary regained its autonomy in the international financial environment. This enabled economic policy measures to help Hungarian people, families, businesses to thrive and the growth of the domestic economy. The Hungarian economy is now on a balanced and faster path to growth, and the central element of the challenges facing economic policy has been shifted to the labour market. Further strengthening requires a combined increase in productivity and competitiveness, accompanied by a gradual increase in wages. The government has also taken remarkable steps to this end. A significant reduction in the burden on businesses in the 6-year wage increase and contribution reduction agreement can have a beneficial effect on competitiveness, encourage investment in companies and enable higher labour force wages to be increased so that company profitability does not deteriorate in the meantime. The further strengthening of the economy depends on the development of the innovative capacity of businesses. Corporate innovation can be supported by the promotion of international R &amp; D cooperation, but there are still untapped opportunities in the area of tax policy. Digital development, the right training system, mobile labour force and the country's ability to attract large brands to Hungary can help boost innovation in Hungary, and even promote the creation of new domestic brands. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-23-74	Dear Secretary of State, I ask how much you think our country's competitiveness has improved; how much progress has been made in terms of productivity and innovation; and what steps do you consider necessary to further improve the country's competitiveness? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-06-23-75	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Balázs Rákossy responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The economic policy efforts of the period since 2010 have led the economy to a new, more balanced and dynamic growth path, and Hungary's competitiveness and the Hungarian economy are strengthening. It should be recalled that the civil government, which was founded in 2010, inherited a heavy burden from its socioliberal predecessor, a budget deficit exceeding 3 per cent, a booming government debt, families indebted to the extremes in foreign currency, unprecedented high unemployment, and a completely loss of growth and competitiveness momentum. With rapid and decisive measures, we have managed to restore the financial balance that has been shaken by economic policy failures in previous years, thereby creating the conditions for sustainable economic growth. At the same time, a number of longer-term steps have been taken to structurally transform the tax system, vocational training and public administration, with the aim of dynamicising the growth of the Hungarian economy, increasing the competitiveness and efficiency of the economy. The impact of the measures taken so far is not only reflected in the favourable development of financial equilibrium indicators, but also in the fact that the Hungarian economy has achieved growth of more than 4 percent in the first quarter of this year, thus the Hungarian national economy is growing twice as fast as the EU average. In addition, public deficits decreased, public debt decreased significantly, more than 7,000 over seven years. We have created a new job, reduced unemployment to record low levels and a significant surplus in the current account. [[13.50]] Building on the macroeconomic results so far, our catching up with the most advanced countries can and must be further accelerated by strengthening competitiveness, improving the quality conditions for economic growth. Successful economic catching-up must also involve an increase in income and living conditions, and this can only be achieved by continuously increasing productivity, improving the competitiveness and efficiency of Hungarian businesses and labour. I agree with the Member that one of the most important conditions for the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy is the availability of a competitive, qualified workforce. This is what the six-year wage agreement concluded at the end of last year allows for a more dynamic increase in wages without impairing the cost-competitiveness of the corporate sector, with the parallel reduction of tax and contribution burdens. Thanks to this, real earnings have been growing for 52 months, and gross average earnings in April have reached HUF 300,000 a month, which means an increase of nearly 15 percent in a year and allows businesses to employ a more qualified and competitive workforce. The reform of public administration, the reduction of bureaucracy, the simplification and cheaper use of official procedures are also intended to improve competitiveness. Last but not least, it should be stressed that a competitive economy is based on productivity, knowledge and innovation. Recognizing this, the government has decided to increase the volume of development aid for R &amp; D and innovation more than twice as much as so far. The thus available HUF 1200 billion will allow us to make significant progress in R &amp; D and innovation as well. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-23-76	Our industrial policy also focuses on promoting and supporting innovation, digital manufacturing technologies and logistics solutions. Thanks to all these measures, Hungary's competitiveness is improving, the Hungarian economy is strengthening, thus contributing to the significant improvement of Hungarian people's living conditions and the strengthening of our businesses. Thank you very much for your attention. Please accept my reply.
u2017-06-23-77	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In the last year, including this year and these months, you can see that in the industrial sector there has been a wage increase of between 30 and 40 percent. This was the extra profit, in fact, that investors have booked in recent years at the expense of employees. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-23-78	They saw that, in order to ensure the labour force, this extra profit should be waived, which will serve their survival and future competitiveness, as the best workers should be kept here. However, it is only possible to continue to achieve higher wages in the industrial sector if productivity is improved as a result of innovation, so it is very important to have a government position to double the envelope for innovation proposals in order to dynamicise the domestic economy. Thank you very much. I accept your answer. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply.
u2017-06-23-79	Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, Why are fertility centers closed when the population is falling? What family - friendly government does not allow the desired children to be born? ! It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Why, who prevented me?]] Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. I can finally ask my question in interpellation. Hungary's population continues to decline by 30-40 thousand people per year. For example, in 2016, 93,000 were born alive with nearly 127 thousand deaths. Behind the extremely high mortality rate lies the health system problems, the shortage of specialists, hospital infections. According to the latest figures, Hungary's population has decreased by 134 thousand in five years, corresponding to about the population of a large Hungarian city. The government is supposed to promise families grass trees for the sake of population polling, but it doesn't think about people who are sure to want children, but unfortunately, they don't have them for health reasons. Today, every fourth party in Hungary is directly concerned with the problem of infertility. This further undermines Hungary's negative population indicators. The government has been complaining for years about the low birth rate, yet it has not increased the funding of flask treatments. A few years ago, although Gábor Zombor, former State Secretary for Health, promised to double the support for fertility treatments, it ended up nothing. The recently announced family support proposals did not include any proposals on infertility. Now we're talking about shutting down a fertility center. It is important to know that 70 percent of the baby flask treatments paid by the social insurance company are now performed in the capital and rural offices of the private Kaal Institute. Today we owe this institution the birth of tens of thousands of children in Hungary. The fact is, the government is most likely seriously disturbed by the Kaal Institute. Over the past few weeks, Professor Kaali has made more serious statements through the press and has been critical of the government. The displacement of the Kaal Institute is presumably part of the government's efforts to increase the number of flask treatments that may be carried out annually at the health insurance fund in the future, but these would be carried out in a Budapest centre, the Semmelweis University Women's Clinic and the clinic in Pécs.
u2017-06-23-80	Mr. Secretary. Is the birth of the desired children really the way to start reducing the number of fertility centers? Do we really have to do this? You know very well, Mr Secretary, it usually takes nine months for a child to be born, but when we talk about infertility, we can talk about years and even decades. Is it really the solution to narrow down access to barren couples? I don't think so. Secretary of State, what are you planning? Tell me the truth about this. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-06-23-81	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, If you have not been able to deal with this subject here among the interpellations, you should complain to your group leader, not to make your comment on this matter public, I believe it is an internal party matter. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Oh, my God!]] However, it is important to see clearly the purpose of your speech. This was not about what you indicated in your title, but about the fact that as a lobbyist of a partly foreign-owned company, you tried to maintain the high level of participation of this partly foreign company and guarantee its profits. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: This is very low, Mr. Secretary of State.]] Otherwise, he wouldn't say false things. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Very low, Mr. Secretary of State.]] Otherwise, he wouldn't keep the obvious facts to himself. Otherwise, you wouldn't be giving false news here in Parliament even more publicity. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Very low, Mr. Secretary of State.]] As you know, honourable Member, anyone who hits the search engine on the Internet will find the statement by the University of Debrecen that he had a fixed-term contract with the Kaal Institute, which expires at the end of the year, and that is his plan. that from the beginning of next year, as he has been operating in his own infrastructure, he will continue to operate these treatments in this way, and even strive to take over those doctors, those colleagues, because of the trust relationship between patients and doctors, and he will be employed there as an employee of the university to continue helping barren couples. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Shame on you, Secretary of State. The president's ringing the bell.]] It also explains from the University of Debrecen that earlier the Kaal Institute used the sick roads, the auxiliary services that the University of Debrecen has provided and continues to provide at the University of Debrecen. So, honourable Member, nothing changes from the point of view of patients or those who need fertility treatment, as they will be given treatment at the same place, most likely they will receive it from the same doctors, likely to work with the same or even greater results, since they can work better together with other departments of university and medicine there, the only thing that will change is that their revenue will not migrate abroad. And you speak in Parliament And he is claiming all kinds of untruths in order to maintain this condition, honourable Member. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: After eight years, this is rather deplorable, Mr. Secretary of State.]] And you're talking about children you want here in Parliament. What was the government that took fertility and child birth numbers to a historic low point in Hungary? What was the government where we hit rock bottom? Your government, honourable Member. [[Anita Bering: Shame on you! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: This is very sad!]] Which government took a monthly child from every Hungarian family because it reduced its duration from three to two years? Your party. [[Zoltán Grimlock: And which taxed the minimum wage?]] Which government has withdrawn the regular child protection discount from the Hungarian families? It's exactly your government. Which government reduced family-type tax incentives after 2002? It's exactly your government. What was the government that took the interest rate subsidy from the family's forint loans to encourage them to lend foreign currency, and we saw how it turned out? It's exactly your government. Then why didn't you say, honourable Member, that there would be children in Hungary that families would take on? It's just that you've created an environment for all of this that many people have talked themselves out of having children. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Net lie!]] It is apparent that when a government such as our government comes after 2010, which greatly increases family support, in your last year it was under HUF 1000 billion, now nearly HUF 2000 billion in the 2018 budget, I would add that the latter was not supported by you when such a government comes, but then the desire to have children begins to rise, now it is born with thousands of children more than it was born in 2010. If you could see if that trend had continued, as in your time, with the falling number of children And now, when the number of children has finally started to rise and the population has decreased, if you look at the difference between the two, there are thousands of children now who were born, compared to those who probably couldn't have been born during the socialist government. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-23-82	In cash benefits and in other areas, this government created something that could increase the fertility rate by 20 percent. Thank you very much. [[14.00]]
u2017-06-23-83	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Now she has the opportunity to express her views. You have the floor. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We'll help him.]] You know, Mr. Secretary, I'm not a lobbyist, I'm a person involved. And, you know, I just wish you would never go through what a barren couple has been going through for years. And he wants his child to be born, Secretary of State. [[Uproar, noise, interrogations from the ranks of the age groups, including: Doctors to him! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] And, you know, I resent myself and those barren couples talking about this institution like that. You know what you're supposed to do? ! To get out of the bedroom of the Hungarian families [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: Style is man.]] and spend the money on Hungarian families and the birth of desired children that has been stolen in the last eight years. [[Noise, interrogations from the ranks of the governing parties, including Dr. Bence Rétvári: What have you done? The president's ringing the bell.]] And, Secretary of State, you should be ashamed of the way you talk about this subject in this Parliament. Everyone knows very well what Professor Kaali put on the table, and how many children owe this institution their birth. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell. Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-06-23-84	It's disgusting how they behave on this subject. I can't accept it, Mr. Secretary. [[Vote.]] Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply 102 yes, 19 votes not, without abstention.
u2017-06-23-85	Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. How long will the real cause and weight of emigration be denied? It's an address. By replying to the interpellation, Prime Minister Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary, he responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Congressman. Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, There are alarming reports of how many people would leave the country from week to week. Last time, a representative survey of Publicus published that 1.2 million people plan to work abroad in the future. It is a particularly high, nearly 40 percent among young people, which can lead to disaster if we do not act urgently and effectively, since we must not forget that we already have more than half a million of our countrymen abroad. Jobbik has been calling your attention for years to the fact that emigration is one of Hungary's most serious problems, which is particularly affecting young people. It is not possible to pursue ostrich policy here, it is not possible to bagate it, because it is the future of Hungary. What was your answer to that? The Prime Minister spoke of the fact that it is absolutely right to move young people abroad; he spoke of adventure, denying the real cause and weight of emigration. According to Lajos Kósa, it is impossible, and I quote, because of the terrible working and wage conditions and their lack of prospects, so many run away from the country, said your group leader. Dear Secretary of State, Well, then why are young people leaving? - I could ask you the question. Young people vote with their feet: most of them go abroad not out of adventure, but out of compulsion, because education and health are in ruins, everything is covered by unbridled corruption, my brother's world created by you, and humiliatingly low wages, housing and livelihoods are hopeless. The thing is, you're either lying without blinking your eyes, or you're living in a blur and you're not aware of it. None of these options are acceptable. It is clear from this survey that the increase in emigration is largely due to low salaries, the Fidesz government and the bad economic situation. That explains why they deny the weight of emigration and why they still talk about adventure. However, it also turns out that the professional challenge, experience, world vision, or even language learning are the primary reasons for some. Dear Secretary of State, These are facts. And the facts are stubborn. You've given up on emigrants, young people, and left them on the side of the road in particular. Come home, young man. The program was also stopped because it failed. The main problem is not that it wasn't successful, but that it was abandoned and nothing else was started instead, and since then nothing has been shown in order to stop and reverse the emigration trend or just to bring the people outside home. Moreover, Jobbik's proposal to amend the budget for this has been voted out. So you're not just doing anything, you're not letting others do something for you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-23-86	So I ask you, do you still think the mass exodus of young people is an adventure wish? How is it possible that our most serious national challenge is not dealt with? Why do they still deny the true cause and weight of emigration? I look forward to your substantive answer.
u2017-06-23-87	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds to the interpellation. You have the floor. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, I am sorry that the answers that you or you have received in this matter have not been understood precisely, because as you quoted these thoughts, you can see that you have not understood, you have not understood what the answers contained. We have already expressed the Government's position on the cross-border movement of people and the labour force on a number of occasions. With regard to what the Member has said, I also confirm that one of the achievements of belonging to the European Union is that, as citizens of other countries, Hungarians can participate in the free movement of persons and labour. However, it must be seen that this is not a one-way process, because while our fellow citizens are abroad for a longer or shorter period of time, driven by learning, earning income and other motivations, others are choosing our country to live in, as well as a return process among those who have left the country before, so there is also a return process among Hungarian people. There are many facts about this. It should also be remembered that, despite the constant alarm of the opposition, all serious international statistics show that Hungary is the smallest in the region. The proportion of Hungarians living abroad is two to three times higher than that of the citizens of the countries around us. Therefore, there is no one million Hungarian immigrants or an additional million immigrants. Anyone who says that does not know Hungarian relations and does not know Hungarian people. Furthermore, data on international migration currently available until 2015 indicate that the dynamics of entry and return flows into Hungary are greater than those of emigration from Hungary. By the way, the survey by András Pulai quoted by you, who received millions of mandates from the Gyurcsány government, is likely to serve political goals, and this also calls into question the issue of credibility in this study. Compared to those of two years ago, the number of emigrants and the number of people working abroad decreased significantly in the environment of those surveyed. This trend is confirmed by the latest statistics. According to KSH's labour force survey, for example, this year the number of Hungarians who are doing their home and living conditions abroad has decreased, typically with commuting work. The government's measures to increase employment and increase wages therefore have an impact not only on emigration but also on the return of those working abroad, which is already experienced. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And that this is the case, so government measures help to change opinions, to change opinions that might have aimed at a trial abroad or were about to aim at working abroad, I would like to say that, in recent times, employment has increased to the extent that government measures and the strengthening of the economy have affected precisely the direction that you have tried to present in your interpellation. 700,000 more people work at the beginning of 2017 than in 2010, and nearly 500,000 more of them work in the competition sector. Since 2010, real wages have increased by 24 percent in Hungary, and this should be added to the fact that, based on the first four months of data, real wages have increased by more than 9 percent in 2017, so if we add the two together, real wages have increased by over 30 percent in the past period in Hungary. Thus, wage catch-up has improved significantly. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I recommend to you, opposition representatives, that you refrain from discrediting young entrepreneurs who work abroad. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Let us honor them by viewing them as temporarily testing people abroad [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.10]]
u2017-06-23-88	who also help the Hungarian economy by transferring money.
u2017-06-23-89	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor. [[Noise from the benches of the governing parties. Interviews: He spoke about you!]] Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, If someone's blaming people living abroad, it's your group leader who said that the whole problem is stupid on the one hand, and the scale is stupid on the other. I think that's what you're describing, that you're looking at this problem and insulting all those who are abroad, your family members who are at home. And they suffer from the fact that their loved ones are away from them. So I think that if anyone should, then you should apologize for talking about Hungarians abroad in this way. [[István Szilárd Németh: Exactly!]] You questioned the credibility of this survey, saying that it must be manipulative data. I ask you, then, if you are thinking about the same survey, which showed that about 35 percent of young people are thinking about working abroad and living abroad, then you also question that. Because the New Generation Center, financed by you, has funded this research, and has produced the same result. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-06-23-90	It is regrettable that you are still debating the fact of this phenomenon, rather than talking about how to bring these young people home and keep them at home. I think you should think about how you stand on this problem, because, I trust, it would start you in the direction of doing something for these people together. Thank you very much. [[Vote.]] Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 18 votes against and no abstentions.
u2017-06-23-91	Dear Parliament, Péter Harrach and László Földi, representatives of KDNP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture: It's an address. It is for Congressman László Földi to take the floor. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Minister, The agricultural economy, as it has done in the past centuries, is now and in the future a decisive economic and social weight in Hungary. Thanks to the moderate climate, the high quality agricultural land, the knowledge and diligence of Hungarian farmers, our country traditionally exports significant quantities of agricultural products and food to consumers from other countries. Therefore, the presence of the agricultural economy in the domestic and international market is of strategic importance. According to experts, Hungarian agriculture has a higher production potential than it is now, which can create a significant potential for development, thereby strengthening the Hungarian economy, generating additional revenue, creating new jobs. Exports of agricultural products have also increased in recent years in changing international agricultural conditions. On agriculture, positive developments started in Hungary after 2010 and agricultural emissions have increased by more than 50 percent over the last six years at current prices. For example, the result of this positive process is that last year's economic growth has once again played a prominent role in agriculture. This is what we hope will happen again this year. For example, next year, more than HUF 800 billion of agricultural and rural development funding is planned to come from domestic and European sources to the agricultural economy. Dear Minister, Last year in the agricultural sector, Hungarian agricultural exports were worth more than EUR 8 billion. The growing food economy provides more and more people with livelihoods, which has increased by 55 percent since 2010 and has created more than 50 thousand new jobs in agriculture. Hungarian agricultural exports are balanced in several countries, of course our most important partners are the EU Member States. The basic objectives of the agricultural economy are clear: safe food supply, the maintenance of GMO exemptions, the preservation of our natural values, the preservation of biodiversity and prudent management. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-06-23-92	Hungarian food exports are of particular importance for our agriculture and our country's economy. That is why we can say that food exports offer us further opportunities, which we also need to achieve in international markets. That is why I am asking Minister, to what extent agricultural exports have increased thanks to the development of recent years, how exports of highly processed agricultural products have changed since 2010. I look forward to your reply, Minister.
u2017-06-23-93	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Minister Sándor Fazekas responds to the interpellation. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to thank the Member for pointing out that in Hungarian agriculture producers, food processors, have achieved significant performances in recent years, despite all market difficulties. Dear Parliament, We are working on the basis of the Dányi Ignác plan, in agriculture, in the food economy, this is the programme that we are implementing and we are making its objectives come true. This is also due to the fact that a number of positive processes have started in recent years, and we can say that agriculture has once again played a decisive role in economic growth in 2016 and many previous years. Agriculture emissions are rising in current prices for six years, reaching record values every year, exceeding HUF 2600 billion in 2016. In addition, in 2016 there was the fourth summer harvest with positive results, after 2014, the autumn harvest was outstanding in 2016, it was able to stabilize livestock production, significantly increase employment and exports, as well as the efficiency and profitability of agricultural production. There are also positive changes in the food industry, with total sales in 2016 exceeding HUF 2800 billion, which is 16 percent higher at unchanged prices than in 2010. In addition, investments in the food industry have increased dynamically. So we can say that the food industry is beyond the crisis. Exports of agricultural products increased significantly between 2010 and 16 years. This is also a good opportunity for Hungarian producers, and we can say that agricultural exports in 2016 are 38 percent more than in 2010. This resulted in the decisive role of the agricultural economy in the external trade of the national economy, where the share of agricultural products in total exports was 9 per cent, while the balance was around 30 per cent in 2016. The structure of agricultural exports has improved positively. The value of exports of highly processed products increased every year between 2010 and 2016, resulting in a significant increase in the share of total agricultural exports. The exports of highly processed products amounted to EUR 3.1 billion in 2016, two thirds exceeded the value of six years earlier, and their share of agricultural exports was 39 percent. This is positive both in terms of domestic added value and employment, and the growth of the manufacturing industry is also a predictable market for farmers. We are still working on exporting as many finished products as possible and as few raw materials as possible. In view of this, the government has significantly increased agricultural subsidies and we pay particular attention to sectors producing higher added value, and we encourage the development of agriculture and the food industry through investment grants. Dear Parliament, We are also aware that the Hungarian production potential is far from being exploited. The food-economic concept adopted recently by the government and adopted by the government until 2050 outlines a detailed programme, a reliable vision, in order to continue the development of the Hungarian food economy in the long term. We are convinced that we need a predictable, secure background for farmers and food processors alike, and that this requires quality Hungarian production, protection of rights for products, the development of hungaricums and premium products. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-06-23-94	Thank you very much for your attention, and I ask for my answer to be accepted.
u2017-06-23-95	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Minister's answer. You have the floor. [[14.20]] Thank you for the Minister's reply. I also submitted this interpellation because the region where I come from is mainly agricultural and agricultural. Arable crops, but also grape and fruit production, are of great importance. I therefore consider it particularly important that more and more small plants, small processing plants, are being built in our area, which does not process the crops of hundreds of thousands of hectares, but that they are able to market crops in the area and, for example, fruit juices in a good quality. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-23-96	However, I consider it equally important that there has been a very low rate of pig farming in our territory, and in recent years, pig farming has become increasingly muscular and has gotten better on its feet, and they can help quite a lot of farmers by processing there. So I am very confident, as a countryman, that agriculture did have a future and will have an even better future in the coming decades. Thank you, Minister, for your reply and I accept it. Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, It's 2:20 p.m., and we've reached the end of the interpellation trial. We're going to talk about immediate questions. I would like to ask my fellow Members, who wish to leave the Chamber in order to carry out an urgent public task, to do so quietly and within as short a time as possible. Thank you for your understanding and for those we no longer meet, we wish you a pleasant summer and a good rest.
u2017-06-23-97	Dear Parliament, Zoltán Gőgös, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. After a very significant part of the country has been hit by the ice, will they finally pay the farmers the subsidies? It's an address. Minister Nándor Csepreghy has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Minister for his answer personally.
u2017-06-23-98	I accept, Mr. President.
u2017-06-23-99	Congressman, you have the floor. Dear Secretary of State, On the evening of June 14th, I received a message from a producer saying that I am listening to Mr. Nándor Csepreghy, that he thinks the agricultural subsidies are all right. He doesn't think you know that. The problem is that I still didn't get two areas after the foresting and the support going back three years. Who do I believe now, me or Mr. Csepreghy? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr Secretary, the truth is that 30 June is a deadline for grants that everyone has generally managed to meet. This is the time limit for direct aids to be referred to. Obviously, there are some in the single application that are not part of direct support, but nevertheless, the government tends to assume that the aid involved in the single application will be paid by 30 June. The situation is now that, for example, they received a letter concerning restructuring aid for milk producers that their eligibility checks had been completed, and after one year the Treasury was able to write such a letter. This means that they have reached the point where it is likely that they have legitimately submitted a claim for aid and that the actual content will then be processed. So I'm pretty sure there won't be a payoff this summer. On Tuesday evening, there was a huge hail in the country involving many producers, especially in the Kecskemét area, a nut-sized ice, even greenhouses were crushed by the hail.
u2017-06-23-100	I say, Secretary of State, that we should find a way to do that, after this is due to compensations next spring, that at least those affected who have done so now that they have suffered damage should benefit from some technique in this payment system, which would now be greatly needed because they are in double grip. Obviously, I'll tell you more in a minute, but I'm asking you to take this seriously, because it's a huge problem if normal support doesn't arrive and they've been hit by hail.
u2017-06-23-101	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Here you go, Secretary of State. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to start from behind. Through four measures, the Hungarian Government will try to mitigate, improve and test the situation of farmers suffering ice damage through development policy tools in order to prevent ice damage. With regard to the payments, you know that there was a very serious institutional reform of the government, it was not by accident that you attacked the MVH for a very long time, and the MVH, which you classified as ÁVH, was essentially abolished by the government, and the paying agency functions were installed in one organization, the Hungarian Treasury. Here, instead of accusations, figures: between 16 October 2016 and 8 June 2017, HUF 384 billion was paid, which is 22 billion more than the previous MVH system was able to do. I can promise you, too, to the congressman and to the owner who wrote you the text, as I have seen many times in the past, that I have looked at the materials you have given me, and I will be able to give you a specific answer on Monday about the situation and the key to the solution in this particular case. Generally, we see that the rate of payment did not decrease after the termination of the MVH, after the installation of the Hungarian State Treasury. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-23-102	I don't want to rule out the possibility that there are such individual cases. Allow me to offer you a specific answer to the payment by next Monday, given the specific number of this case.
u2017-06-23-103	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. In return, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Gőgös. I've only read this message, Mr. Secretary, but obviously I will give it to you, and you have this e-mail, as I understand it, because you also wrote to me that you have an e-mail sent to you by this forest farmer. The problem with this is that one thing you didn't add now is how much of this payment was the advance that the old MVH made, because it was a very big amount of luck, because then it would be even worse. However, I continue to ask that there is this situation, this huge elemental damage. At least try to compare the two systems after assessing who they are.
u2017-06-23-104	I know that this is not easy, but since those who have suffered ice damage before January can certainly not expect any compensation, at least let their other stipend arrive, otherwise they will face a huge problem. There is already a big problem, because there is still a lot of money missing, but the players in the double squeeze could help as much as this system can. I'm afraid not, but prove to me that you can.
u2017-06-23-105	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2017-06-23-106	Honourable Congressman, I think we should look at the functionality of a system not from historical data, but from current numbers. The weekly payment number, which the Hungarian State Treasury can pay to farmers, amounts to HUF 21 billion on a weekly basis, i.e. it can flow out resources in the order of HUF 100 billion in five weeks. I would also like to draw your attention here to the fact that, although this is less comforting for farmers who have suffered damage now, it is certainly a step forward for the future to launch by mid-2018 a programme of de-icing through the government's soil generator device system, which, I believe, will in any case resolve this issue later. Once again, I would like to confirm that I would like the numbers nicely, and I will give a concrete answer to the Member for Monday.
u2017-06-23-107	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "Why do you govern against the will of the people?" It's an address. Prime Minister Mihály Varga has appointed Minister for National Economy to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2017-06-23-108	Thank you, Mr. President, but I'll wait for Prime Minister. I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. [[Dr. László György Lukács: I accept.]] Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Brusali, Fyresdal, Espevar, Leirvik, Tyssedal. It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2017-06-23-109	Congressman, you have the floor. [[14.30]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Not only is it very difficult for you to say those words, but it must be difficult to say those words to the nurses who went to work at the IKEA at Jahn Ferenc Hospital in South Pest, as these are the names of certain products of IKEA. As the historical loyalty shows, and what happened, it can be said: for the first time it turned out that at Jahn Ferenc Hospital in South Pest, in the 3rd medical ward, a whole department had to shut down on the news because the nurses working there went to the nearby furniture store, by the way, to IKEA, which is now opening up, and they took a job there. Then the institution came up with a highly camouflaged defense, and while they were busy developing Chewbacca protection, you insisted to the Chinese delegation that we were in world-class health care. Well, between the two, between the facts that the workers are going to IKEA, because they have a better salary and a world-class healthcare system, there is a screaming difference. However, it is no wonder that these workers went to work in IKEA, because in this place they can work much less, much better working conditions, perhaps less responsibility, 30-40 percent extra. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] And we can say that in this case they should stand next to these unspeakable beds, but in fact they should stand by the sickbeds. So, overall, we're there, and you see, the truth is, you guys have been doing health care where the shop salesman is making more money than the nurse working in health care after many years of invested education, after many years of hard work. By the way, they may be right that they are truly unique, unique in the world, what they have done in health care, because few countries can say that they have stayed in the sector at all for so little salary. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-23-110	But if there's a question to be asked at the end of the immediate question, when can a life-saving nurse make more money than an aldis, a Ikeas, or a lydel salesman? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-06-23-111	Thank you very much. I salute my fellow Members and give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I see that there is complete consistency between Lajos Simicska's party and Lajos Simicska's media, as they are telling the same false news here in Parliament, which they are, of course, telling in their own media. Let's see what's real, as opposed to what the congressman said. The hospital has been renovated several times over the past period, and there are still many. The surgical department, a clinic, gastroenterology and cardiology clinic have been renewed. During the summer, three departments will be renewed: Neurology, Cardiology, and III. internal medicine. The photos of the renovation are also on the hospital's website, everyone can look at them. You have two kinds of problems with the hospital: one, if there is no renovation, because you say there is no money; if there is a renovation, you say why there is no patient care in the rooms where there is a renovation. Honourable Congressman, Of the 1249 beds of the South-Pest Hospital, the renovation and upgrading affect 42 beds, i.e. 4 percent of the beds are affected. We've managed to produce news that there aren't enough nurses, and that's why they're closing classes in the hospital. Mr. Congressman, look at it for yourself, stamp it in, go up to the hospital's website, as I went up, and look at the photo albums that are exactly about renovation, and then you can see that there is no basis for any news you have talked about; and the hospital manager has also said that the fluctuations, recruitment and removal of employees are taking place at exactly the same rate as before. [[Tibor Bana intervenes.]] But you must serve the needs of Lajos Simicska, clearly the same system for months: the Hungarian Nation will bring something up in the morning The Index will keep the news going, and the NewsTV will do a report on it, and Jobbik will tell us about it in Parliament. A system, a client, paid from one place. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] In the meantime, we try to increase the wages of nurses every year, by 27 percent in 2012-13. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-23-112	26 percent last year, 12 percent this year, 8 percent next year, and 8 percent after that. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-23-113	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr László György Lukács is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Fake story?! All the renovations?!]] Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, it's been proven that renovation is a false story. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] What you've come up with to cover up the scandal behind this whole thing. The fake story isn't true either, because you're defending yourself that the reason why we need the renovation is because the patients are on vacation. How lifelike is it that patients go on vacation? When some department or department is shut down, it is moved to another room or another department, and they continue to work there. But in order to find the reasons why they could go to Ikea, the reason these workers could go to Ikea was because while they were working, you were stealing while they were standing next to the sick beds, you were taking the money to the Mészáros Lárincs and you spent the resources you were supposed to spend in health care. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-23-114	And to give you a piece of advice: if a delegation arrives and you want to confront them with reality, I suggest you visit Ikea in Soroksár together, perhaps you will meet medical staff there, because this department of the Jahn Francis Hospital in South Pest will most likely no longer meet in the future. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-23-115	Thank you, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Secretary of State. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, It's hard to prescribe medicine for blindness. Go upstairs. I went to the website, looked at the photos. You'll go up there and see it. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] But allow me to agree to one or two tongue-breakers. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Gravad Lax, filmmaker: Stockholm, Gothenburg, Lapland: LOCK HERE? For our partner in Sweden, we are looking for qualified specialists with a minimum of 3-5 years of experience in all fields of expertise. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. László György Lukács: I never took any money out of it!]] I read this on Premiumdoctors.hu; you know, honourable Member, this is the team you were part of, from which you took money [[Mihály Varga: Shame! Shame!]] and which dealt with the fact that it was taking Hungarian health workers all the way to Sweden. And then you'll stand up and make false accusations about whether or not you're going to work anywhere else from this hospital. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] This hospital is renovated. In Hungary, there is a health wage increase that you have not seen for example since the change of regime. And you didn't care about treating patients, because that's not your education, but your entire company, to take doctors abroad - and then stand up here. It's very crooked! [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You will fail in this! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-23-116	Lajos Simicska, I hope you pay a lot for it. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: They looked down on everyone! Dr. Bence of Rétvári: This sucks! Dániel Z. Carpathian: Why do you have to look down on everyone? Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of "May Other" Politics, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "Do you manage the thousands of billions of public money for money?" It's an address.
u2017-06-23-117	The Minister appointed Mr Nándor Csepreghy as State Secretary for his reply in response to an urgent public mission. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2017-06-23-118	Yeah. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear... [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Sorry!]] Congresswoman says yes. Then I'll give you the floor.
u2017-06-23-119	to the congresswoman. I'm sorry. Well, thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, On 17 July, the trade unions of the Hungarian Public Officials, Civil Service Workers' Union and the Hungarian State Treasury announced a two-hour strike if the government had not taken action to raise wages for employees in the central administration. They want the government to raise their salary by 25 percent this year and increase their wages by 50 percent in three years under a multi-annual wage agreement. Mr State Secretary, the demands are entirely legitimate, since public sector wages have been frozen by the government for the ninth year. Almost 200,000 workers have not changed their wages since 2008 and are already facing daily livelihood problems. The employees of the Hungarian Treasury are in a particularly bad situation, and fewer and fewer people are doing more and more work, and in the future all payments, whether social benefits, pension payments or EU subsidies, will be referred to here. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Work day? He said we took a day off from them! Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: We've taken away the working day on July 1st.]] Minister Lazarus did not break his first promise by delaying the wage increase for the central bodies by another year, not for the first time or for the last time, the public workers have been deceived, and recently the working day on 1 July has been taken away from them. And now Minister Lazarus responded in a threatening style to announce the strike when he said that there would be neither a strike nor a wage increase; it is not permissible to play with the state's financial system. It is true that no one can play with this, especially not the government, which is what the government has been doing, since it has kept wages low for years.
u2017-06-23-120	I am asking, Mr Secretary, whether the government will grant the wage increase requested or who will take responsibility if there are any problems referring to wages or pensions.
u2017-06-23-121	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and He already expressed his own rebuttal in his question, since he began by saying that there would be no increase in wages, then he said that this was pushed by the government for a year; so we are not essentially arguing whether there will be or not, but we are talking about when it will be. You know, this government is distinguished by many things from the governors before 2010, especially by the fact that it only develops wages in the public administration sector, in the public sector, among employees of public companies if it has an economic basis. And from what would we have created wage development in education, health care, social services, government windows, people working in district offices, employees in government offices, if there were no economic growth? We said and promised that everyone could take a step forward depending on the country's capacity to perform, and that we first touched the wages of government employees who made unfairly little money compared to the fact that they did most of the work involving customer contact. Thus, in the case of secondary graduates, more than 50 per cent wage increases were made in these offices, 30 per cent wage increases in higher education graduates and, overall, a 40 per cent wage increase in administration. You know, you can imagine a lot of things about LMP, but since you haven't governed yet, there's nothing we can do but touch your program when we look at what you would do in this sphere, and it turns out that all you would do is raise taxes, because the multi-key personal income tax you're announcing doesn't mean anything but a tax increase. On the other hand, this government has implemented wage development in the public sector and has introduced measures that have given the public sector the opportunity to make progress in all areas. Treasury employees are equally affected by tax cuts, treasury employees are equally affected by the lack of inflation, and treasury employees are equally affected by family home-building support. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.40]]
u2017-06-23-122	We believe that the country's capacity determines when who can move forward and put out the fire where the house burned the most. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-23-123	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Erzsébet Schmuck has the opportunity to respond in return. Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you should be a little more aware of the LMP's programmes. We have talked many times about progressive income tax. Yes, it would be very important for higher incomes to pay higher taxes, and for those with low salaries, those with small keys and the minimum wage to be tax-free.
u2017-06-23-124	If I didn't open the Index today, I might not feel as annoyed as I do now: 200,000 employees have around 100,000 net salaries. I suggest you read the Index article. There are leaders who earn HUF 7.5 million a month, pay HUF 5 million, with a premium and many others, and also have a seat in various committees at seven or eight workplaces. How is that acceptable? If you do not see that the gap must be drawn together, then what will happen to the country? The unions were absolutely right to declare a strike.
u2017-06-23-125	Thank you, Congresswoman. I'll give the floor to the Secretary of State for a moment. Thank you, Mr. President. The truth among opposition parties is surprising. The fact that you have acknowledged the intention of your tax-raising policy, thank you once again, I think that TV viewers have been able to follow this.
u2017-06-23-126	In a year, wages have increased by 12% in Hungary, which also affects treasury employees. But, of course, the government does not want to sweep this issue under the rug, which is why, among other things, we are asking for the mandate of voters in 2018. However, in connection with the Treasury, I would like to say that there are a number of tasks, other than wages, which are additional to the staff of the Treasury, which the Hungarian government pays them in any case. In order to speed up the payment of the EU programmes 2007-13, the 2014-20 programmes, an additional task has been assigned to them, and in return, 618 million HUF 218 thousand has been paid to Treasury employees outside the wage, just as they have received some 197 million HUF 218 thousand from the Ministry of Economy for additional tasks related to the promotion of sovereign debt, the provision of KIRA tasks and IT developments. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-23-127	Thank you, Secretary of State Csepreghy. Dear Parliament, Jenő Manninger, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility for the further frauds of the left-wing lawyer? It's an address. Congressman Manninger Jenő has the floor. Dear Minister, Dear House, The name of Csaba Czeglédy, the left-wing trust lawyer, may be familiar not only in the region but also nationally, as his name became known a decade ago in connection with the series of fraud linked to the school cooperatives. László Botka and Ferenc Gyurcsány's lawyer were sentenced to permanent imprisonment in 2002. Now the same crimes are suspected. The two former leaders of the Copernicus School Co-operative were accused of criminal fraud committed in a commercial manner in the prosecution's indictment at the end of June 2015 and of a breach of the accounting system. Earlier proceedings were initiated for a significant tax debt in several co-operatives, also linked to Csaba Czeglédy, Cooperitas, the Rébusz School Association and the Studentka Work School Association, which, leaving a significant tax debt, have ceased. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-23-128	Czeglédy is suspected to have harmed the state by HUF 3.3 billion and cut thousands of students. In addition to MSZP, Csaba Czeglédy is also in contact with DK, as in Szombathely the man works as the group leader of the United Left of the Szombathely municipality, not only doing political but also legal work. So my question is, what do you think, how do you see why the United Left, MSZP and DK stood alongside such a lawyer both on Saturday and nationwide. Thank you.
u2017-06-23-129	Thank you, Congressman Manninger. I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for asking. Allow me to reply to this: under the Labour Control Act, the labour authority is entitled to examine, inter alia, the performance of the salary payment and to allow the employer to comply with this obligation within the deadline. If the authority reveals the fact that the payment is not paid, it requires the employer to pay the unpaid remuneration by setting a short deadline, as the aim is not to impose sanctions, but to pay the workers their wages. In the event of failure of the call, the employer is already required to impose a labour fine. Following press reports on abuse, labour professional management drew the attention of the regional labour authorities to the fact that, in the primary context of the school cooperatives concerned and of the available capacity, other student associations should carry out ex officio checks to detect irregularities and to remedy the violation of the law. Of course, the efficiency of the authority's procedure will be increased if students who are in breach of the law report irregularities themselves at the control of the metropolitan and county government offices, in the district offices of the county seat. I would also ask them to do so in any event, their legal representatives, if the student does not wish to do so himself, to take this opportunity. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Honourable Congressman, Under the National Employment Fund's Wage Guarantee Fund, the insurmountable wage debt of entities in liquidation proceedings vis-à-vis employees can be advanced. If the liquidator cannot satisfy the salary due to employees of the entity in liquidation proceedings on the pay day, he shall immediately submit a request to the competent government office and the procedure shall start. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-23-130	Please accept my reply. Thank you.
u2017-06-23-131	Thank you, Minister Varga. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Dear Minister, Thank you for your information. Indeed, the most important question will be how, in such a procedure, students' wages will be paid, who will pay the damage to the state. Of course, what is the opinion of the Saturday people is quite clear, as they have done - recently published - a poll of 18 thousand people among the Saturdays. Based on this, 87 percent know about the case, 74 percent think that the lawyer should resign, despite which MSZP and DK stood nationwide. Looks like this is where the left is really united.
u2017-06-23-132	The question therefore continues to be what procedures and how it will be possible to pay, despite the fact that the State is obviously trying to make good the damage, but how to pay the students' wages and, of course, who will pay the damage to the State. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-23-133	Thank you, Congressman. The rejoinder is also due to the Minister. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Roland Mengyi, György Simonka, Flórian Farkas.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, the left has recurring traditions, one of which is a tradition of abuse of the situation of workers, whether it is a student or even an employee. Congresswoman, you can yell at me, but that's the way it is. So what I can say is that if the winding-up procedure starts, then there is a legitimate possibility that the Wage Guarantee Fund will fund this loss of wages. If the winding-up procedure does not begin, unfortunately this procedure cannot start and start. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] I would like to emphasise that in any case - [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: When did you apologize for Flórian Farkas?]] even if the congresswoman did not shout so loudly - that the left should assume moral and legal responsibility for what his representative has done. I find it outrageous that, since the procedure started, there has been no reaction to at least apologizing to students. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-23-134	for the abuse that your representative, the representative of the MSZP, has committed. Thank you for your attention. [[László Teleki: Yes.]] Thank you, Minister Varga. Dear Parliament, László Teleki, a representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what does Flórián Farkas know about Fidesz? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Mihály Varga as Minister of National Economy to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2017-06-23-135	Congressman Teleki says yes. You have the floor, Congressman. [[14.50]] Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, I'm glad to be able to relate to what you said earlier, where the moral responsibility of Fidesz is when Wolf Florian is protected. I would like to mention that there was a scandal in the National Roma Municipality when he presided over the National Roma Municipality; you did nothing. There was a scandal about spending money; Zoltán Balog asked for this source back, but you did nothing on the part of the government. It was a scandal when Fidesz and Lungo Drom worked together, because Flórian Farkas had no authority from Lungo Drom's membership to conclude the cooperation. What have you done to ensure that this does not happen? It's a scandal, by the way, the renovation that happened last week. Florian Farkas was elected by simply refusing to allow members who disagreed with his policy to be remodeled. You don't say anything. Where's the moral responsibility, I'll ask you. Why do they want to further undermine Gypsyism in Hungary through Florion Farkas? Why don't you stop the madness that Flora Farkas is doing to assist you? The money that has disappeared - HUF 1.6 billion - you, who is in charge of finance, the economy in this government, do not ask Mr. Florionon Farkas and even Viktor Orbán to account for the fact that it is not possible to protect a person if it is apparent that their own minister has asked for HUF 1.6 billion back... - that public money cannot be stolen. And you won't say a word. The legality that is at the moment is being investigated on more than one thread, and there are no results, so it is being pulled like a strudel; when the investigation that has begun is being concluded, no one knows. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Therefore, Minister, what is your responsibility: to continue to undermine Gypsyism in Hungary through Florion Farkas? Because if we leave any part of Hungary today, they will ask me and others what they are doing, why you are protecting Florian Farkas, and they will ask me this question.
u2017-06-23-136	Mr. Secretary. I'd like you to take care of it, please. Thank you.
u2017-06-23-137	Thank you, Congressman Teleki. I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for asking. An autopsy of moral responsibility is a long way off. Don't forget that the socialist governments prior to 2010 did nothing to catch up with the people in need. The government was handed over at the time with nearly half a million unemployed in the country; the situation of the Gypsy community in Hungary was simply hopeless. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] The Orbán government has tried to ensure that social inclusion takes place, so we have reached an agreement with the National Roma Municipality. [[Intruder from the ranks of the MSZP: felony!]] Indeed, as you have said, the Bridge to the World of Work, I can confirm that it has gone into an irregularity. , the investigation revealed such an irregularity, which was the reason why the EMMI withdrew from the sponsorship contract, and the project paid HUF 1.6 billion of Hungarian funding, according to the agreement, will be repaid in instalments by the National Roma Municipality. So I would like to emphasise that if an irregularity is detected, then the damage must be reimbursed, and in this case it is the municipality who will reimburse this amount. At the end of 2016, we were able to provide a special debt settlement aid to the National Roma Municipality, which enabled the municipality to reimburse the previously received funds much more evenly. The amount of the current claim has been reduced to HUF 280 million, and the National Roma Municipality is constantly paying its debt up to the deadline, in HUF 7 million instalments per month. The remaining amount at the end of the maturity will be repaid by the municipality at the 12th month instalment. [[Dr. István Józsa: Where is the money?]] So I can tell you, Congressman. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Who will pay you back? It's not the Roma Municipality!]] that there has been an irregularity, this irregularity has been investigated, and the Roma Municipality will reimburse you, repay you for the money you had received for this programme. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-23-138	Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-06-23-139	Thank you, Minister. Mr Teleki is entitled to a rejoinder. Thank you very much. Flórian Farkas went into the pub, ordered, then left, and didn't pay. The national government will pay for what Flórian Farkas ordered. So that's okay, Minister? Is that okay? I think there's no way it's right for someone to order, someone to make a mistake, someone to break the law, and others to pay for it. So I think that you are not worthy of these few sentences, because you should be the first to take account of them, because you are an honest politician, and you should be the one to ask Florian Farkas how to proceed. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] By the way, to suggest what we did, I'm just saying what we did and what you didn't do. You have promised hundreds of thousands of jobs for the Roma, hundreds of thousands by Viktor Orbán himself and Flórian Farkas. Where is this job? In public employment, which would not be a problem, the only thing is that there is no way out of there, and you do nothing to prevent the Roma who work there from being yoked horses and cannot find any way out for them. That's one of them. The other: all charities where the Roma had the opportunity to spend money were abolished Exactly so you can't see what they're spending that money on.
u2017-06-23-140	Minister, restore the public foundations so that we can see the exception of funds for the Roma. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-06-23-141	Thank you, Congressman Teleki. The Minister shall also have a rejoinder. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. A statement from the opposition: But legally yes!]] Honourable Congressman, I could say that you are not worthy of this answer, because you know very well that you cannot interfere with the operation of a municipality with government power. The municipality makes its own decisions, which is also true of all municipalities, municipalities, capitals, counties and the functioning of minority self-governments. So I think that there must be a decision, and if the decision, its implementation or the use of money is irregular, then the institutions of the government must act. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: A lot of people have left the country!]] As far as public employment is concerned, allow me to say, after all, that you have handed over government with very significant and high unemployment, and now there is a shortage of labour in certain sectors. [[László Teleki: You have to ask them if it is true.]] It also contradicts itself, because in recent years 700 000 workers have been offered employment in Hungary, thus reducing unemployment. Please read the publications and data of the Statistical Office, and you will be enlightened in this regard, and you will find that the Hungarian Roma community has become a significant employee [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-23-142	in the last few years. Thank you very much. [[For signal:]] Thank you, Minister Varga. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Carpathian, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, who will protect the hundreds of thousands left on the side of the road? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Mihály Varga as Minister of National Economy to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2017-06-23-143	Mr Dániel Z. Kárpat indicates that he did. You have the floor, Congressman. Mr President, Dear House, The foreign exchange credit has been damaged, but I have to ask the question, not only on behalf of foreign exchange investors, but also in general on behalf of credit victims, which, in my view, cannot be a party political background, and it is in the fundamental interest of all political formations to resolve it. We are talking about our fellow countrymen under pressure, who are literally eliminated by tens of thousands of irregularities, which I believe are recognised by all political sides, as the current government has also tried to reach the area, although in a very truncated way, in a very inadequate way, but it is still typical to withdraw 33 percent of our countrymen's salaries and, where appropriate, their small pensions, in extreme cases, if several debts are stacked on each other. As regards irregularities, we also find that this happens very often without prior notification. I would like to stress that a large proportion of victims' income to be used to satisfy the basic resources necessary for the minimum of living is also a victim of everything, and we must say that in many cases, in parallel communication with the enforcer, the enforcer, we do not know for how long, what debt is covered by the whole process, nor do they receive any statement of the basis on which the victims are taking away their resources to meet basic livelihood needs. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We therefore see that when Jobbik submits an amendment proposal, and we have done so in the form of a bill, in order to ease the burden on the victims, we expect a clear answer from the government on whether these irregularities are detected or whether the partners in Jobbik's proposal are typically trying to maximize the percentage of earnings that can be taken away by 20%, and only in very extreme cases, in the case of solvency, it can go up to 33 percent. But as long as we see our fellow countrymen, [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-23-144	Its tens of thousands are made impossible in a similar way, and I see that the intervention is necessary and necessary immediately. I look forward to your substantive answer.
u2017-06-23-145	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga. [[15.00]] Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, First of all, I thank you for your suggestion because it gives me the opportunity to add some data to the problem you have raised. First of all, note that neither Fidesz nor Jobbik can be responsible for the fact that the construction of foreign exchange loans between 2004 and 2008. It was the then MSZP-SZDSZ governments that, in the weak situation of the economy, thought that if they could no longer give people any support, then the banks would give it and allow it to happen without almost any more serious control and information. Secondly, perhaps we can also agree together that Hungary is a rule of law, so basically we also have to act on the basis of existing, existing, existing laws governing foreign exchange loans, and if the court takes a decision, then that court decision must be followed up and enforced. The government has acted on this basis, we have made the necessary legislative amendments in recent years that have allowed people to be compensated on the one hand - I would like to say that 750 billion HUF has been credited to customers' accounts in recent years - there has been a significant reduction in their outstanding debt to debtors - we can talk about an average decrease of 25 per cent - and this has made the situation of debtors significantly easier. I should also add that for customers entering the exchange rate barrier, the period when the possibility of this collection account ceased to exist has now expired. Today, less than 15,000 of the 170,000 collection accounts remain. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-23-146	So I think that we have been able to significantly reduce the problem, we have been able to help to a significant extent, and, of course, to answer your question, we are ready to help those who still have this problem, even by amending legislation. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-23-147	Thank you, Minister. I give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian in return. Mr President, Dear House, Yes, there will be a need not only for legislative amendments, but also for a series of them, since the irregularities that led to and lead to institutionalised looting of the population continue to exist. Minister S, what we need to see is that if you had saved so much money by HUFing at the market rate, let us consider the magnitude of a thousand billion in value that we could have returned to the rightful owners, the injured, by HUFing at the rate of admission - what Jobbik is calling for - and we could still return it to the rightful owners, the injured, the only problem is that this current government has credited this amount to the bank accounts. What we see at this moment is that while even the banking sector's special tax is falling, the banks are making record profits, and the injured are on the side of the road. Unfortunately, this government is even afraid of billboards, let alone banking. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So, wishing you a little more courage, I'm certainly calling on the government to end the abuse of its executives. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-23-148	Let's stop this process. Jobbik has submitted its proposal for this. The question arises: when is the government willing to negotiate about this? Thank you for your attention.
u2017-06-23-149	Thank you. The Minister shall also have a rejoinder. Congressman, we are not afraid of the billboards, but we are afraid that you may be making decisions that are bad for the country by putting yourself in the pocket of a billionaire oligarch. So I would like to assure you that no one has done more than this government to save foreign exchange credentials. So let's be clear: in the case of exchange barriers, the limits laid down by law ensure that a customer with an ex-price barrier does not increase the repayment by more than 15 per cent. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-23-150	I am somewhat sorry, Mr President, that you have not mentioned in recent years what kind of decisions have been made by the Constitutional Court and the Curia, because then you would probably not raise the points you have been making for years. I think that we have managed to deal with this problem successfully, that we have been able to give samples to other countries - Poland, Croatia or Romania - how to free foreign exchange lenders from this circle, and I very much hope that the remaining 15,000 stocks that are left, we can successfully support and help them to get out of this trap. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy: I have to accept it.]] Thank you, Minister Varga. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy, representative of "May Other" Politics, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "Do the numbers lie? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2017-06-23-151	Thank you very much. Congressman Ákos Hadházy has the floor.
u2017-06-23-152	Thank you very much. There are three numbers that I believe need to be repeated a lot, and it should be repeated by the government members themselves: 1.5 times as many people die in Hungary in one year as in the 14 most advanced countries in Europe, 2.1 times more people die in preventable diseases, but even more serious, harsh numbers are that 2.5 times more people die in incurable diseases, in those that could have been cured. That is why, since 2010, the government should have dealt with health and touched health; it has not. It was only one reform, so to speak, when it took procurements, public procurements, procurements and centralised them from the municipalities. A rather shocking news of the past few days is that the State Health Service Center has been punished by the Hungarian Competition Authority for HUF 50 million because they wanted to buy breathing machines and monitors, but the public procurement has been announced - this is the most primitive fraud when a public procurement is issued - so that only one company can run on it, and the product of one company can be purchased. It is a very nice word - we have already heard here - when it is said that the theft of a billionaire Flórian Farkas is just an irregularity; they very much like that word, that it is only an irregularity, that the government likes to use it for theft and fraudulent treatment. It's probably just a little foul in a quote here too. Do you know - and I'm asking the questions - how much damage has been done to public health here? And have they filed a complaint here about the restriction of competition, because of the infidelity of treatment? Is there already responsible for this statement, regardless of the complaint, when, once again, a whole large public procurement is written out in a very primitive way, so that only one company can do so? Thank you.
u2017-06-23-153	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Of course, if you indicate in your next question which case you are curious about, you will, as in every other case, receive it now, honourable Member. He forgot to mention in relation to health in recent years how many hundred billion forints of health improvements have been made, that there is slowly no hospital in the countryside that we have not been able to renew in detail in recent years. 75 hospitals have been renovated, honourable Member, and 30 new rescue stations have been created, 97 rescue stations have been renovated, dozens of specialist clinics have been built, and dozens of clinics have been renovated to serve the health of people. We've managed to raise our GPs' money by 1.5 times the amount of money they can farm and care for the sick for months. We managed to renovate hospital buildings worth HUF 322 billion. We managed to buy hospital equipment worth more than HUF 110 billion. We managed to get the Hungarian economy back on its feet with enough tax revenue for the Hungarian budget so that next year's budget will contain HUF 221 billion more for health care than this year's. And this year, too, we managed to put together a HUF 171 billion more than the previous one. While the total amount of the Health Insurance Fund was below HUF 1500 billion in 2010, this is now above HUF 2000 billion. The rescue service budget was raised by HUF 17 billion, so the rescue service is no longer financed from HUF 22 billion, but from HUF 39 billion. I think these figures, these figures show that this government has finally managed to talk not only about visitation fees for health care, not only about hospital closures as before, but also about hospital renovation, free and better quality healthcare; and we have finally started raising wages, which is equally necessary in health care. These are important steps that he forgot to mention. Of course, he didn't support any of them with his vote. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-23-154	Thank you very much.
u2017-06-23-155	Thank you, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. I give the floor to Congressman Ákos Hadházy in return. Thank you very much. I was shocked by the Secretary of State's ignorance. I think if the state health care center received a penalty of HUF 50 million, then it would be good to know at least the scale of the money that was lost in the ministry. It's quite shocking that you didn't know. Clearly, we can see that there must have been some serious abuse. I did a CT scan earlier, and they bought the CTs for twice as much as they originally planned. If these purchases had been done in this way, it would not have been possible to renovate 75 hospitals, but to renovate double them; not 30 rescue stations could have been renovated, but 60 could have been renovated, and not 68 rescue stations could have been built or 30, but 60 could have been created, and not 68 could have been renovated, but doubled. [[15.10]]
u2017-06-23-156	In the same way: they wouldn't have bought the assets for 110 billion forints, but this 110 billion would have been worth only half, they would have bought double the assets if they hadn't stolen half of them. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-23-157	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Rétvári in return. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, And it's your hypocrisy that surprises me. Two hours ago, you had an opportunity to fight corruption. [[Dr. István Apáti's intervention.]] you would have had an opportunity to take action against illicit and black-party financing, and you are laughing at this situation; voters will not laugh. The electorate found out which parties had voted in favour of transparency. You are talking about transparency, and there would have been a rather important proposal where you could have supported transparency with your vote, so that the voters could see at what cost, how much you spend on posters, and you did not vote for it. You wanted this to stay not in the grey zone, but in the black zone, so that you could secretly support parties for the oligarchs, and then ask for the price. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-23-158	Honourable Congressman, A congressman's vote is the most talkative. Your vote was in favour of intransparency, and unfortunately, transparency was rejected today. After that, your different fakes, I think they're a little crooked. Thank you very much. [[For signal:]] Thank you, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, wants to ask the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What are you so proud of? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Csaba Dömötör State Secretary to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding.
u2017-06-23-159	Ildikó Bangóné Barbély says yes. You have the floor, Congresswoman. Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Since 2010, income inequalities have increased between the richest and the poorest, and the steady rise in income inequalities has put whole layers in a critical position. Among children, the proportion of people living in poverty or exclusion exceeded the national average by 8.1 percentage points. Single - parent families are particularly in a bad situation, with nearly two thirds, 62.3% of them living in poverty or social exclusion, and this extremely high rate has even increased by 6.3 percentage points compared to the previous year. The social policy of the government practically helps those who do not need it; this concept is unique in Europe. Since 2010, the government has taken a number of cruel measures against the poor by reducing and eliminating aid, and eventually even eliminating the minimum wage. The government has given up millions of people while spending taxpayers' money on unnecessary luxury investments, all it cares about is making it better for friends and relatives. This government will also have a historical responsibility to incite individual social groups against each other, as well as to oppress Hungarian society. It is a cliché, but it is true: if a country lacks commitment to eradicate child poverty, it affects not only children, but also society as a whole and our future.
u2017-06-23-160	Mr. Secretary. What are you so proud of? That they spent more than 4 billion forints on poster campaigns in a month? Do they proclaim Hungary strong and proud, while poverty in Hungary is immeasurable? And what I said was, what kind of condition are they in, like, single-parent families or the children themselves, that's what they're so proud of? Instead of the poster, we should spend the tens of billions of HUF on posters to help families! Mr. Secretary. What's important? Are you really so proud of that? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-06-23-161	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. You asked in your speech what we were proud of. For our part, we are proud primarily of Hungary, that thanks to the efforts of millions of Hungarians, the results are now visible, and this country is further ahead than in 2010. Just to mention a few results: 700,000 new jobs have been created, doubled in your time. We can also be proud of the fact that real wages have increased by 12% in Hungary, given the last year alone. This year, the minimum wage grew by 15 and 25 percent respectively, which means doubling for skilled workers compared to 2010. I would also like to make it clear to you that the child is the first for the civilian government, so that more than 300,000 children can eat free. It's a measure that you didn't even think about introducing. It is also a serious achievement, I think that 26,000 children can take vacations in the Erzsébet camps at Lake Balaton, and 50,000 can take vacations in camps not far from their homes. I could also mention the family tax relief, which you have never supported, even though it left over a thousand billion forints in families with children, and if I look at their statements, it is clear that you would eliminate this family tax relief. As regards child poverty, child poverty decreased by 6 percent between 2012 and 2015 and decreased significantly. If you look at the relevant data of the KSH, you will see this, and I ask you not to deny it. You asked me what we were proud of, and I would like to mention two more things. We are proud that 1.7 million people have participated in the national consultation, which is a record, and it proves that this country stands up for what is right when it comes to things affecting national independence. One more thing: we are also proud that soon one million people will be able to reach the number of double citizens. You can secretly be proud of that, especially if we know that you were campaigning against dual citizenship back in 2004. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-23-162	Thank you for listening.
u2017-06-23-163	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the right to a rejoinder. You know, Mr Secretary of State, some poverty figures: the proportion of people under 18 in the European Union is 21.1 per cent, we have 22.7 per cent; the proportion of people living in poverty or social exclusion in the whole population in the EU is 23.7 per cent, we have 28.2 per cent; the proportion of children under 18 in the EU is 26.9 per cent, in Hungary 36.1 per cent. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Mr. Secretary. There are priorities. In the last eight years, you have spent tens of billions of forints on an unnecessary poster campaign, while these resources - and I am not even talking about the resources that are unnecessary investments, see the water vb, which we are slowly losing track of how much it will cost, while talking about poverty figures.
u2017-06-23-164	Mr. Secretary. There are priorities, you should keep that in mind. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-06-23-165	Thank you, Congresswoman. The rejoinder also deserves the Secretary of State. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I don't know who the President of the Central Bank was! Jarai, Orbán!]] He used harsh words, let me make a few comments. However, on behalf of the MSZP, I would not be proud of the fact that the country has been freed from currency lending, which has put hundreds of thousands in debt traps. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: For the last eight years we have been talking about Fidesz!]] They've doubled unemployment. When you left the helm, half a million people checked in for aid in some form in Hungary, today this figure is less than 200,000. When you were steering, it was almost 40 percent of the key. It wasn't worth working for people who wanted to go from one to the other. Not to mention, the monstrous half-superbrutto even reduced the income received. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: What does Kósa have to do with Csaba Czeglédy? Make that clear what it has to do with him and the fraternity. The president's ringing the bell.]] By the way, if you are so interested in the fate of public funds, you should not be proud of the fact that a third of the metro money has been raised, or to mention a current issue: if you are interested in the fate of workers and the fate of young people, you should also clarify why Csaba Czeglédy, the head of MSZP, does not pay the students now. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Because Kósa wants to take over the entire market, that's all!]] and why it may have occurred that he did not pay public money to the state register for HUF 3 billion. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: You'd better clear this up for yourselves!]]
u2017-06-23-166	Let's hope you have time to clear this case this summer, because if you don't clear it, it proves that the MSZP hasn't changed at all. Thank you for listening. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. The taxpayers must pay the penalty for Fidesz so that Andy Vajna can feed his girlfriend with gold. It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Mihály Varga as Minister of National Economy to respond to an urgent public task. I ask Congressman György Szilágyi if he accepts the person of the response. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Just don't hit him at the end. Just don't hit him.]]
u2017-06-23-167	It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman. [[15.20]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, According to the judgment of the European Court of Justice, the domestic regulation of online casinos violates EU law and, therefore, it is likely that we will be severely punished. You know, this is the law, this is the regulation that was implemented when Prime Minister Andy Vajna had coffee with the Prime Minister's son-in-law on Kempinski's terrace, and then you introduced this law that was passed here, and we said that there would be problems with it. This is the law that almost exclusively favours Fidesz Andy Vajna, the Fidesz government commissioner, and the injured will be primarily the Hungarian budget, so the Hungarian people will be the ones. I would like to mention here that although the smallest domestic businesses are required to have an online cash register connected to the NAV, the suppliers and beneficiaries of this system are, of course, fidesz buddies, but Andy Vajna, as a modern-day gyervian judge, also enjoys an exception, the gambling business is the hotbed of the black and grey economy. Even in countries that are more fortunate than us, such as Zimbabwe and Mali, they are trying to control it as hard as possible. At home, however, Viktor Orbán's government commissioner who drives billions of dollars into Luxembourg offshore companies can do this industry without serious control. He makes a very good living with this, because since 2010 he has taken more than HUF 12 billion out of the country through an offshore company in Luxembourg; only in 2016 it will cost HUF 6 billion, which is exactly HUF 16.5 million a day, which is 11 500 a minute, so there is something to feed his girlfriend with gold, and there is something to live well with, and there is probably something to be done by Viktor Orbán with prohibited party funding from these billions and Fidest to try to keep his power, which will not succeed. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] How long are they gonna put up with this? Indeed, with taxpayers [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-23-168	Do you wish to pay for the mistake you made for Andy Vajna? Thank you very much.
u2017-06-23-169	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga. Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I would suggest to you that you not only find information from the better index, because then you will indeed run into a hole, as has been the case in this case, because yesterday the Court of Justice of the European Union ruled on a specific case, the online blocking of the online organizer Unibet International Ltd. in Hungary. So it was not a condemnation, but a fundamental principle decision was taken by the court, which will result in further court proceedings in Hungary. What was that about? Unibet disputes in the lawsuit the administrative decisions by which it was ordered to make its website temporarily unavailable. That was the court case. The decision of principle has been made. The main proceedings will continue before the Hungarian court. The final decision in this case is taken by the Metropolitan Administrative and Labour Court, taking into account, of course, the judgments of the European Court of Justice. The judgment of the European Court of Justice does not call into question the right of Member States to impose restrictions on the protection of consumers in order to combat fraud, either in the light of public policy considerations or in the light of the high health risks. The Court of Justice of the European Union therefore agrees with the Hungarian Government on the basic issues. The legal consequences of yesterday's judgment will therefore be deducted by the domestic court in the second half of 2017, taking into account the domestic regulatory environment. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-23-170	I would also like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that yesterday's judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union did not provide for any financial or other punishment, so that no material damage has been suffered so far. Once again, if you are interested not only in better websites, Kuruc.info or Index, you may be able to submit more fairer, more informed questions. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-06-23-171	Thank you, Minister Varga. Congressman György Szilágyi will have the floor in a minute. That's exactly right, so far there's been no damage, Minister. Minister, then you fully agree that since 2010, an offshore knight has taken more than HUF 12 billion out of the country through an offshore company in Luxembourg. You fully agree that this offshore knight - which is said to be over the age of offshore knights, said your prime minister - has multiplied his profits by twenty since 2010. You fully agree that this man does not have to connect cash registers, for example, because this man is the trusted gaming organizer that you have classified as a reliable gambling organizer, but otherwise we are talking about an offshore knight. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Minister, do you think this is transparency? In Hungary, this is what you have to follow, someone who belongs to you, you figure out someone who's a reliable gambler, and then this man has to pay taxes by paying what he confesses to himself, because there's nothing you can do to check it out. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-23-172	And you're free to take the money out of the country through offshore companies? Do you support that?
u2017-06-23-173	Thank you, Congressman. The rejoinder is also due to the Minister. [[György Szilágyi: So far! So far.]] Honourable Congressman, I am basically in favour of complying with the laws and regulations in force, and I am very sorry that you were most likely asked to write such a question, and you had to say it here. Now you feel that you've been caught in a trap, because what you've told me hasn't come true. You yourself began by saying that there was no damage, while your question concerns whether taxpayers should pay for this damage. I'm sorry, but I'm sensing a contradiction between your words here. Honourable Congressman, In Hungary, once again, there is a rule of law, in force court decisions can force compliance. If you have such reservations about anyone, please do so. You are a decent man, capable of acting as a representative, or as a citizen, in court. And if there's envy behind it, I'm afraid I can't help it. Hungary is no longer living in a period of communism. There are different performances in the economy as well as in the world of work. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] If you envy Sándor Csányi, Sándor Demján or others, unfortunately, you must be the one to be friendly. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-23-174	Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Minister Varga. Dear Parliament, We're gonna go back to simple oral questions.
u2017-06-23-175	István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. How will the recipes be replaced? It's an address. Congressman Tukacs has the floor. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In this kind, early summer mood, I would like to ask you, in a small family circle, about a news that no one has ever denied. It has appeared in several places, and this was about replacing the recipes - or even a prescription - that will only be triggered by the person whose name is on it, so it is entitled to do so. Dear Secretary of State, In my heart, I'd like to ask you right now if the news is true. In my heart, I would welcome the answer that this news is not true. I'm doing this because the daily practice is so, and everyone who's already taken the medication to replace their mother, father, family member, acquaintance, relative and neighbor, why wouldn't we, because that's what we're doing, and it's no harm to anyone. In some villages, and unfortunately there are many, there is no pharmacy. Here, the common practice is that a family member can be expected by an elderly person who does not want to or cannot go to the village next door, or who can expect some good friend or neighbor to act on his behalf, or quite simply by the villager collecting these needs and helping elderly people who no longer want or can't pass through the pharmacy of the neighbouring village or the small town next door. You deny the news, Mr. Secretary, because the truth is that if it is true that these people will give orders to those they expect to help, it is complicated for them, babbling, in many ways impossible, if it involves financial expenditure, don't give, say, a notary should be assigned to do such an assignment, and it costs money.
u2017-06-23-176	Mr State Secretary, there have been many ideas, and there have been many such ideas, which are intended to replace the concept that does not exist in health care, I hope it is such an idea. Tell me something about your latest idea. Mr President, thank you for the floor.
u2017-06-23-177	Thank you, Congressman Tukacs. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Your speech gives us a great opportunity to disprove another health cover. Of course, there is no such thing as that which you say, but obviously, it's the news companies who try to raise the click numbers and accuse the government of some kind of insane logic, well, they obviously spread it on the Internet. What's real? Fortunately, our health development has already entered the stage, the electronic health development, that there will now be an e-prescription, a digital recipe that the doctor prescribes, and then even without paper, if you go to the pharmacy with an e-personal, or go there with your current ID, so not yet with your e-personals, but with your plain card-based ID or your Taj card, without handing over any recipes, you can get the recipes you prescribed, you can replace them. So it can't happen that you lose it, it can't happen that it gets damaged, it doesn't happen to be misread, it's the data that the doctor has digitally prescribed that will go to the apothecary. [[15.30]] It's possible, of course, what you're saying, because we've all been in this situation to replace the medication of one of our relatives and acquaintances. In this case, the prescription certificate, which the patient will receive, can also be printed out by the doctor, and anyone who cannot go with his ID to replace the e-prescription, will give this prescription certificate to his child, grandson, neighbor, friend, helper, and he will go to the pharmacy. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-23-178	There are several signatures on the recipe at the bottom, and the patient has to have a signature on it, and the recipient of the medicine has to have a signature on it, so this system that works now can work. But besides, when someone really does replace your recipe, it's a lot easier, you can't mix it up, you can't lose it, you can't mix it up. And he has a better chance of healing, because the various drug susceptibilitys will be stored in this system, and the apothecary will be able to pay more attention to this, and the patient's path, the previous medications, will be more readily available to later physicians during subsequent treatments, since we can know and see exactly what has been prescribed, what has been triggered, and what diseases have been caused to the patient before. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-23-179	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Defence a question with a title Fidesz-style repair. Congressman Gergely Kulcsár has the floor. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, With regard to the restoration of our long-swimmed rotating wing capability, the government has been deceiving in recent years. Like the army, this ability has been successfully dismantled by our Fidesz and MSZP governments over the past decades. Recently, however, four Mi-17 helicopters returned from Novosibirsk. Since last autumn, the machines have undergone major repairs at a local repair plant, and a fifth helicopter will be deployed shortly for the same procedure. The cost of repairs amounted to HUF 4 billion. In addition, the government intends to spend a total of HUF 20 billion this year and next year to restore the fighting helicopter capability. To do this, they want to send 12 Mi-24s to Russia for major repairs. However, in the four recently returned helicopters, the most basic and long-lost developments were not carried out, as the so-called infra-trap equipment was not purchased, but the cabin and engine protection sheet or Kevlar deposit was also missing. These were not included in the requirements of the client, so the Ministry of Defence, even though there are much more serious defence systems in the offer of the Russian company that was renovating. Another negative is that two of the four machines sent out, whose instrument and cabin lighting was not yet compatible with night vision goggles, did not receive this amendment. Thus it can be said that Hungarian helicopters with the current equipment of their machines can only be heroic dead on a possible mission. But a lack of night vision can cause serious problems in a disaster or a night rescue. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-23-180	Dear Secretary of State, Do you find the major repairs that have been made satisfactory? What was the specific requirement of the customer? Do you think that the country's fighting and transporting rotating wings can be restored? Are the Mi-24 helicopters going through similar poor repairs? I look forward to your substantive answer.
u2017-06-23-181	Thank you, Congressman Key Price. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to reject the slippages in your question, as the false news about which my fellow State Secretary spoke is born, and I would also like to address your concerns and everyone's concerns about the state of the machines that have undergone major repairs, as well as the helicopter capacity of the country. The government has never refused to renew this ability when all conditions are available. In this case, 4+1 pieces of Mi-17 type medium transport helicopter have been chosen for industrial major repairs, which meant the complete improvement of the engine and dragon structure and not the modernisation or development of the devices. The embargo introduced against Russia would neither allow nor allow the acquisition of military equipment, nor the development of existing instruments or the addition and modernisation of existing instruments by various means, so it can only be a major industrial improvement. With regard to the details mentioned by you and some issues of a truly military professional nature, some things can be solved by using domestic or allied industrial backgrounds after major repairs, but I also think that modernising or modernising tools that are intended to remain in the system until the shape of the changer would be neither economical nor reasonable. The helicopters in question are not intended to be used in multi-national operations according to the Hungarian Defence Office's intentions. They carry out domestic national national security tasks, air research and rescue services, air transport, support for ground troops, training and disaster management. These helicopters will also have a further role to play in the training of helicopter pilots in flight pilot training. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-23-182	I ask you, everyone, to support our ideas in the future. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-23-183	Thank you, Mr. Secretary Tamás Vargha. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél and Ikotity István, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources: when will they start to set up education instead of crazy ideas? It's an address. Congressman Ikotity has the floor.
u2017-06-23-184	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Recently, there was a really crazy idea that the government wanted to launch a shooting in schools, as KLIK asked in a letter whether there was a suitable 6 times 15 meters area within schools or next to schools where a shooting range could be established. Someone inside the government has figured out that the choice of sports shooting is the solution to the problems of Hungarian education. The everyday singing or especially the, all schools have pianos! Earlier ideas have served at least serious goals, even if they have not touched the most serious problems. A few days ago we learned of another insane idea: László Parragh, Chairman of the Chamber of Industry, second-time Minister of Education, suggested that high schools should be closed because too many people go to these institutions and take students out of the vocational training that he supervised. We asked László Parragh directly about which high schools he would close, but that's what we asked the EMMI. The LMP strongly believes that the problems of Hungarian education cannot be helped by opening a shooting range or closing high schools. The idea of shooting is only a distraction from problems, but the closure of high schools is a very serious thing, it can cause a very serious further deterioration in the school system. Dear Secretary of State, Don't you have a better idea to solve the problems of education than those that have been said here? Shouldn't they be more concerned with dramatically deteriorating PISA results, segregation, saving young schools, improving the competitiveness of higher education or abolishing tuition fees? Instead of these insane ideas, when will they begin to correct education? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-06-23-185	Thank you, Congressman Ikotity. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Once again, you've been making good eye contact on the Internet between different fake news reports. It would be good if we could debate more serious issues here, honourable Member, than whether there will be shots fired in schools and asking similar questions. If you took the issue of education seriously, or if LMP took the issue of education seriously, if LMP had a vision of education, you wouldn't be asking such, but substantive questions. But we know you can demand the same and the same in education. Sometimes it is said that students are overworked, other times they say that it makes students dumb when they reduce content. But we have seen this in today's vote, they demand transparency in party financing, but when there is such a proposal, they vote against it in Parliament. But they also voted against the fact that, when we adopted the budget, we were able to provide surpluses both in higher education and in public education for both pupils and students next year, both in relation to wage increases and in terms of the surplus due to the teaching careers of 9 billion or the surplus due to the rating of 7 billion HUF - we encourage teachers who qualifying for themselves to do this next year by more than 7 billion HUF to teach children at an even better level than this year. Forint 1.8 billion for the extra 10 per cent of the staff directly assisting the educational work, however, even those who work with children in student self-government, specialized group or elsewhere also have items to encourage them. Here, there is an extra HUF 2 billion in the next year's budget for improving professional education and education in the training and pedagogical institutions, and also HUF 6 billion in investment for basic higher education activities, HUF 740 billion for doctoral students, for people with disabilities, for higher education, for teaching and research teachers, HUF 3.2 billion for the latter, HUF 1.9 billion for the wage increase of the others. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.40]]
u2017-06-23-186	Such surpluses are intended to serve quality higher education and quality public education in the coming year. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-23-187	Thank you, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Dear Parliament, István Horváth, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture: It's an address. Mr István Horváth has the floor. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I find the current political climate extremely treacherous. In the debate on the budget, we saw that the opposition is trying to make our particularly encouraging economic situation, to reduce the burden on the population again, to strengthen the position of the people at work, to show the respect of pensioners as if there were some injustice in the country. I find it particularly regrettable that the entire opposition will join forces to represent this pathetic position. We've seen the hardest sound of the MSZP's work. I would like to give you an example of the situation in the pig sector. At the end of socialist governance, around 2010, the pig sector was in a very bad situation. The then government did nothing to improve the situation of pig farmers. Between 2004 and 2008, pig farmers stopped their activities, the number of pigs decreased worryingly, the black economy flourished in the sector, and a large proportion of meat processors were close to bankruptcy. The civilian government has taken various strategic steps to drive the sector off the deep end. The tools available were not wide: restructuring of the support system, introducing new national aids, tax reduction, quality assurance, support for scientific activities, creation of a professional organisation and the establishment of an appropriate monitoring system. The sector's decline has stopped, it has started to develop stable and the signs are encouraging. The sector has whitened, increased the appetite for pigs, and the number of pigs has started to increase. While rescue efforts were needed earlier to save some meat plants, we recently attended a ceremony of one of the largest and most modern slaughterhouses in the region. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I respectfully ask the Secretary of State how the government judges these signs. [[The President shall again indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] what developments are being made in the sector, how they will affect the sector, according to the portfolio
u2017-06-23-188	in Hungary today, the pig sector is in a state compared to the previous one, how the wallet evaluates the steps taken to restore the pig sector to its recovery.
u2017-06-23-189	Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-06-23-190	What steps is the portfolio planning to take to further improve the situation in the pig sector?
u2017-06-23-191	Thank you very much, Congressman István Horváth. I give the floor to State Secretary István Nagy. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, Yes, the fact is that it is very difficult to talk in two minutes about the development of a sector, the situation of a sector. I'll be in the same kind of trouble when I have to give you an answer. The truth is that the answer to your question can be expressed in a sentence with a comprehensive, thought-out strategy. If we can go through all the elements of this, this sector will continue to be a success. If I were to say just one number to you, I would say that the output volume in the pig sector increased by 13 percent between 2013 and 16 percent, which is the fifth highest value in the EU. The central element of the government's agricultural policy is livestock production, including the development of the pig sector. Let us look at the subsidies that have been implemented. Of the national aids, pig welfare subsidies are the most important. From 2015 the programme started more jobs in agriculture, thanks to the additional resources provided in this framework, the maximum HUF 9 billion of HUF 144 million approved by the Commission was allocated in 2016 and 17 instead of HUF 6 billion in 2016. In 2015, animal welfare support for breeding sows was launched as a new support programme, with HUF 8.6 billion per year. Within the framework of the implementation of the strategy launched in 2012, infrastructure investments to support breeding and benchmarking, the pig sector information system, and the trade mark "Excellent quality pigmeat" were developed. In 2014, live and half pigs fell to 5 percent, and from 16 onwards, the VAT on pig meat and from 2018 pig offal will also be subject to the reduced VAT rate. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-06-23-192	The most important tasks of the future are to achieve the greatest possible producer income security. That is what we want, and allow me to thank you for your role in this work as a ministerial commissioner. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-23-193	Thank you, Secretary of State István Nagy. Dear Parliament, Imre Horváth, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office whether or not it is possible? It's an address. Congressman Imre Horváth has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, An interesting article appeared on one of the news portals recently, the essence of which is that Mr Tamás László Fideszes, Member, explains why Lazarus's panel resolution plan is impossible. According to this, Tamás László, Fideszes Újpalota, who is a member of the Parliament of the Government, states that Mr Lázár's plan to dismantle panel houses is not applicable in the Hungarian residential estate.
u2017-06-23-194	In view of the fact that many people live in panel houses in Újpesten, as well as in the neighbouring Újpalota, I ask what Mr Lázár bases his plans to dismantle the panel houses. Who is wrong: Mr Lazarus, or the XV. Fidesz representative of the district? In view of the fact that the pilot project on dismantling would be launched in Hódmezővásárhely in Mr Lázár's constituency, I ask how it is intended to improve the quality of life of people living in the panel. As a matter of fact, it is also very difficult, legally, to begin the demolition of panel houses in view of the wide range of ownership. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2017-06-23-195	Thank you, Congressman Horváth. I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Mr President, thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, This also proves that the press should not be read in such a warm weather, because one will draw false conclusions. At the moment, we are talking about how, when the country's economy is going well, it is worth considering how the current Hungarian government can provide significant help to improve the living conditions of our fellow countrymen living in the panel, some 1.2 million. We are talking about and we have started a consultation on the form in which this can be done. Regardless of this, Hungary's Government has signed an agreement with the city of Hódmezővásárhely, as well as with the other 22 county-righted towns, under the program "Modern Cities". This is about the fact that, in the case of a specific panel, a city rehabilitation programme will be implemented strictly in the event of a complete compromise with the community, the municipality of the city and the architect society. Most of the Hungarian panels, almost all of them, were built in Hungary between 1970 and 1990. It seems that there is a unanimous consensus that these buildings are in a static sense, but that they need to be technically renovated. The government is now conducting a deep and thorough consultation of all organisations, including architects, panel representatives, engineers, financial financiers who can participate in the implementation of such a programme. The aim of the consultation is to put a debate paper before Parliament in the autumn, and to start thinking about how this issue can be, which, I think, is a top priority, to start working together with them to work on how to improve the living conditions of 1.2 million people in the panel. We ask for your support. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-06-23-196	Thank you very much.
u2017-06-23-197	Thank you, Secretary of State Csepreghy. Dear Parliament, Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "Why did you let the Planetarium in Népliget ruin? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Kepli has the floor. [[15.50]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, There is a 40-year-old institution in Népliget, which beats hundreds of thousands of visitors a year and is called the Planetarium. We all know this, at least from our childhood, youth, school trips, visits, and to this day, and until the end of last week, a crowd of children, families, adults visited it, as they could receive an extremely interesting dissemination of knowledge from astronomy, from the stars who visited it. This Planetarium worked as an extremely important background institution for natural science training. With an amount of approximately HUF 2-3 billion, this institution would be completely refurbished, but so far the government has not provided any funds, so this great institution closed its doors indefinitely at the end of last week. We do not know if it will ever open again, because the condition of the building is so critical that if we leave it this way, so that the weather and the various factors will no longer be able to renovate it, or perhaps build a whole new building in its place, obviously for multiples of this cost. In this 3 billion forints there is already the replacement of engineering, so it would be possible to do a XXI with completely modern devices. A century-old planetarium, which plays an extremely important role in the education of children, youth and adults, as as astronomical training has always been a somewhat incomplete area - I think - for science education, because very few such institutions are in Hungary. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-23-198	My question is, what does the government intend to do, whether they will save this fine institution, whether they will devote funds to it in the near future, and if so, when it will happen. I look forward to your substantive reply, Mr. Secretary. Thank you.
u2017-06-23-199	Thank you, Congressman Kepli. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The future of the Planetarium and Planetarium is important to all of us. The institution itself is not a state institution, but the institution of the Scientific Knowledge Society, the KIC, which is supported by the government for HUF 22 million in both this year's and next year's budgets - the KIC. The land on which the Planetarium stands is owned, but it is owned by four owners: the Hungarian State, the Municipality of Budapest, the district municipality and the BKV-BKK, so it is such a common plot of four owners. Therefore, in order for any kind of work to take place, ownership and territorial relations must be settled first. But of course, the government is also constantly examining what and how it can do. Obviously, when Városliget was conceived, they were already part of the Planetarium in the summer of 2016 as to what development future we intend for the Planetarium. In the course of the studies, it became clear that the renovation of the Planetarium cannot be fully financed from European Union funds, but in parallel in recent years many cultural developments in Budapest have been successful, it is enough to think about the Castle Garden Bazaar, the Liszt Academy, the Pesti Vigado, Buda Vigado or the Museum of Fine Arts. So there have been countless cultural developments in Budapest, and there are many in Városliget and beyond. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-23-200	We are therefore trying to find a common solution with the KIC, together with the four owners, to support the KIC's activities not only in relation to the Planetarium, but also in relation to the Uránia Observatory, in relation to the scientific journals on Life and Science, Reality and the World of Nature, as Mr. These activities, the Planetarium and the magazines, and the observatory can expand the scientific knowledge of young people, increase their interest, and perhaps encourage them to do something more scientific. So the government's activity is continuing in this, too, and I hope to be able to tell you about progress soon. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-23-201	Thank you, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy:. Done scam show in Csorna? It's an address. At the request of Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, who is competent and responsible for the subject, the Prime Minister will answer the question. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! On 19 July 2011, EcoSolifer AG announced in the press that EcoSolifer AG would set up a solar plant in Csorna for an investment of EUR 50 million. At that time, we were told that the plant would rumble with 160 employees in the summer of 12 and EUR 50 million a year. Zsolt Becsey, Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Economy, promised state aid of HUF 935 million, and János Áder promised one of those XXI. It has been visualizing a company with a technology of the century, which is not yet in Hungary. Then, in September 2014, he laid down the foundation stone, which was already a serious slippage, but the point is that, despite the fact that the story has been delayed for years, the following articles were published in the pro-government press: the following title:, The transfer-over has been started, the training of 30 employees has begun, the machines will also be installed, the expected increase in the market and the rest. So what now? According to the latest news, they've already sent out security guards. The factory was built, but the technology was nowhere to be found. Colleagues whose recruitment and training had also begun stopped, were sent away. In addition, despite the fact that I am writing to you about how much the state, the taxpayers, have lost in this story, in this solar cell factory in Csorna, which is currently operating as a spirit hangar, these answers run against full contradictions. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-23-202	So I'd like to finally clarify how much tax money has been put into the company so far. Did you receive the HUF 2 billion EU and HUF 1 billion government support? What about the HUF 7 billion eximbank loan, how much of this was used by the plant? Can the Csorna people even hope that the solar cell factory that you have promised so many times will operate and that the region can have a serious job opportunity? I look forward to these at last to a meaningful, real answer.
u2017-06-23-203	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs László Szabó. Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, In 2010, we set the goal of making Hungary the centre of production of Europe, and in 2014 we added it to create as many high-tech R &amp; D and innovation capacities as possible in Hungary, and this is how we look at the figures. EcoSolifer Modulgyártó Kft. The investment in Csorna will also help to achieve these objectives, of course not by the State, not by the government, but by the investors. Based on the decision of the national economy, the investment received HUF 2 billion of EU funding. The government also decided to grant individual government decision-based investment aid for the construction of the solar cell plant in Csorna, amounting to HUF 1 billion. The grant agreement was signed in June 2014. The sponsor has imposed strict conditions in the contract, which he has done in the interest of responsible management of taxpayers' money. The amount of aid shall be paid only if all the conditions laid down in the contract are fulfilled.
u2017-06-23-204	To date, the amount of aid has not been paid. The project did not receive any grants from Eximbank. Eximbank takes into account the legal requirements, the interests of the Hungarian national economy, the retention of Hungarian jobs and the creation of all loans. In the specified loan transaction, Eximbank complied with the legal conditions and fulfilled its commitments. We hope that this investment will start soon, and that this investment will start to the satisfaction of the people of Csorna and Csorna and the development of the Hungarian national economy. Thank you very much. Thank you, Secretary of State László Szabó. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today.
u2017-06-23-205	It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, I would like to give the floor to István Ikotity, from the LMP Group, who has applied for the post-meeting speech. It's an address. He's got a five-minute window. [[16.00]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to give you some details. The Felcsút Aftercare Foundation, the Prime Minister's home team, receives Tao support of almost HUF 3 billion for the period 2016-17. András Tállai's empire, the Zsóry Soccer Club Mezőkövesd receives nearly 800 million forints. The Pilisi Football Club, where there is only a county first-class team, receives over 700 million forints. Minister Seszták's favorite team, the Várda Sports Association, has HUF 580 million in public money for this period. The Illés Sport Foundation receives 476 million HUF in Szombathely. And then I only listed the top, sponsored sports organizations from the 16-17 period, including two football academys. Yes, with our money, Hungarian football is stuffed with public money. These amounts are already knife-opening, knowing the results of Hungarian football universities and the international results of Hungarian football. It should also be remembered that the MLSZ is already registering cleaning staff in the club teams as football players in its own system, so that they can show an increase in the number of registered football players in Hungary. But I would also like to provide you with some additional information. The Hungarian time spent on recreational sports is not only increasing, but, on the contrary, decreasing, the average physical activity in Hungary is 15 minutes per day. We are one of Europe's laziest nations in terms of sport, and it is particularly worrying that only 15 percent of Hungarian society does some sporty leisure activity. The proportion of regular athletes in Hungary is 9.7 percent for men and 4 percent for women. Are there billions to sponsor Viktor Orbán, András Tállai or Miklós Seszták's hobby, and only a thousandth to protect the health and health of citizens? In view of this, what is happening today in sports life and football is particularly shocking. And what happens at the sports coach level when the team brings another shameful result against Andorra? As soon as we got used to the Orbán government, who made our country a country without consequences - it was not Balázs Judszak who should have apologized to the Hungarian people, he was only part of a corrupt system, but not the cause. The Orbán-Csányi soccer model with its academy, stadium constructions, fattening up buddies' businesses is what has been a major failure, so the Prime Minister should stand up and follow the Hungarian people for throwing massive billions on his hobbies. Leadership heads should fall, of course, so that something better can come of it. Months earlier, we asked both the Prime Minister and the EMMI to issue an official professional evaluation of the performance of football academies in cooperation with MLSZ. We just wanted to get answers to such simple questions, for example, about how many European front-running footballers have left the academy, how much football they play, how many people are playing sports today under the influence of the football program, or whether the Felcsút academy managed to get into the top 10 in Europe, implementing the Prime Minister's previous plans. However, we have not received any substantive answers to our questions, but we have been accused of being unfairly assaulted and accused of turning sports into politics, says a government whose vassals are sitting at the head of almost all sports associations and football clubs. The Prime Minister and Sándor Csányi left one right move: Csányi announce his resignation, and Viktor Orbán immediately reconsider and reconfigure the amok run of the public money rogue. Public companies should not spend a penny on sponsorship of professional clubs, the public interest data we request about the football academies should be published without delay by EMMI, instead of the stadium building program, mass sports development, school gyms and school schools, building and maintaining community sports fields, as well as the government's support for health-preservation programmes, in a transparent way, without any additional public funds! [[Dóra Dúró applauds.]]
u2017-06-23-206	Thank you for your attention.
u2017-06-23-207	Thank you, Congressman. After the agenda, Mr Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz Group, spoke with the title of our joint achievements. You have the floor, Congressman. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you for the word and the opportunity. After the items on the agenda, I asked for the floor on an important issue of national importance that significantly affected the lives of the people of Heves County, Eger and Eger. I want to talk about an old plan to make an old dream available, but this is the question of the M25 road connecting Eger to Budapest, the capital city, connecting Eger to the motorway. The people of Heves County, Eger, have long been concerned about this issue. The M25 trip has been promised countless times, but much progress has not been made. The connection path is very important, as it can significantly shorten the distance of Budapest-Eger, Eger-Budapest by 15-20 minutes. Not to mention the safety and quality of travel, the relief of the surrounding municipalities. Dear Parliament, The city of Eger is one of the most visited and popular locations of domestic and foreign tourists. We have something to be proud of, for example, the Eger castle is the country's most visited rural museum, we have basilica, lyceum, many historical sights, excellent wines, healing waters. We also have a paper on the M25 road connecting Eger to the motorway, signed by Viktor Orbán, Prime Minister of Hungary, within the framework of the programme "Modern Cities" - two lanes will be built twice instead of the previous one-track road. The announcements and preparations relating to this have already been made to a large extent. Meanwhile, a Member of the Parliament of Jobbik proposed redesigning the M25 route, which would prolong the investment for a long time. If you can't help me, at least don't hurt me. - the Eger people say.
u2017-06-23-208	In the city, an Internet petition was launched under the name M25 NOST, in order to support the original plan, not the long delaying proposal of the locals. So far, more than 2 000 people have completed this petition, and they have put faith in the original plans and the original time frame. Eger's moments are expensive, the M25 road must be implemented according to the original plans, with the original schedule, because this is the solution that is good for all people in Eger and Eger and opens the way for development and progress. I hope that the foundation stone will be launched soon and that the investment will be officially launched. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-06-23-209	Thank you, Congressman Zsolt Nitrai. Dear Parliament, In addition, Mrs Dóra Dúró, from the Jobbik Group, spoke after the agenda:. Telebirth, breeding animals and the stinking witch - 20th century discourse on motherhood. It's an address. I'll give you the floor for five minutes. [[16.10]] Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, This provocative title is not my own invention, it is not my creation, it is the words that Fidesz and the politicians of the MSZP have used in the demographic debates of the past period in relation to motherhood. We can remember that Fidesz Vice President Szilárd Németh first used this term "full delivery" and then Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, who called the mothers "mothers" and tried to criticize the government's policy in this style, and then, I believe that Ottó Gajdics, the editor-in-chief of the Hungarian Times, crossed all borders when he called Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a member of the Parliament "smelly" and even said that he was not a human being. I do not know if these ladies and gentlemen will even notice what words are being used when they talk about motherhood and whether this will help to stop, manage and increase Hungary's greatest problem, demographic disaster. Unfortunately, this makes 2017. We were further away in the first quarter of the year, as the KSH announcement was published today, which says that Hungary's depopulation has accelerated further, the birth rate has decreased further compared to the same period of the previous year, and the number of deaths has increased. The demographic issue also places great responsibility from a community and private perspective on all people who are public actors, especially politicians, who make decisions about this aspect of life. We should be aware that 40 percent of 40-year-old women in Hungary are childless and 78 thousand Hungarian children were born abroad in seven years. Natural weight loss is further accelerated by a wave of emigration that has reached amazing levels in Hungary, and now the data of both KSH and Eurostat show that the number of Hungarians who have left their country in recent years is estimated to be around 500 thousand, and according to a survey by KSH, another 370 thousand are preparing for this in the next few months, so that half of these 370 thousand people have already applied for a job. We therefore have a Community responsibility to ensure that social security is sustainable, so that the entire public finances do not collapse. That is why Jobbik is proposing a decision in order to reduce to a minimum the VAT on articles needed to raise children, so that we can help parents and families who have children in the long term. A housing programme should be launched for young people who plan to have children, provide them with predictable, cheap housing conditions, and family support, like pensions, should follow inflation. Let the families of the government be worth as much as pensioners are worth. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-23-210	From a private point of view, it is also important to approach this issue, because many young couples, we can perceive from different surveys and in our environment that they are full of doubts. Doubts, because they do not know in advance what having children means, do not know what it will mean to them physically, spiritually, emotionally or even financially, but it is our job, politicians and public figures, to help them overcome these doubts. As politicians, we take measures that provide a predictable vision and make young people feel that every Hungarian child is a public treasure, the child is also a blessing to the family, but the standard on which even Szilárd Németh, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély or Ottó Gajdics talks about motherhood and childbearing does not help Hungary to emerge from the demographic catastrophe. Full delivery, breeding and stinking hags, they all take us further from the solution, the XX. They're products of politics of the century, we don't need them. We need solutions, which Jobbik, both as a political party and as a private person, would all like to help Hungary to become a growing nation, and each young Hungarian couple should live by being a motherhood profession and the child as a blessing. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-06-23-211	Thank you, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró. Dear Parliament, Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech, and I will give the floor in five minutes:, The love never goes away. - The life and work of Archbishop Gyula Márfi Veszprém. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, * Love never goes away. The Archbishop chose the passage of the first Corinthians letter of his slogan. Love never goes away, as he said, because love is final, and an explanation of everything. I thought that since Mr Archbishop had just had his 50-year-old Mass, his golden Mass, it was necessary to remember his work and his way of life between Parliament and Parliament. On 19 July, Gyula Márfi's Golden Mass of Archbishop of Veszprém took place in St. Michael's Basilica of Veszprém, and, by the way, as a token of respect, I would like to mention his way of life here among the walls of the House. Gyula Márfi was born on 17 December 1943 in Pördeföld, a small village in Zala county. At a young age, he began to be interested in the priestly profession, and it was probably a big part of his brother's choice of career. When he was 13, he started an altar at Paka. Sundays were for the family about the Holy Mass. The nearest church was an hour's walk from their home, which is the way the family took every Sunday. According to Gyula Marfi, he was very fond of going to Mass, he listened to the sermon with great attention. Although the political arrangement did not favor the true believers, he was very attached to his faith and tried to find answers to his doubts and questions out of self - determination. He attended the Pannonhalm Benedictine High School, where the Benedictine Fathers there had a great influence on him. He graduated in 1962 and then continued his studies at the Central Pap education Institute in Budapest. On June 18, 1967, in Szombathely, he was consecrated as a priest, and he was always proud of that. Where he was massing, he always said that he was proud that his 17 years in Szombathely were like the years of Bishop Martin, since Bishop St. Martin also spent his military years in Szombathely. Each time, Archbishop said this, he was proud of it every time I met him. Pakan was a chaplain between 1967 and 1968, then in Nyőger for 4 years, then in Kőszeg from 1973 to 1976. Meanwhile, he was on study leave in Budapest from 1968 to 1969, during which he obtained the theological doctorate. He studied in Paris between 1976-78 as a scholarship student. From 1978 he became a bishop's clerk, then a bishop's secretary, and later an office manager. ANNEX II On 11 November 1995, Pope John Paul appointed him as bishop of Amansia and assistant bishop of Eger. He was consecrated as a bishop in Eger on 2 December 1995. On 14 August 1997 the Pope appointed him as Archbishop of Veszprém, the inauguration of Archbishop took place on 5 September 1997. The closest thing he has to a priest's work is the narrow pastoral work, but he also feels close to the high priest's work, such as the pedigree or the presentation of the solemn sermons. He's trying to reach out to people. One of his great virtues is that he can pass on the Christian teachings clearly and clearly to his audience. It paves the way for those interested in the priestly profession and gives them guidance. In addition to Christian values, the Archbishop also has national values in mind, so he repeatedly takes a position on public issues, such as migration, which he considers to be a threat to an unrevealed Europe. He considers it important to return to the roots as soon as possible and urges everyone to take their Christian faith seriously again. On the occasion of the 50-year-old jubilee of Archbishop Gyula Márfi, he performed a Thanksgiving Mass at St. Michael's Basilica on the evening of 19 June. Hundreds of people arrived for the golden Mass, and because of the lack of space, many of them were able to observe the events on the screen set up in the Holy Trinity Square. With the beautiful ceremony, they celebrated the 50 years of devoted service and work of Gyula Marfi. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-23-212	I wish the Archbishop here, from among the walls of Parliament, the good health of his priestly work, profession and creed.
u2017-06-23-213	Thank you very much, Congressman. Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik, has applied for a post-meeting speech in the new village of Berettyó? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, After the storms of history, the Bihar region has been plagued by Hungarian politics for decades, and the Hungarian governments have been treating Berettyóújfalu and its region as step-alongers since 1990. In the Bihar parts, unemployment is much higher than the average, there is a lack of job opportunities. Even if there is a job, the wages are lower than the average in Hungary. Deportation also hits the settlements of the region to a great extent. The better case is that the locals find work in Debrecen, because in that case they may not leave their homeland, but most of the young people migrate to Budapest, Western Hungary and abroad in the hope of a better livelihood. In the smaller settlements of the region, the problem of Hungarian-Gypsy coexistence is also present and makes everyday life of the people living here difficult. In this situation without a vision, the new people of Beretto village were hit by the news that a prison hospital was being set up in the city. The Fidesz city administration quickly handed over the selected area to the state in the vicinity of the István Gróf Hospital. According to their communication, they would create 200 new jobs and stabilise the situation of the regional hospital for several decades. It is an interesting question that 200 jobs do not necessarily mean new jobs, because they hire people with special skills in a hospital and they would also bring workers from the prison hospital in Kököl, so the new institution would give the locals very little work. The sentence that the prison hospital would stabilize the situation of the regional hospital for decades requires a serious explanation from the city's administration or, most importantly, the Ministry. If it becomes a separate institution, as the authorities say, what will it have to do with the hospital in Berettyóújfalu? Criminals get better health care, more modern tools than average patients? Why do you need a prison hospital to ensure the functioning of a hospital? [[16.20]] By the way, both Miskolc and Sikson have been involved in the implementation of the inmate hospital, but the resistance of the locals has caused these attempts to fail. Here in Berettyó's new village, people have serious grievances about the institution. The fact that the locals were simply trying to leave the population out of it has already knocked out the security. First, we should have consulted the citizens of Berettyóújfalu and then decided on the area, but it seems that Fidesz was not interested in the opinion of the people in this case either, although they organised a residential forum, which will take place on Monday. We hope that the most important questions will be answered in this forum, although we have serious concerns, because there will be no one from the Ministry in the forum announced, just as there is no one in the House, let alone from the competent ministry, but from any ministry, no Member or any Secretary of State. However, Minister Gábor Csiba came to the council meeting where they decided on the fate of the plot and made strange findings. Ladies and gentlemen, I have not yet said how much the sense of people's security is impaired by the establishment of such an institution. How can people feel safe when there are criminals next door? In the prison hospital in Kököl there are about 110,000 convicted criminals per year, and there are 1,300 in one year. Does Berettyo New Village miss this? I hope that we will receive these answers from the competent ministry, although, as I have just mentioned, I will not be able to do so, because only better representatives are sitting in the benches. Are you planning to set up a prison hospital within the new village hospital in Berettyó, or will it be a separate institution? What security measures will be taken inside and outside the institution? Do you need to hand over the medical resources to the city hospital to the new facility? What guarantee do you have that prison hospital workers will not be drained from the city hospital? Since it is known that if they work in the bv, the wages are higher than in health care, according to pay signs. How do you intend to ensure a carefree and secure visitation order? Will the rights of civilian patients and their relatives not be restricted because of the large number of prisoners placed in the same or neighbouring institution? Will the waiting lists grow because of prisoners in a hospital with a medical and nursing deficiency so far? Do you wish to receive the same medical care as other patients? Do inmates really have an extraordinarily important role in the investigation, as opposed to law-abiding patients? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-23-214	And I could tell you more about the issues that arise, but I'd rather ask the authorities to step away from this plan and not set up a prison hospital in Berettyó new village. For once, this time, in this case, listen to the words of the local people. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-06-23-215	Thank you, Congressman Key Price. István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech:. Why does the Government not support the restoration of cemeteries left behind by the displaced Germans and Slovaks who have passed through the exchange of inhabitants and are still careless today? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear colleagues from Jobbikos, On May 30, I spoke among the walls of this House about the fact that the system of national cooperation did not in any way remember the great work of Ferenc Deák, the 150th anniversary of the compromise. Fidesz is obviously unable to deal with a date which is also about compromise, consideration and integration of opposing opinions. The lack of memory, of course, is not surprising in the light of the fact that the Deáks opened an era of reconciliation in the history of our country, which has led to unimaginable economic, social or cultural and scientific progress, starting Hungary's catch-up to the forefront of Europe. In contrast, Fidesz has built a country in the last seven years that does not even reach the Romanian average, while in its public life it is slowly more similar to one of the Central Asian or African semi-dictures than a modern XXI. European state of the century. One example of this is the bill of posters passed by the use of their remaining parliamentary majority for a short period of ten months, which surpasses the harshest administrative actions of the happy times of peace in order to make the opposition at that time no doubt unfairly impossible. Ladies and gentlemen, For us goodies, the compromise says that Hungarian society must not be divided to the extreme and turned against each other. The European Union can be reformed, not with fake freedom fights leading anywhere, but, for example, with a successful EU wage fight. For example, this is what we remember from 1867. However, it seems to you that only the emancipation of Judaism, in which the government intends to provide a significant source for the reconstruction of abandoned Jewish cemeteries in compliance with strict religious standards from 2018. That is, of course, not the decision I wish to criticise in itself. At the same time, I also think it is important to draw attention to the fact that not only the Jewish community in Hungary has left behind and uncared cemeteries, but also to Germans expelled from their homeland after the Second World War and to Slovaks in the Czechoslovak-Hungarian population exchange. To give a concrete example, the centuries-old tombstones with German inscriptions lie in the cemetery and dumped in the nearby forest in Tolna County, for example, Grabóc. But the situation is similar in Tolna County Szalkan and many other smaller settlements. These seem to have been forgotten by the government. Of course, I am also aware that the remaining Swabian community has not issued such a high-ranking worker who could advise the Prime Minister on this matter. Dear Parliament, According to my information, there are currently no plans for a cemetery reconstruction in national minority applications. The calls for proposals do not support such goals, and according to our calculations, we can only talk about a few ten million forints, since these cemeteries do not have strict religious standards and, in most cases, separate principles. In addition, there are settlements such as Ecser, a former Slovak population in Pest County, where enthusiastic local young people have developed stone gardens from tombstones in unused parts of cemeteries, saving them from extinction and oblivion. This activity should also be supported, and I believe that with the involvement of stakeholders, this issue could be resolved quickly and effectively if there was a political will. I am sure that the national minority authorities and the churches concerned would be partners in this. Although I have now only highlighted the Hungarian swabs and lakes, other nationalities may be involved in this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, As an Evangelical Hungarian with Svabic ancestors, I personally consider it a great loss that the linguistic, ethnic and religious diversity of the decades of dualism can now appear only in our cemeteries in many cases, especially in the XX. After hundreds of thousands of devastating disasters from their homeland. However, I believe that Hungary's important task is to preserve these spaces and make these important chapters of our history accessible to future generations. Not to mention that by effectively solving this problem, our country could once again set a good example for the neighbouring countries who want to drive Hungary away from its cemeteries. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-23-216	Although, unfortunately, no one on the government's part felt it important to answer the speeches after today's agenda, I am asking my questions now, trusting that at least I will get answers to them at a later stage, or even if I do not have an answer, but perhaps action can be taken in these matters. I wanted to ask the government whether they have a register of where nationalities who once lived in Hungary are located. Cemeteries left behind because of the historical storms of the century, and why the government does not support the restoration of Jewish cemeteries, as well as the restoration of displaced Germans and Slovaks who have passed away with the exchange of inhabitants, and possibly cemeteries left behind by other nationalities. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Congressman Savay. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the Parliament is expected to take place in September 2017. [[The meeting ended at 4:28 p.m.]]
