u2017-02-22-0	Dear Parliament, The 3rd day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Dezső Liberty will be in charge of this meeting. Welcome to our dear guests and all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian National Bank's business report and report for the year 2015 and the joint general discussion of the resolution proposal for its adoption will follow. Report submitted by the Hungarian National Bank B/10645. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Economic Committee, H/13282. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr György Matolcsy, President of the Hungarian National Bank, author of the report, in a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2017-02-22-1	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, Gentlemen, The Hungarian National Bank continued the monetary policy turn in 2015 that it started in March 2013. Thanks to this monetary policy turnaround and the integrated supervisory operation, the Hungarian National Bank achieved very significant successes in 2015 and then in 2016-17. These successes are not the success of the Hungarian National Bank in itself, but the success of the Hungarian State. Hungary has proven to itself and to the world that it is possible to operate efficient public institutions that regulate the market, but also allow market businesses to breathe, support, support growth and employment, but do not interfere in the way in which business works that would hinder, restrict its independence. In fact, the National Bank of Hungary closed one of the most successful years of its life in 2015, i.e. since its establishment in 1924. This is due, first and foremost, to the fact that the Hungarian National Bank fulfilled the three mandates of the Central Bank Act at the same time; the first mandate: ensuring price stability, the second mandate: achieving financial stability and the third: growth and employment, i.e. supporting the government's economic policy. I have to say that this is exceptional in the modern operation of the Hungarian National Bank, let us say in the post-1990 market economy environment, and also in relation to the post-2013 period. The strongest signal of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank to the business sector and foreign partners is that a state institution - in this case the central bank - can successfully complete all three of its mandates. This is also due to Hungary's successful economic policy change from 2010 onwards. This first appeared in a fiscal turnaround, which was supported by an employment turnaround, and then by the other side of economic policy, monetary policy, as of March 2013. It could not have been a monetary political turnaround without the previous economic policy turnaround, nor could it have been an economic turnaround without the previous political turnaround. Thus, the State is able to operate all the instruments of economic policy in a coordinated manner. The Hungarian National Bank could achieve exceptionally successful operation in 2015, because the government and the central bank, the government responsible for economic policy and the Hungarian National Bank responsible for monetary policy operated in a strategic alliance, coordinated and coordinated manner. Ladies and Gentlemen, In 2015, the central bank continued the relaxing monetary policy, which was very favourable to the business environment, which was launched from March 2013. Within the framework of this, by the end of 2015, the central bank base rate was reduced to 1.35 percent, and since then, as we know, 0.9 percent. Still, we are talking about a historical low point - in this case the low point is a very good thing - in the case of the base rate. The low base rate means that all the interest rates on loans, all the loans taken up by the business environment, are significantly more favourable and, of course, means that the government's debt financing has become cheaper. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Hungarian National Bank continued its growth loan programme in 2015, which is one of the main sources of success. Within the framework of the growth loan programme, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises have now received HUF 2600 billion in Hungary, with cheap loans, the Hungarian National Bank pays this loan with zero interest rates to the banking sector, and until the end of 2015 the loans of this growth loan programme were HUF 2100 billion. The growth credit programme was a very significant series of financial relaxation measures, the effects of which are, of course, reflected in both employment and domestic GDP data, i.e. in the growth of gross domestic product. [[9.10]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Together, the base rate reduction and the growth loan programme increased the rate of domestic growth by around 1.5 percent in 2013-14 and 2014-15. And that means that the Hungarian National Bank, supporting the government's economic policy, gave about half of GDP growth in the period 2013-2015, as it did in the 16th century. It's a significant achievement. Once again, this is based on Hungary's successful economic policy turnaround since 2010, there were certain fiscal bases for the monetary policy turnaround, and the central bank's conservative policy, but creatively and innovatively used the central bank's toolbox. Your Honour, Mr. President. Together, the initial interest rate reduction and the growth loan programme increased not only the pace of economic growth, giving about half of it, but also, of course, the reduction of the base rate, but also the additional source of budgetary revenue from the growth loan programme achieved that public finances were in a significantly better position through the programmes of the Hungarian National Bank. This means that public debt financing decreased by HUF 300 billion between 2013-15. It's a very large sum. This favourable situation would not have arisen if there had not been a monetary policy turnaround, before the fiscal turnaround, and otherwise, if there had not been a low base rate or a growth credit programme. But fortunately, after the favourable monetary policy environment has survived and sovereign debt loans are being transferred, the total Hungarian government debt will be reversed in nine and a half years, so not only between 2013 and 2015, the budget won around HUF 300 billion through low base rate policy, but it will gain more and more every year. I have to say that already in 2016, the budget alone had a surplus of more than HUF 300 billion left in the budget, because it did not have to be paid for debt financing, and by 2020, after the government debt has been repriced, it could reach 2 percent of GDP, so savings are about HUF 600 billion. Therefore, it is extremely important that the Hungarian National Bank, as part of the state, should support the government's economic policy, because this can reduce the financing costs of the high government debt accumulated previously incorrectly. Your Honour, Mr. President. Congresswoman and Lords! Let me also say that in 2015 the Hungarian National Bank launched a self-financing programme. The point of this is not to have banks park the money at the central bank, but to do something better, such as buying sovereign debt. This has also proved to be a very successful programme. By doing so, we have achieved a reduction from the previous very high level to 31 percent of the foreign exchange ratio within the government debt by the end of 2015, and we have achieved it, as the banks have purchased forint-state paper from the funds previously parked at the Hungarian National Bank, and we have achieved later, by the end of 2016, that it is now 25 percent. I think that we need to continue on this path and reduce the foreign exchange ratio within the sovereign debt to a close of 10% in Hungary. Ladies and Gentlemen, In 2015, for the first time after 2002, the Hungarian National Bank was able to pay dividends to the budget. The dividend payment is not mandatory, it is the independent decision of the Board of Directors of the National Bank of Hungary, but the central bank was profitable in 2013 and 14 too, but at that time we accumulated a reserve to secure the monetary policy of the central bank. In 2015, we made a record profit of HUF 95 billion, the majority of which, i.e. HUF 50 billion, was paid into the budget as dividends. [[Dr. István Józsa: 260?]] Honourable Congressman, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We would like to say - thank you very much for your very kind comment - that the Hungarian National Bank will give Hungary HUF 1000 billion in 2015, 16 and 17 with all its programmes. It'll give you a thousand billion forints back! The central bank that you supported and the central bank management that you appointed took about this much from Hungary. He gave it to people who took the money. You may be crying back, Mr. Congressman, but I hope you don't. [[Dr. István Józsa: This is a mistake.]] I think it was a big mistake too, Congressman. It was a huge mistake to run a central bank and appoint a central bank management that damaged Hungary by HUF 1000 billion. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: He did not harm anyone. The president's ringing the bell.]] Today, once again, on the basis of economic policy since 2010, the Hungarian National Bank does not contribute to Hungary's financial position by HUF 1000 billion without a fiscal turnaround. Mr President, I think it's worth stopping here for a civil word. There was a shadow of 2015 right at the beginning of the first four months. This shadow has been visible since August 2014. In 2015, Hungary was loud with broker scandals. First, the fraudulent company Buda-Cash, then a fraudulent insurance company called Hungária, then an even more fraudulent broker named Quaestor, fell in, because with the new method of investigation by the central bank, he found the tricks he had accumulated 10 to 15 years ago. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Do you believe that?]] that have taken hundreds of billions of people away from them. [[Bangoné Borbély Ildikó: And do you believe it?]] [[9.20]] However - and this shadow, because it's a good news, it's good news, and all the citizens of Hungary are happy about it - we have cleared the Hungarian financial system from the robbers, the fraudulently robberies brokerage companies and financial institutions. The shadow, ladies and gentlemen, is from the fact that this activity of the Hungarian National Bank, which exposes brokerage fraud, fits into a series of scenarios. This is in line with the failure of a government and central bank on the Budapest Embassy of a large NATO Alliance country, which started in autumn 2014. Dear Parliament, Mr President, I have to say that, of course, the Hungarian National Bank would have found fraudulent brokerage companies, since Vice-President Windisch and his team were firmly and creatively present with a new methodology. But it doesn't matter when we found these fraudulent brokerage companies. 10-15 years of theft is not all the same that we found it in January-February-March or maybe in May. Why did we find him in January-February-March? Because someone wanted to use the Hungarian National Bank to create a bank panic in Hungary by April 2015. This bank panic also occurred. It took four hours in four cities. We'd say it's not much. But it was a shock - once again - that, on the basis of a secret service and military scenario, some of our allies and friends wanted to use the Hungarian National Bank to overthrow the government. This is a very heavy shadow, very dark shadow, deep gray shadow, no shade, only one shade: the dark. Ladies and Gentlemen, However, according to the mandate of the National Bank of Hungary, it worked in such a way as to ensure price stability, financial stability and support for government economic policy. We exposed the brokerage companies on time. Fifteen months after the integration of the central bank and supervision, we discovered a series of frauds of 10-15 years. The central bank is not responsible, but the central bank has exposed the fraud. Once again: January-February-March, because they helped the central bank to have bank panic in Hungary in time, in April. But it wasn't; it was four hours, because the Hungarian people, the Hungarian citizens - thanks to the Hungarian families for this - remained sober, and the alliance between the central bank and the government worked. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Members, Ladies and Congressmen, The very significant success of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank in 2015 is therefore essentially linked to the economic policy turn in 2010 and the monetary policy turn since March 2013. But I cannot hide it and it would be wrong not to mention that this series of successes of the Hungarian National Bank is not due to one person, not to the President, not even to the other three persons, the Vice-Presidents and not to the Board of Directors, but to 1,400 highly qualified, prepared and very committed central bank staff. The Hungarian state has a very good team. This team is operating in the Hungarian National Bank, and I can assure you that anyone would at any time oppose financial stability in Hungary, the Hungarian central bank, as it did in spring 2015, will stand up for Hungary and, on behalf of the state, will stop such actions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-22-2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I now give the floor to Mr Bánki Erik, rapporteur for the Economic Committee, rapporteur for the proposal for a decision, also within a 30-minute time frame.
u2017-02-22-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We are discussing a very important agenda today, because, as it was clear from the report of the President of the Central Bank, the success of the central bank does not in itself qualify the central bank, but the Hungarian State, the government policy that, by the way, the Hungarian National Bank is doing in cooperation with the Hungarian government, which is always responsible, so that the indicators of the Hungarian economy can develop at the best possible level, so that the functioning of public finances is characterised by adequate financial stability and that we can achieve the best possible results in order to strengthen the standard of living of the population. Of course, the Economic Committee discussed the report and business report of the Hungarian National Bank for the year 2015 and presented a proposal for a resolution to this House. Obviously, the function of Parliament is not only legislation, but also control. Part of this process is that several institutions, including the central bank, are supervised by the Hungarian Parliament, since the functioning of the central bank must be independent of the government. It is for the Parliament to report, and the Hungarian Parliament has given the Economic Committee the right to carry out this inspection. It is worth recalling that the central bank, as Mr President mentioned, performed its three statutory tasks exemplary in 2015, so that the central bank has done its best to maintain price stability, to ensure financial stability and to support economic policy. Let us first look at price stability, ladies and gentlemen. If you look at the figures, you can see that inflation in 2015 was below 1 percent. And this was no longer the first year, which was achieved so low, but in the third year in a row there was virtually zero inflation, which we must not forget, fellow Members, is the tax of the poor, because it is the most positive of the most vulnerable, the most difficult, because they are able to make purchases and live on an ever-increasing level of living. If we look at financial stability, we can safely say that in 2015 we closed a strong year. A real breakthrough has been made, which Mr President has also talked about in his report, that the Supervisory Authority of Financial Institutions has been under the control of the Central Bank, and that has helped to detect a series of tens of years of fraud that has strengthened confidence in banks on the one hand, as he has set an example and set an example in terms of accountability and, on the other hand, has drawn attention to the vulnerability of the financial system, and accordingly, legislation and legislation have been able to create new regulations that will minimise further and we hope to exclude similar abuses in the Hungarian financial world. Moreover, it is also very important to note that financial stability, which has also strengthened in line with the various decisions of the central bank, has contributed significantly to the growth of the economic performance of 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us look at the results that the central bank has achieved in supporting economic policy, how much it contributed to the outstanding increase in the performance of the Hungarian economy by 3.4 percent in 2015. As Mr President also pointed out in his report, half of this 3.4 percent increase in GDP was taken by the measures taken by the central bank itself this year. I think it is very important that the central bank has been able to respond well to the external market and external processes that have had a major impact on the economic policies of Europe, including the Central European countries. We would not have been able to achieve such success; the Hungarian economic model, which was also named by Mr President, which was launched as Minister of Economic Affairs in 2010, would not have been able to produce such results if there had not been such good cooperation between the central bank and the government. Many steps have been taken by the central bank, which the opposition and some market analysts have said is too risky. [[9.30]] Let us recall the interest reduction policy that we have achieved with Mr President's leadership and his proposal with his step-by-step decisions by the Monetary Council. These decisions can, of course, be criticised from the outside. Those who have little faith, do not believe in themselves, do not believe in the power that Hungary represents, tend to underestimate. This is when I think of Churchill's saying, who said that the optimist sees opportunities in every emergency, and the pessimist is looking for danger in every possibility. I am very pleased that the management of the central bank has also been supported by appropriate optimism in these decisions. This is why they have been able to achieve economic success through courageous, otherwise unexpected steps. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Allow me to highlight a few things from the report, in particular those which were supported by both the Fidesz and the KDNP faction and representatives of the Economic Commission, and have been mentioned in the debate. I have already talked about the interest rate reduction programme, which led to a total reduction of 75 basis points in 2015 to 1.35 percent of the central bank base rate. The National Bank has also reviewed the previous inflation targets, which, by the way, set a 3 per cent target for the economy, which is beneficial for economic growth, but has used sufficient flexibility in this area. It has already been included in its plans for the years 2016 and 2017. A very important incentive was the growth credit programme, whose balance sheet, I think, was clearly impressive. I remember the critical voices that were said in the introduction of the programme, primarily by opposition representatives and by some market players, that this model is inoperable, that the central bank will give this loan to businesses through financial intermediaries who will not be able to live with it, a series of bankruptcies will occur, and the money will disappear hand in hand. Ladies and gentlemen, It wasn't like that. The 3.5 percent economic growth that was achieved in 2015 and the dynamism that allowed us to achieve 2 percent economic growth in 2016 with the average of the European Union and the average of the euro area being achieved at a lower level, I think is largely due to the growth credit programme. In the framework of this programme, 31 thousand companies were financed at a time when it was otherwise very difficult to obtain loans under market conditions. This is well demonstrated by the fact that banks, commercial banks, have shown a downward trend. A total of HUF 2126 billion has been allocated, which is another very significant number. To show my fellow Members what volume we are talking about, the HUF 2100 billion is roughly equivalent to EUR 7 billion of credit at the time, at the rate of that time. I was still a member of the European Parliament when we discussed the economic recovery programme for the 2014-2020 development cycle, where President Barroso then announced with great pride that, for the first time in the history of the European Union, a programme of economic incentives for small and medium-sized enterprises, a credit programme that is practically equivalent to the growth credit programme, but now hold on to it, fellow Members: EUR 4 billion for 28 countries at EU level. It is therefore necessary to highlight the courage and foresight that, not only in small items, but not only to show the central bank that, yes, it is launching a loan programme to boost the SME sector and to help economic growth, but also to fund these businesses with a serious contribution of EUR 7 billion. As a result, tens of thousands of Hungarian families gained better living conditions. Another very important thing to highlight is the mention of the central bank activity relating to the clearing of consumer foreign exchange loans started in autumn 2014 and conducted in 2015 and the forinting of consumer foreign currency mortgage loans. In total, the central bank sold EUR 9127 million to credit institutions, of which EUR 1081 million was paid in connection with the accounts and EUR 8046 million in connection with the forinting. I believe that I do not have to say this in this House separately, and that all my fellow Members know precisely that it has freed 1 million 200 thousand families from foreign exchange lending. I also think it is important to emphasise, ladies and gentlemen, that in 2015 the vulnerability of the domestic financial system was significantly reduced. Accounting and forinting managed effectively to address the systemic risk arising from retail foreign exchange loans. The Bank's self-financing programme significantly reduced the external vulnerability of the country's funding. As Mr President said, the ratio of foreign exchange loans in government debt decreased to 31 percent, which shows, on the one hand, that there is a demand for domestic paper, on the other hand, and we should be pleased to note that we have now reached the point that virtually all of these sovereign debt are recorded by the domestic population and the domestic institutional system and by domestic businesses. This shows strong confidence in the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian state. As regards the audit, the report also shows that the Hungarian National Bank carried out prudential supervision of a total of 1744 institutions at the end of 2015, carried out 121 investigations during the year and launched 45 market surveillance investigations. During this period, 80 prudential investigations and 25 market surveillance investigations were closed. In doing so, it also fulfilled its statutory obligations and, moreover, those set out in the annual supervisory plan. On behalf of the Group, Mr President, we also welcome the consumer protection activity of the National Bank, which was determined in 2015 by extraordinary tasks relating to clearing and treaty amendment. Once again, I think that we have seen a clear, transparent and clear system, steps taken by the Central Bank for the benefit of the Hungarian population, the Hungarian citizens. Several outstanding events in the development of domestic financial infrastructure took place in 2015, which is something we must remember. From September 7, 2015, the Hungarian National Bank and Giro Zrt. are very important to facilitate everyday life. as a result of its cooperation, the number of settlement cycles of transfers has increased from 5 to 10. As a result, the execution of the transfers has also accelerated. Everyone could have sensed this, and I think that it is beneficial for everyone that transfers do not have to wait days, as in the previous period. The special pleasure that Mr President indicated at the Commission hearing is that this speed will continue to increase in the future and that we will be able to convert to virtually immediate transfers. So the moment someone started the transfer from their bank account, it's going to appear in the partner's account. What is clear from the report, ladies and gentlemen, is that while the former, Gyurcsány-friendly central bank management, despite loss-making management, has found itself obscenely high salaries, and there has never otherwise been any consequences for how and how the central bank manages, the current central bank, for the first time in the history of the last decade, has been able to pay dividends. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, according to the Central Bank Act, the losses of the central bank must be financed by Hungarian public finances, the Hungarian budget. When György Matolcsy took over the management of the central bank at the time of the appointment of the central bank, it was the year that HUF 203 billion of losses were planned for the central bank's operation. That is, ladies and gentlemen, HUF 203 billion should have been transferred to the Hungarian budget in order to keep the central bank operational. Compared to this, and I would like to congratulate not only Mr President but all his colleagues, because it was obviously not a one-man business, and by the end of the year it was achieved that, not only did he not have to pay a penny of public finances to the central bank, but the central bank was able to operate profitablely at the end of the first year. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that, when we set targets and think in scale, that optimistic attitude can lead to outstanding results that the central bank could achieve in 2015. So for my part and for the Fideszes-KDNP representatives of the Economic Commission, I can only tell you, Mr President, that we wish you a similarly successful and successful year for 2017. I am sure that this cooperation that has developed between the management of the central bank and the Hungarian government, the goals that have been set jointly in the area of economic development and economic recovery, for all Hungarian citizens, for everyone in their own individual lives, will bring significant results and significant progress. As a result, we can achieve that every year Hungarian families live in better conditions, and every year every Hungarian citizen can make one move forward. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, we support the adoption of the resolution proposal before this House. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]] [[9.40]]
u2017-02-22-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present his position during the debate. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: It's not that bad! Is anyone even here?]] Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Erik Bánki, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-02-22-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I am in an easy position because, as Chairman of the Economic Committee, the position of the Committee was, in fact, the position of the majority of the Committee's fractions, Fidesz and KDNP. In this sense, the speaker's speech, which I said as a committee opinion, is in fact one-on-one with the position of the Fidesz faction. Therefore, I do not wish to go further and I do not want to waste my fellow Members' time. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: President Matolcsy has already left!]] I would just like to confirm that, as has been the case so far, the Fidesz Group is determined to support the government's economic policy objectives. I think that, looking back over the past period, our results are clearly visible, because, if we look at them, we were talking about the 2015 report, the economic implications of which will, of course, be felt both in 2016 and in 2017. However, only if we look at the 2016 economic indicators, it is clear that the government was able to meet its economic policy objectives in 2016 without exception. Thanks to this, as promised in the elections, every year we reduce the lack of public finances. This was reduced to 74 percent in December 2016. Let us not forget that in 2010, when we started, this indicator was well above 80 percent. Let us not forget that in 2016 we were able to reduce the deficit of public finances by HUF 388 billion compared to 2015, which obviously would not have happened if there had not been a well-functioning monetary policy in 2015 and there was no government economic policy that had parliamentary support behind it. We could not have achieved either, ladies and gentlemen, that in 2016, as I have already said, we were able to exceed the average of the European Union and the euro zone with a 2 percent increase in GDP. Let us not forget that our external trade indicators have also been impressive, as we have been able to close 2016 with an external trade surplus of EUR 10 billion, and we can also be proud to say that we have also been able to move forward in terms of job creation. We wouldn't have been able to do that if the Hungarian economy hadn't expanded. By the end of 2016, unemployment was reduced to 4.4 percent. Let us not forget that this was also 11 percent when we took over government. We have been able to create 700,000 new jobs over the last seven years. We're doing absolutely well on time. Let us also note here that in 2010, when the Hungarian Government announced its intention to create 1 million new jobs in the next ten years, this objective was welcomed by a lively and loud smile on the opposition side. What I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, is that we are doing very well in this area, because we have fulfilled our commitment on a pro rata basis. Let us not forget that 460,000 of these 700 000 jobs have been created by the market itself, so that today, a total of 207 thousand unemployed people are registered in Hungary without 68 thousand jobs being filled. I think that the success of our economic policy is not questionable. We were able to achieve a net wage increase in 2016, which is above 10%, and we were able to conclude an agreement with employers and trade unions that will bring an unprecedented increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage in 2017 and 2018. However, the market is obviously responding to this, and we expect a general net wage increase of over 10 per cent by 2017, which indicates that people are living better in Hungary, and that the wage catch-up programme that we also promised in 2010 that we would do everything possible to bring Hungarian workers to the European wage level as quickly as possible would have been a huge step forward. This would not have been possible if there had not been a successful monetary policy, so on behalf of the Fidesz faction, I would also like to thank Vice-President and the full management and staff of the central bank for the responsible and victimful work they did in 2015. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-02-22-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The MSZP group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. They have a total timeframe of 30 minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Burány.
u2017-02-22-7	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr. Vice President, Let us begin immediately by saying that György Matolcsy is consistent in one respect: just as he followed this year, he did not listen to the lead speakers of the factions in his report on the activities of the Hungarian National Bank, leaving immediately after his expozee, passing on further work to Mr.Vice President and trusting him. This is unprecedented! In the case of the government, we could also get used to the fact that the ministers of state are replacing ministers - in the case of a law factory this is still acceptable - but also the government has to keep up with the practice that if there is a more important topic in the Parliament, namely, let us say, the budget is not usually presented by the Secretary of State, but by the Minister, and it is appropriate to wait for the first round after the expo, at least to face the position of the various factions in person and, where appropriate, its criticism. Dear House, György Matolcsy was given a free hand to run the central bank, and, as we have seen in recent years, the free hand policy has become a free robbery in the Hungarian National Bank. If we look at the activities of the Hungarian National Bank over the past few years, we find that instead of the daily news about monetary policy, the daily news is about real estate development, it is about the art trade, it is about special wage catching up programmes, it is about specific educational development activities. That's not what the news should be about. Let's look at the pay-receiving program right away. President György Matolcsy, we thought he was following the proposals of the MSZP, since the MSZP faction has consistently urged Hungary's programme of wage catch-up, but he has completely misunderstood the main course. While the MSZP considers that the catch-up should be started and implemented primarily in the case of low-income earners, the central bank, led by György Matolcsy, thought that this should start over and meant the catch-up programme itself. He also misunderstood professional requirements in the area of education development. After the PISA report was published and it turned out that there are serious problems in Hungarian public education, and unfortunately, we also need to know more and more problems and problems in higher education, one would think that if the Hungarian National Bank started an education development programme, it would try to help these conditions in the face of these problems, but György Matolcsy misunderstood this too. The policy of education development of the central bank led by György Matolcsy is essentially exhausting in promoting the economic views of György Matolcsy with good, expensive money. If we continue on the news, we can see that as the successor of the former IKKs today, a real estate trader, the Hungarian National Bank is becoming a real estate management company, it has started a castle purchase program that is quite simply unprecedented in the history of the Hungarian National Bank. And speaking of castles, we obviously need furniture, and even though this is not the primary goal of the Hungarian National Bank, it has started an art dealer program that thins its mates, any auction house in the world could envy this activity. [[9.50]] But how did you get the money for this? 'Cause it's okay -- it's not okay to waste that much money, but I need money to steal it. György Matolcsy made this money as a former minister, partly as President of the Hungarian National Bank by weakening the forint. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank, which should be one of the most important tasks of protecting the forint, consistently serves as a partner for the government in the forint weakening action that has been taking place since 2010, which means that Hungarians' money is worth much less in the international market today than it was in 2010. As a result, the particular situation arose that the Hungarian National Bank generated hundreds of billions of forints of profits from this forint weakening, which was paid by the people, and this profit was largely squandered. Let's start with a little more detail. What did free-hand politics mean? György Matolcsy was bestowed by the Fidesz majority parliament with a situation where he operated for more than a year without a supervisory board. Today, the laws provide for the operation of the Supervisory Board at the Hungarian National Bank. In addition, after a year, when this situation was abolished, they did not return to the previous practice, in which Parliament's fractions, three opposition groups could send experts to the Supervisory Board, changing the unwritten rules of the game, ensuring that Ferenc Pappsák was one of the most notorious Fidesz Members of Parliament and former mayor of the Supervisory Board of the National Bank of Hungary, and that the number of the three former experts delegated by opposition parties was reduced on an entirely arbitrary basis. Thus, there was no and there is no strong supervisory board at the moment, which could significantly squander the waste of money wasted by the Hungarian National Bank. In the spirit of the free hand policy, György Matolcsy decided to establish foundations with the Hungarian National Bank. The purpose of the construction was to make public money pumped into foundations - to quote the words of Fidesz MEP Erik Bánki - so to speak - lose the nature of public money, so to speak, no longer have to be accounted for, and it is safe to spend without a neck on anything, without having to give an account before the public or Parliament. Well, they were wrong about that, because, on the one hand, the Hungarian National Bank was bound by final court judgments to release data on foundational spending, and when Fidesz tried to guarantee in a bill that the lack of transparency of public funds would be permanent with the Hungarian National Bank and the Foundations, even the Constitutional Court said no to that - this was already the case for this Constitutional Court - which filled the vast majority of the Constitutional Court with loyal people who were loyal to it. If you are looking at the pay-receiving program, the Hungarian National Bank has also misunderstood something very, very much here. While the MSZP has been demanding an increase in the salary of small-money people for years, the Hungarian National Bank has decided not to participate in this pay-receiving program, but has drastically increased salaries among its own leaders. This is how the wife of the Attorney General working at the Hungarian National Bank could receive more than HUF 5 million in salary, and, by changing the laws, the central bank management can now bring home millions of monthly salaries; despite the fact that the government started in 2010 with these salaries being limited. I have already talked about the specifics of the education development programme, but it is unprecedented, let me mention that, let me say, the volume "The Balance and Growth" to promote the views of György Matolcsy was financed with foundation money, and similarly, the content of the "Home and Global Economic and Financial Trends" was ordered from hundreds of millions of forints. But all this money is dwarf compared to the real estate development program. Speaking of real estate development, of course, don't think of any panel apartments, but of castles and valuable properties. Just a few of them: Svábhegy villa for about a billion forints; in the Castle District of Buda, on Úri Street, high value real estate is also for a billion forints; at the end of October 2010, the FBI foundations buy new real estates for more than seven billion forints. But they also bought a resort - and I am not only talking about the Tiszaroff castle hotel - and they also bought the MÁV resort in Balatonkenese for over a billion forints. In fact, this area belongs to Balatonakarattya. By the way: As an independent candidate in 2014, György Matolcsy's wife won the election and became mayor. I'd like to make a detour here, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to make it clear that I do not want anyone's personal life, we do not want to deal with it, but I do wish that private life would be in public money, in serious taxpayers' forints. The fact that we can learn about the marriage that seemed solid at the time is that György Matolcsy, through the central bank he runs in the village where his wife is mayor, buys a high-value resort, but it is more than just a lot. By the way, we also learned about the crisis of this marriage from the fact that the Hungarian National Bank employs György Matolcsy's new partner for serious public money. Personally, we wish the President of the Central Bank a lot of happiness, but we regret that this happiness costs taxpayers money. That's what's public, you have to talk about it, all the rest is private. Ladies and Gentlemen, There's one thing I need to remember. Although, according to the item on the agenda, we are discussing the 2015 annual report of the Hungarian National Bank, but the lead speaker before me, Mr Erik Bánki, interpreted this proposal in a broader way in time and in other contexts, and also spoke about the increase in the minimum wage in 2017. How this is related to the central bank, of course, we may be able to explain it further, but since we are talking about wage development, let me state that the biggest winner of this wage development is the government. The consequence of this wage development is that employees, employees who earn minimum wages cannot make a living in Hungary from this net minimum wage, even this increased minimum wage is below the minimum wage, but in an international comparison, the Hungarian State collects the same amount of taxes from the employee and the employer in Europe, in an unprecedented way, and sometimes collects more taxes than net salaries. If you look at minimum wages, you look at the guaranteed minimum wage, and you look at their taxes, the taxes and contributions that employees pay, and you add the taxes and contributions that employers pay, you will find that the state collects at least as much tax as the employee takes home, who otherwise cannot make a living on this income. Therefore, we cannot fully support this wage development. We had several suggestions. In particular, we called for a reduction in the minimum wage, which does not destroy small entrepreneurs, while at the same time the worker can bring home more money that Fidesz has proposed. Dear House, There is much time to talk about how the Magyar Nemzeti Bank wastes public money in its various programmes. The time available for this would probably be short, and on the basis of the decision of the MSZP, I would like to indicate that in a divided lead vocal doubles, my fellow Member, Mr László Szakács, will say the rest. Thank you.
u2017-02-22-8	Thank you, Congressman Burány. Then I give the floor to Congressman László Szakács.
u2017-02-22-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have now heard an expo, and I will come back to it later, which, by the way, quoted the speeches of the 1 May 1950s a little better than the report of a responsible leader on the economic situation of Hungary. As my colleague Sándor Burány said, of course, what is important is what President Matolcsy said, who - I would only signal to the minutes - left the House at 9:40 a.m. on the agenda on him, which he should sit through once a year. [[10.00]] President Matolcsy, of course, talked about a lot of things, but he did not talk about a lot of things. He did not mention how what we have remembered today is that we have finally succeeded in having European wages in a Hungarian European institution. This applies only to the National Bank in Hungary today. Here, there are European wages, a salary of five million; of course, foreign trips are paid, sometimes guests can be brought there, but most importantly, to whom people are more closely linked, he travels most often with the President, with Hungarian public money. There are European wages here. With regard to the year 2015, Mr Vice-President, we should not talk about the foundations in which you have pumped more than HUF 260 billion, and in relation to 2015 you should talk about this because it was a challenging year for you. You were never right. You said that the money that got there had lost the nature of the public money. Then it turned out that you were wrong, you didn't lose the nature of the public money, you had a court ruling that you made a mistake, you were wrong, you were stupid, what you said, so you had to publish all the papers. Then you wanted to change the law so that the assets of these foundations could really be encrypted, really lost the nature of the public money, really nobody could see it. Then the Constitutional Court said that no, you are wrong, you know this wrong, this is public money, it will remain public money, and this legislation will not be adopted by Parliament, because it is contrary to the provisions of the Fundamental Law, its spirit; otherwise, I think it is also a great deal of democracy, but the Constitutional Court has well justified this. In the same year, you know, when these foundations were shopping, not only did they move into real estate, buy palaces, and once they got there, they were quickly renovated, and they spent a lot of money on it. You said that these foundations, not managing public funds, should not have been subject to a public procurement procedure. You're wrong! You were wrong, you should have conducted a public procurement procedure, these funds should have been used transparently by the foundation, the Hungarian National Bank... - and for many other purposes, but you have chosen this and have not carried out procurement procedures. That's what the Public Procurement Tribunal has established, and you've been condemned. I'm not talking about it in the report, at least I'm saying, according to your taste, that we've learned from this period, we've learned from the time when the Constitutional Court, the Curia and the Public Procurement Tribunal gave us a lesson, and we've learned how to manage public money transparently, transparently, that's not to be seen, I think that's not a mistake, that's hubris, because you may still believe that you can do that. You can't do it, you have a lot of paperwork on this. If we put these things side by side, put them together that you have finally managed to create a European payroll program, and at least you are already making good money, the majority of Hungarians are not, but at least you are already earning very well, are in luxurious palaces and otherwise buying a lot of art, then you can say that the Hungarian National Bank has actually caught up with the European national banks. They are right, because in terms of luxury, they have reached the level that countries that are much richer than us can afford. We can't afford to have 4 million people living under the minimum living standards, so he goes to a urizing elite palaces to work, spends his days in palaces, and of course everyone takes his closest colleague to his heart to the farthest points of travel. The president was talking about the broker scandals. Actually, that was the part of his speech that best quoted the May 1st of the 1950s. If we understand correctly, Mr Vice-President, the conqueror is threatening Hungary, who also has an embassy in Hungary. I thought of the Russians for a moment, but then he said that he was a NATO member, said the President of the Hungarian National Bank, that this country is a NATO member, so this conqueror is probably our ally who tried to overthrow the Hungarian central bank, the Hungarian government, and if I remember correctly, as the President said, perhaps even tried to overthrow the banking system. Mr. Vice President. Then I ask you, if György Matolcsy has not broken off with his habits and left us to argue about him, then you should break up with his habits, participate in the debate, and tell us that the Csaba Tarsoly, who, in front of you, has issued some HUF 160 billion more unfunded bonds in his company Quaestor, Csaba Tarsoly, who is connected with the governing parties, Fidesz, on behalf of which foreign embassy Csaba Tarsoly has been conjuring against the financial stability of the Republic of Hungary. Here, answer that, please. Which foreign country agent is Csaba Tarsoly? Who does he work for? The president also told me that you have uncovered this 15-year fraud. Mr. Vice President. What have you discovered? You didn't expose anything. Now, either foreigners have been conspiring with Csaba Tarsoly, who is connected to you with a thousand threads, or you have wanted to keep Csaba Tarsoly in position as a foreign agent in the last 15 years, or what is most likely to be much closer to reality: you have not exposed anything, it fell on you. Exactly the day before the second anniversary of the DRB scandal, you discovered it! If anyone was surprised here, it was you! You didn't expose anything in the world. If there had been any method that would have allowed this to be exposed, it could have been prevented, then you should have used it. Mr. Vice President. If your president, President Matolcsy, is in this mistake, at least don't be you. Your job is not to expose them. Your job is to prevent it. You're not a surveillance camera, you're not recording the crime, you're preventing it. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's right! Exactly.]] Then let's also ask, and please, answer this question: how many times since 2010 the DRB has been in the control plans of the Hungarian National Bank, how many times Buda-Cash has appeared, how many times Quaestor has appeared. How many times? ! Did they go there? Have you checked? What do you got? Did you find it all right? All we know is that Vice President László Windisch will sign on 15 October 2014 that he can issue Quaestor bonds. There's an administrative act, so you know, you see. What a method they followed when they were just outside the Quaestor, and two months later, it collapsed, leaving 220 billion forints worth of damage, which wasn't the state's money, saving little people. And you're not doing anything to get these people their money back. But more serious than that, you didn't do anything to make sure these little people's investments didn't go away, unless you were the ones in front of them - and maybe you thought it was okay? [[10.10]] Mr Vice President, there is a list of over 330 names on it, including state companies, including individuals who took their money from Quaestor on 9 and 10 March. At the time when the Economic Committee had already met here, when László Windisch had his round eyes, and even his voice was grey, he said what a scandal there was; here the Economic Committee meets on the 9th in the case of DRB and Buda-Cash, on the 10th in the case of Quaestor, you still allow more than 330 companies and private people to free the Quaestor from its last HUF 6.5 billion. Did you know about this? Did it happen in front of you? Who was that list for? Who made the list? Is it for you? Because actually, you know, Mr. Vice President, the biggest problem is I don't know when it is, if you knew about it, or if you didn't. Because if this list is made for you, then you've simply watched how small people's money, small investors' money are unpacked by certain beneficiaries, selected from most of the Quaestor's offices; the last 6.5 billion forints. You guys were watching this. At the time, you were interested in something else, not keeping this company standing. László Windisch tells us that on March 9th your men are already out at Quaestor. Well, they were there, Mr. Vice President, and it was still possible to get them out of there on 10 March, when they had already blocked me out, even when it was possible to withdraw money? If you knew about this, there's a bigger problem if the Hungarian National Bank didn't know about it first. Here, the Economic Committee is already meeting, looking for a solution, the committee is listening to the Vice-President of the Hungarian National Bank, who, if you like, makes detailed statements of fact, will tell us what they are doing in this case, and in the meantime, you may not have known that 32,000 little people are being disincentived? If we still put aside that wherever the genesis of this case was, let this be what the President said in his speech on 1 May, that foreign agents had left gold bars sewn in guerrilla skins under the Danube, and so the agents were able to pay for it - and then I look forward to Tarsoly's reply to which country he worked - let us think about why, then, you too, the self-created insolvencyist, the PSFN, which is the only owner of the Hungarian National Bank, did not help you to get Quaestor's assets involved in the liquidation. You're watching the Quaestor victims get a penny of Quaestor's assets so far. Not a penny! They are watching the property of Quaestor, which is not a small plot worth a hundred billion in Budapest, where you are trying to design an Olympics, being moved from one company to another. This is your one-eyed executor, which you are the owners of, watching and not involving the wealth in the indemnification in which I believe that everyone would have the right to have their fair share back. Who are you saving this money for, Mr. Vice President? I believe that these are the issues that have made 2015 so difficult; that for you, I am not nervous, you are well paid, but also for those who have lost their money because you have not paid attention, for those who have waited for the solution from you, but have waited in vain for the solution because you - once again, Mr Vice-President, and perhaps for the future - are not to be exposed, you are to prevent these actions. To expose, investigate, convict people, the police, the prosecutor's office, and the court. Your job is to set up a control system, set up a methodology, train people who are able not to catch these things, but to prevent people's money from being safe. Today, because of you, the Hungarian people's money is not safe. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2017-02-22-10	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman István Hollik, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2017-02-22-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am from the world of opposition demagogy or to be fairer - because my better colleagues have not spoken yet - I would return from the dream world of socialist demagogy to the real world. President Matolcsy spoke about a very strong monetary turnaround in 2013 and presented the results of this monetary turnaround in 2015. But in order to be able to actually perceive or demonstrate the significance of this monetary turn of events, we need to look at what the former monetary central bank policy was like, we need to confront it, see how the previous monetary policy has done. And if we do that, I think that if we know the results of what Mr President has said here, we will manage them in place. To do this, I think it is worth going back to 2012, because it was the last year when it was the central bank management appointed by the socialists, and we can see that in 2012 there was still a base rate of almost 6 per cent in Hungary, despite the fact that if we looked around at the basic rates of central bank in the world at that time, we can see that, and now we have to think not only of the Fed, which started to radically reduce the central bank base rate several years ago, and in fact took the base rate to zero in 2012, but also European countries have done the same, the Hungarian central bank, as if it had been frozen and did not feel it, could not have seen the international trends that had already taken place in the world, and therefore did not touch it. He did so by referring to the fact that the market could not bear it, or referred to it as a central bank, as a result of which the exchange rate against the euro would be lost so that the central bank could not have an exchange rate target. So the base rate shows that something in monetary policy was working badly at the time. But if we look at the results achieved by the Hungarian National Bank in 2012, then we can see that in 2012 the central bank, in contrast to the years after the monetary revolution, generated a loss of 40 billion, which was to be paid to the Hungarian National Bank by the Hungarian budget in an even more difficult global economy or budgetary situation, as it produced losses. It can therefore be said that, in 2012, none of the three basic central bank tasks listed by the Central Bank Act could be fulfilled by the central bank management appointed by the Socialists. There was no price stability, no financial stability. If we recall, just in 2012, there was a very strong speculation on the financial market against Hungary, which led the Hungarian state and the financial situation of the Hungarian state to the point of almost bankrupting it. Obviously, there was a need for very effective economic policy interventions here, too, in order to avoid this. Thus, the central bank did not achieve the basic objective of financial stability at that time, and it is quite clear that the then central bank management did not, in fact, support the law, government economic policy. [[10.20]] He did this anyway, so that if we look at the other foot of economic policy, fiscal policy, then we can see that the budget deficit had been consolidated by the government, there was a budget deficit of less than 2 percent in 2012, employment has already increased. So, overall, we can say that the state's finances, as far as the budget is concerned, have been corrected by the government. What's the consequence? I think what we have seen, then, is that the government has done its own economic policy while the central bank management appointed by the socialists in 2012 failed to do so, and we must even say, knowing the facts and seeing these numbers and processes, that it deliberately braked. It can also be said - I would like to give an example - that the wheel of the car was sitting at the wheel in 2012, who did his job, driving the car straight at the right speed, while the central bank driver, sitting in the passenger seat, reached into it and pulled on the hand brake. That's what happened in 2012. Then came the turn of the central bank, which was also discussed by the President of the Central Bank. As a result, we can say that the central bank is now fulfilling all three of its statutory tasks and objectives. There was price stability - we are talking about the year 2015 - inflation was, if I remember correctly, minus 0.1 percent. In fact, prices have decreased to a minimum, rather than rising, i.e. the task of price stability has been fulfilled by the central bank. Financial stability was partly preserved by the then central bank management and partly created. It is quite clear that central bank programmes have effectively and effectively supported government economic policy, contributed to economic growth by around 1 percent in proportion to GDP, and have made the functioning of the state more stable, economic policy and, as appropriate, also contributed to employment growth. I would not tell you, because Mr President and my fellow Member Erik Bánki have already talked about these instruments. On the one hand, this is the reduction of the base rate, which was reduced to 1.35 per cent in 2015. Once again, this was 5.5 percent in 2012, after the monetary turn of events, the central bank led by György Matolcsy reduced the central bank's base rate by half in one year, and interestingly, the fears that the former central bank's management constantly expressed were not justified, because otherwise the euro exchange rate did not go away and had no negative impact on the market, and rather only had positive effects on the base rate reduction. The other instrument, with which the central bank has contributed to supporting government economic policy, is the growth credit programme. I think this has clearly helped to get the Hungarian economy out of the state of full credit dehydration. It has already been said that 31,000 micro, small and medium-sized enterprises benefited from the growth credit programme until 2015. Since then, this number has increased significantly, now, I think it's gone up to almost 40,000. Overall, we can say that the SME sector has received a loan of HUF 2100 billion. It can be said that the basic interest rate reduction and the growth loan programme together in 2015, as already in the previous years, Hungarian economic growth, Hungarian GDP growth, gave about half of it, so the central bank was able to contribute. Here it is also worth mentioning the self-financing programme mentioned by President Matolcsy. For example, I think that this monetary instrument has been completely lacking in the toolbox of former central bank management. The former central bank management did not motivate and encourage banks to buy Hungarian government bonds. The current central bank management has done so, thus reducing the financing of government debt by HUF 300 billion in 13-14-15. In part, this also resulted in a significant reduction in the foreign exchange ratio within the sovereign debt. This is also a serious value of the work carried out in 2015. The president was talking about custody. I think the results here speak for themselves. We've managed to clean up the financial sector from companies that have been operating in a crooked way. Not least in addition to the fact that the central bank was able to increase its profit margin in 2015, it was able to pay a dividend of HUF 50 billion to the budget. Just to be clear, that's about what the government spent on the Elisabeth vouchers that pensioners received at the end of last year. I think this is a significant contribution from the central bank. On behalf of the KDNP fraction, I would also like to thank the central bank for its management. I would encourage central bank management to continue to show such cooperative central bank operations and support government economic policy in the coming years. We will therefore support and adopt the proposal for a decision before us. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-02-22-12	Thank you, Congressman István Hollik. The Jobbik Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman János Volner, Head of the Group.
u2017-02-22-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I salute my fellow Members and the public head of the Central Bank. President György Matolcsy said in his opinion that there is a very good professional team at the Hungarian National Bank. Indeed, in the background apparatus, and in some leading positions, we can find excellent experts at the central bank, even if there are legitimate objections on the part of some people about the professional skills of the MNB. Whom, for example, do I consider to be prepared and good experts? For example, we can identify Mr Ferenc Gerhardt as a professional banker, he was also a member of the Monetary Council in 2015. János Cinkotai is the best-known authority in Hungarian inflation research. I myself consider him to be my master, and I have learned a great deal from his studies, so I consider him to be such a man. Mr. Gustáv Báger, who also reads the specialized press, the sights in which Mr. Báger regularly published, I believe that his writings were for the growth and upbuilding of all of us. I also think of him as a good expert on my part, although, in any case, legitimate objections are worth more than the central bank. I complain that neither the Economic Committee has discussed the information of the Supervisory Board nor has it come before Parliament, although it would also be important to discuss it here in plenary, since it is the responsibility of the Supervisory Board to carry out and report on the activities of the Central Bank. I think it would be important for the Parliament to address this issue. It is important to note that the owner of the Hungarian National Bank - in parentheses: its shareholder - is the Hungarian State itself, in which the Minister for Public Finance, in which case Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, should exercise ownership rights. In fact, in Hungary a hungaricum-like situation arose with the Hungarian National Bank, as the ownership rights are actually exercised by the management itself, and Fidesz created a central bank law that effectively alienated the activities of the central bank from the owner, from the Hungarian State itself, and the Minister of National Economy representing ownership rights does not have any substantive say in this. We must establish that the central bank has achieved its primary objective of achieving and maintaining price stability in 2015. That's what he did. Without endangering this objective, the central bank can obviously support the economic policy of the given government, take economic stimulus measures, and the central bank has also tried to comply with this. [[10.30]] The important difference between us and the governing party is how we view the role of the central bank and the economic policy itself. We say that the toolbox for economic policy within a country will be complete if both fiscal policy and monetary policy can be owned by a government with full rights and no external say. This is not the case in Hungary. I note that Jobbik's claim in this regard - because it is not a request, but a legitimate expectation and demand - was formulated by our ancestors already in 1848, when the establishment of the Hungarian National Bank and the creation of its own national bank were regarded as one of the most important endeavours; they knew that the Hungarian National Bank should be in its own hands and should not be dependent on foreign powers. However, Fidesz seems to accept this current situation, and when the Prime Minister himself or Fidesz is in an awkward position to confront the Hungarian National Bank's dependence on the European Union, they will practically start lying, including the Prime Minister. What did Viktor Orbán say on June 15, 2012 in his programme Kossuth Rádió 180 minutes? No one can give instructions to the Hungarian National Bank, including the European Central Bank. So not only can the Hungarian Government not give instructions to the National Bank, but no foreign body can do so for the independence of the National Bank. In these matters, we cannot allow it. My fellow Members, the Prime Minister, has lied on this issue in a persuasive way. Moreover, in accordance with Article 130 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, a clause on the independence of the central bank was included in the Act on the National Bank of Hungary, and at the request of the European Central Bank, a 40-page amendment to the Central Bank Act was made, which also had to be included, as the Central Bank Act itself states at the very beginning that the European Central Bank can give instructions to the National Bank of Hungary. So what the Prime Minister said was a clear and easy lie to prove. For political reasons, Viktor Orbán deceived Hungarian public opinion and misled the people, especially the voters who trusted him. It is important to see that the fiscal subsystem of the Hungarian financial system is more or less controlled, which means the tax system, the central budget. We have our objections here, but more or less this can be seen as a controlled subsystem. However, monetary policy in Hungary is practically a state in the state thanks to the Central Bank Act. And in order not to keep these statements in the air, I would therefore like to set the example of two European central banks to my fellow Members, what is the relevant European practice, and where we are now in Hungary. For example, the Bank of England legislation does not have the power at all to establish and operate foundations in the UK central bank. The Deutsche Bundesbank's cost plan, investment plan, fact and plan analysis, as well as its closing account, together with audit reports, will be presented to the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors, which will be received by the Bundestag, and the law, not the management of the relevant central bank, provides for the allocation of profits in the central bank. Since this is not the case in Hungary, but the management actually exercises ownership rights - instead of Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy - the central bank practically does what it wants with hundreds of billions of HUF in profit. And even though the government lied in this, when it claimed that there was nothing strange about this in Europe, I have set two leading European examples of how this practice works, this is general, there is no such freedom anywhere, and there is no such possibility of spending money as in Hungary, nowhere in Europe is this typical. It is very important to talk about the broker scandal, which has been mentioned very little, apart from the comments of opposition representatives. How does the process begin? Buda-Cash flips over, Quaestor goes down, reports a self-destruction, then the MNB's investigation starts at Quaestor, and then it's determined that the brokerage company's state was stolen for a decade and a half, and the clients' money was stolen. The interesting thing was that when László Windisch, Vice-President for Financial Supervision, came to the Economic Committee, he placed proposals that were considered optimal by the government to prevent such a banking and brokerage scandal. And for all five aspects, I drew up my own proposals in the autumn of 2010, and I was able to prove with papers that if the Fidesz and the MSZP Group had not voted off a major coalition in 2010, this brokerage scandal with HUF 300 billion would have been prevented. Ladies and gentlemen. There should have been nothing else to do, to vote in favour of the amendments that I tabled to the Financial Supervision Act at the time. With two dozen amendments that I have tabled, the bank and broker scandal, this amazing damage could have been prevented. But why did they vote him out? What did I ask for in this? For example, I suggested tightening the monitoring methodology, reducing the control cycle for brokerage companies from five years to ensure that the law ensures that these companies are subject to control. There were only two dozen independent brokerage companies operating in Hungary, but they were not able to be checked comprehensively by the central bank for 15 years. It is not worth washing the laundry here, ladies and gentlemen, who led the central bank and previously the State Supervisory Authority of Financial Institutions, made mistakes, made professional mistakes, carelessly carried out their work. It is also important to note that the brokerage scandal could also take place because at Buda-Cash we can basically find good personal interactions and relationships with the socialist government, at Quaestor we can also see good relations with socialist governments and Fidesz, leading government members such as Péter Szijjártó. Quaestor was practically operating as a state in the state, so it could perform its activities in such a way that, for many years, this company was not actually controlled once. And here it is important to talk about something: the investigations at Quaestor found that the public money placed by several state and municipal bodies at the fraudulent brokerage company was involved in open securities transactions. Anyway, the government lied about it because it was denied before, but it can be established that it did. Putting public money in open securities transactions, dear gentlemen? ! Public money normally belongs to state accounts, not brokerage companies. Unfortunately, this was the way Fidesz managed to manage the public wealth it had in mind. It is also important to note that the wealth that was accumulated at Quaestor is currently being transferred to Tiborcz, Viktor Orbán's son-in-law and Lőrinc Mészáros, the business interests of the mayor of Viktor Orbán's birth village. These are the people who are benefiting from the loss and pain of people who have suffered, and their business interests are growing in this way. And what was particularly interesting about the broker scandal? 2010. - Watch the year. - on 8 April, the State Audit Office of Financial Institutions decided that Quaestor was deceiving its customers when it made its bonds appear as if they were covered by the protection of the Deposit Insurance Fund. This was already established in 2010. [[10.40]] Compared to that, we got to the point that in 2015 we managed to steal the money using the same cheating method, stealing all this money, all this money from people. For five years, although known and established the method of fraud, financial supervision has done nothing in this area, leaving the Hungarian people's money unscrupulous. It is also instructive that in November 2014, prior to the fall of Quaestor, the Vice-President of the Hungarian National Bank authorised Quaestor to issue a HUF 70 billion bond, and Quaestor was able to cause a total of HUF 150 billion in damages to its customers in this period, including, by the way, local governments, individuals and businesses as well. The irresponsible nature of financial supervision and the Hungarian state itself can hardly be described in words, this is a completely clear professional, human, moral failure that we need to record here. It is also important to say that on 2 December 2014, the National Bank authorised Quaestor to buy Creditgen Bank Zrt., so Quaestor could obtain licenses that provided it with a much wider margin of manoeuvre as it had before. Normally, in a normally functioning country, if it wasn't about friends of the Prime Minister, a comprehensive investigation should have preceded this step, this acquisition, just in order to determine whether the acquiring entity is capable of performing banking functions at all; this did not happen either. So we can talk about a number of serious failures in the brokerage scandal that could have been prevented with a little more care. It is important to talk about the weakening, weakening of the forint, stabilising 310 HUF/euro at the exchange rate, preserved and aggravated the problems of people who took over foreign exchange credit in Hungary. It is easy to see if Jobbik's proposal was accepted, which Dániel Z. Kárpát and I urged in 2010 for immediate forinting, would have been able to convert Swiss franc loans at the rate of 170-180 HUF, and the government would not have allowed the Swiss franc's exchange rate to deteriorate to 240-250 HUF, and in this way the Hungarian people would have suffered a brutal exchange rate loss. The only responsible party in Parliament who formulated these professional proposals was us, the exchange rate loss that people suffered in Hungary, although the government in office was clearly responsible, as it did nothing at all in this area. I note that foreign currency loans should have been HUFed at the rate applicable at the time of admission, but, of course, this did not happen either - in quotes. It is important to see that we have established from the data of the PSF, examining the source and asset side borrowing of the credit institution sector that there was no actual foreign exchange cover for loans sold as so-called foreign currency loans, so that banks are wrongly referring to exchange rate changes and illegally collecting money from people. The European Central Bank had a level of interest of 0.5 per cent at the time when Hungary was paid an interest rate of 11-12 per cent with the unfortunate foreign exchange taxpayers. With the exchange rate barrier, they pushed out the problem for only five years, they didn't actually solve it, and with the end-payment, they made sure that the government would help those who weren't otherwise financially dependent on it, leaving the debt-payers in trouble in trouble in trouble. It is important to see that we have achieved a significant result, and we ourselves, Jobbikos, consider it our own result, not least, that in 2015 the MNB's instrument became the three-month fixed-rate central bank deposit instead of the two-week deposit. I, too, have lobbied a lot for various economic policymakers in order to make this move, because in the two-week period of deposits, it was possible that credit institutions who were not resident in Hungary, so that they could do so for two weeks, drawing a basic central bank rate practically from the Hungarian taxpayers, the Hungarian state, that this amount did not provide virtually any security for Hungary. This was then transformed by the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, at the MNB the bond was made into a deposit, so a number of similar anomalies could be solved. I'm very happy for you, by the way. That's what I suggested, which is why I've been lobbying a lot. It was important to launch the growth credit programme, but it is also evident that this has not fulfilled the expectations attached to it. It is enough for my fellow Members to present only the corner numbers for the first two pillars: HUF 701 billion has been allocated in the first two pillars of the growth loan programme, and as a new loan for small Hungarian businesses with fewer than ten employees, only HUF 18 billion has been allocated, so the ratio that appeared as a new loan for small businesses was dramatically poor. Basically, the first pillars of the growth credit programme were designed to provide credit to companies with credit capacity even cheaper, but neither the central bank nor the government could solve the lending problems of the Hungarian economy with this series of steps. In the case of MKB, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank acted as a resolution function. I do not wish to discuss in detail the issues of concern that have been monitored by this activity, but one thing can be established: Hungarian taxpayers are rightly concerned about the issues at MKB and rightly concerned about the fate of Hungarian taxpayers' money in this regard, how resolution has taken place. I think there's plenty to investigate here. Official foreign reserves decreased by EUR 4.26 billion, so at the end of 2015, they amounted to EUR 30.3 billion. I think that this amount is sufficient in terms of the characteristics of Hungary, and Jobbik did not object to the size of this amount. However, we object to the fact that the share of gold in the central bank reserve was only 0.4 per cent, this means 3.1 tons of gold, Slovakia has ten times as much gold in stock at present, and I say in brackets that before the change of regime Hungary had 65 tons of gold, 65 tons of gold was stored in the Hungarian National Bank, compared to the current 3.1 tonnes. The Hungarian National Bank's profits were HUF 94.5 billion in 2015. I have already mentioned here that the legal background of the central bank's profit accounting system should be changed, in this respect, I think that Parliament has work to do, and in this area the central bank should be caught much more strictly. What I would like to talk to my fellow Members about before I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát and give him the pulpitus is that the steps in the central bank and the Hungarian government concerning the credit institution sector, the areas covered and how they affected public burdens in Hungary. The tax rate was 0.53 per cent earlier than HUF 50 billion, with only 0.24 per cent to be paid in 2016 and only 0.21 per cent in 2017, so much less than half of the tax payable by the banks was reduced in a short period of time. [[10.50]] I am asking you, Mr Vice-President of the Central Bank, and I am asking my fellow members of the Government why. Was it really necessary to reduce it in the banking sector? In parentheses, we had access to the data of last year's first three quarters: HUF 416 billion of profits were generated by the banking sector in Hungary. Are you sure these amounts need to be reduced in the banking sector? Are you sure they should be given these significant tax benefits? Less than half of the banks' contribution to public burdens has been reduced. I think this is a step that should be considered, because in order to increase the wages of the working Hungarian people, the government did not mobilise such reserves, it did not intend such efforts. I also consider it important to say that the transaction fee introduced in 2013 has been proven to have been passed on by the banks to their customers. In 2013, financial services prices increased by an average of 35,73 percent compared to the previous year and continued to increase by 14.77 percent in the first half of 2014. Neither the central bank nor the government have done anything to stop this. I'm asking you, why not? Is it not that the government is levying taxes on ugly and evil banks with bad judgment, while the Hungarian people are being taxed hard. If I look at the total wage cost, together with the employer's and employee's public costs, half of the Hungarian people's wages will be taken by the Hungarian State as a tax. Well, the Hungarian credit institution sector can operate under much, much more favourable conditions. I think that the system of this public burden-sharing should also be considered more carefully. Thank you very much, fellow Members, thank you, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-22-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpa, who has four minutes and 52 seconds left.
u2017-02-22-15	Mr President, Dear House, I cannot be accused of not being effective on a pro rata basis, so I am trying to enrich the arguments that have been made so far with very important topics. I am pleased that the report concerned could have landed about six months after its submission. That did change a previous practice. In the previous year, the government presented the previous year's reports to the Parliament and the committee concerned. This has changed at least to the fact that this spot has now been dealt with, and we may be able to switch to the annual schedule. At the same time, we need to see that the amazing and disorderly situation of those who have suffered from foreign exchange credit places a responsibility to the government that it refuses to face, dares not to face, and the MNB officials must, of course, face this responsibility, and cannot hide behind the mask of independence until the end of the world. We would also like to say that you still have about a long year to live, divide it in a normal way, do so for the credit-damaged until what can be done, but after Jobbik's administration follows, the fair accounting process remains within the legislative framework, according to which, of course, all those involved will account for what they have done. In particular, the banks concerned are obviously, since our first foundation has always been to ensure that the banks concerned pay the bill they caused, not the budget. But obviously, there have been accomplices in the system that call for accountability at least. We also see that, in principle, the fact that the MNB's financial balance sheet showed a profit at the end of 2015, unlike Mr Matolcsy's statements, it does not show the successful functioning of the central bank. Well, you're not basically working for profit purposes, because you don't have a profit plan for a profit-oriented public limited liability company, you don't have such goals, so your monetary policy shouldn't and shouldn't be subject to it. In this way, their success cannot be measured as to how much extra is generated in this system, if any. But if it has already been stated that if you are creating a deficit, it should be replaced by the Hungarian budget, then on the other hand it would be logical - and I would also very much like to see an otherwise binding legislation on this, which would show - that if there was an excess, this would be accompanied by a payment obligation towards the budget. I see that out of the HUF 94.5 billion profit, 50 billion was actually paid as dividends, but I say that the total amount should have been paid, and the so-called profits from the foreign exchange loan conversion in the previous period should have been paid into the Hungarian budget, and from there should have been used directly to settle the situation of the creditors. On the other hand, the reality shows that more than 140 thousand families, mostly with foreign exchange credit damage, are still unable to repay what they claim and you believe they have to repay - I have doubts about whether that debt is really large - and we also see that there are 18 thousand lawsuits in progress, of which around 6,000 are or may be suspended. And while tens of thousands of citizens are searching for their right through the legal system, hundreds of thousands of citizens are either impossible or poor, and tens of thousands of others need to be able to hire their own homes through the National Asset Manager, it cannot be said that this issue was settled, nor can it be said that the banks concerned were accounted for. And we also need to see that the continued abuses that surround this system really call for accountability. The maladministration of the implementation system has still not been fully implemented. It also turned out that in many cases the currency was not behind the debts involved, and I would be interested in the personal opinion of the pro-government representatives as to what you think when lawyers in Pécs, if any judges, call credit victims a problem to be fired. Obviously, we also need a new MNB law, and we will share our proposals on this in a normal speech. But basically, I find the climate unacceptable where the government enters into a pact with the Banking Alliance, where lawyers may call foreign exchange credit victims a problem to be fired, where even a social climate, a public feeling, can develop, that the broke-up old woman who simply went there to demonstrate and had the right to do so, is abused at the legal and banker's ball. I object to this climate. On a constructive basis, in the spirit of solutions, I say once again that you would have a long time to settle this situation on a substantial basis, which would require substantial communication between the government and the MNB, but I do not see any signs of that. I see they're hiding behind the mask of independence and trying to hide this problem; we can't accept it. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-22-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2017-02-22-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I have to start by saying that we do not see the activities of the Hungarian National Bank in 2015 as the same success story and success story as President György Matolcsy sees. The report of the MNB in 2015 should be assessed in such a way as to separate the different areas and tasks. First, I would like to make the summary statements, and then I will explain them in a little bit more detail. As regards some of the mandatory tasks, interest policy and price stability, the MNB has not, in our opinion and our experience, been outstanding. Not particularly, because he had nothing to do but adapt to favourable international trends and reduce interest. The Hungarian National Bank did this with some caution. In other parts of the mandatory tasks, however, he failed. Financial market supervision was powerless and blind, and political corruption sucked. The broker scandals, especially the Quaestor case, showed why the corrupt Fidesz system built up in the country is harmful to the country, how it causes people hundreds of billions of HUF damage. The MNB is also legally involved in supporting economic policy. Compared to this, we see that György Matolcsy does not support, but controls Hungarian economic policy, which is essentially unconstitutional, because the irresponsible MNB makes decisions instead of responsible ministries. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] What the Hungarian National Bank has done in addition to the mandatory tasks is a scandal, a disgrace to the world. The irresponsible and LMP claim that the illegal money-shopping, the Urization, the Fundamental Law and the Offshore spitting against its own code of ethics have made the Hungarian National Bank the citadel of corruption. Parallel economy, culture and education policy has created a state in the state, a rich paying position in the country's fallen, living on the debtors. [[11.00]] In the meantime, the President of the National Bank of Hungary uses the home of the Presidents of the Banking Association, also breaking rules; and they are proud of the feudal, corrupt arrangement. György Matolcsy is considered by the Prime Minister and, as a result, a good part of the Fidesz hinterland as an economic genius, who has pulled the country out of the pit, and for whom everything can therefore be tolerated, including the downfall of hundreds of billions and the destruction of the MNB. For the sake of fact, there has been no sign of genius in recent years. The performance of the Hungarian economy is also lagging behind in the same circumstances compared to our working East-Central European counterparts. Trends are similar both in growth and in the improvement of the budgetary situation and in the fall in interest rates and inflation, but are only more favourable in most places. There is no outstanding, brilliant performance in terms of trends in Eastern Europe. Rather, it is a sign of shame and failure of the Matolchysta policy, that while we call off 3-5 percent of GDP per year, our economic growth would be only 2 percent, i.e. probably negative without it, because the money is flowing, we also know where to: private pockets. One of the central banks is the Hungarian National Bank itself. After the summary findings, line up the areas. Interest policy. The year 2015 was very favourable from an international point of view to enable György Matolcsy to complete the further reduction in the base rate for his own success. The simple explanation of this is that the trend was also to keep the base rate low for the central banks that decided on the world market. In America, eight years after the crisis, the base rate was reduced to 0.25 percent in December 2015. Only then did a minimal increase to 0.5 percent. More importantly, in the meantime, the European Central Bank announced quantitative relaxation in January 2015, which was good news for the central banks of all EU countries and gave room for further interest reduction. During this period, the European Central Bank's interest rate was at the historical minimum level of 0.05%. Therefore, in such a market environment, the Hungarian central bank did not take a great risk that, almost one year after July 2014, in March 2015, it announced that it would further reduce the core Hungarian central bank interest rate. Therefore, it is important to note that the successful interest reduction policy, which the Hungarian central bank president has said many times, is actually due to the external environment, because they want to account for something that is not due to them and in which they did not take any risks. The same applies to declining inflation, in which significant reductions in energy prices have also played a role. Forinting. One of the important events of 2015 was the mandatory conversion of foreign currency loans into HUF. György Matolcsy is particularly proud of this and has been robbing the country ever since. The forinting of foreign currency loans was the right move, but should have been taken much earlier, and millions would not have suffered for many years. Péter Róna suggested it already in 2011, but it could have been done before, instead of Szijjártó and Kósa knocking down the forint and sending hundreds of thousands of foreign currency loaners into debt traps. As for implementation, the exchange rate, they lied to the whole country. Not at the time of admission, but at the current market rate. According to the Magyar Nemzeti Bank's own declaration, the profit was HUF 134 billion, which he stole for private purposes in detail later on. In this way, the majority of foreign exchange lenders, having already paid as much as they had received, were faced with the fact that they still owed the original amount. If the Hungarian National Bank and the government had taken the financial sustainability requirements somewhat seriously, they would have supported the proposal of LMP that would have set a debt ceiling and introduced the right to walk away. But you didn't support it. Foreign reserves. In 2015, official foreign reserves fell from EUR 34.5 to EUR 30 billion. This decrease can still be justified by the conversion of foreign currency loans. However, this has become a trend, now only 25 billion euros, which is a dangerous, irresponsible toy with the stability of the country. The end of the free money era can bring shocks and movements that could undermine the financial stability of small, open countries. The harsh reduction in foreign reserves also weakens our protection. And then a few words about the national credit program. Support for the country's economic policy was also included in the national credit programme. However, researchers have assessed that the original purpose of the growth credit programme has been achieved only to a very limited extent. In other words, the access of small and medium-sized enterprises to credit and thus the increase in investment activity in the sector have not been achieved. Few companies have obtained credit through the national credit programme that would not have obtained credit without it, and their investment activity would have decreased without this scheme. I mean, you guys put a lot of money into the program, pretty much ineffective. The global economy environment, the declining interest rates, did not make it a problem for Hungarian companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, but a problem for demand shortages, high and rigid tax burdens and emigration of skilled workers. However, the Hungarian National Bank, ignoring these factors, went through a huge and expensive program in a dilettant manner. And then the financial market supervision. The year 2015 was characterised by broker scandals. On February 23, 2015, Buda-Cash, on March 6, Hungary Securities, on March 10, the Quaestor Group failed. In the former case, the damage is largely covered by the accumulated wealth, but in the case of Quaestor - the theft of the century, yes, which is greater than the costs of subway 4, even though it was not small - it was no longer. The damage to the feudal fidesz arrangement has already been shown here. As the LMP has repeatedly put it, this was a politically supported pilot game. Quaestor was not properly controlled, and they even allowed a company with a capital of ten million to start a larger, first 50 billion, then 70 billion, obviously uncovered bond issues. Why was the Hungarian National Bank covering up this charade? Because Csaba Tarsoly had, so to speak, political protection as a good friend and football funder of Minister Péter Szijjártó, also indirectly from Viktor Orbán. He's an important character in the story, even the D.A.'s office. A friend of Attorney General Péter Polt's daughter was Csaba Tarsoly's personal secretary, his most trusted man. Péter Polt's wife receives HUF 5 million a month as a staff director at the Hungarian National Bank, plus she received a board membership in three foundations. The concentrations are obvious, hands wash. It's not surprising that they didn't find anyone wrong. Csaba Tarsoly's secretary wasn't even interrogated. And then let's talk a little bit about setting up foundations. The Pallas Athena foundations created by the Hungarian National Bank, thanks to the independent courts, are relatively detailed. Although they tried to hide it, they lied that money stolen from citizens would lose the character of public money if it was hidden in a foundation, and all the legal forums considered this to be illegal. The Hungarian National Bank created six foundations, five companies. In the foundations there are 30 leading members of the board, which is one of the main roles of the network to serve as a paying place for the Matolcsy clan. [[11.10]] The leaders make 320 million forints a year. Foundations manage 260 billion forints. They bought 17 properties for the townhouse and resort, for HUF 19.5 billion. Ferida Zrt. is one of the most interesting companies founded by foundations. This company manages some HUF 20 billion and may have something to do with an investment fund in Singapore, which bought a Hungarian bank as part of a consortium. Let's put it together: the Hungarian National Bank, which is responsible for supervising the financial market, is indirectly setting up a company that buys a bank through all kinds of offshore transactions. How are you going to supervise this bank? Well, unfortunately, the answer is, it doesn't. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank has thus become an internal market player, where it serves private, family and clique interests in public money, moving and exerting influence even more than the foreign exchange loan scam. In fact, according to Hungarian law, for these transactions, the management of the Hungarian National Bank, Ádám Balog, the leader of the MKB and the president of one of the board of trustees and many other actors would have to sit in prison if we had a working prosecutor's office, but no, because it was purchased for HUF 5 million a month. In summary, the Hungarian National Bank has either solved the mandatory tasks at medium level - interest policy - or expensively managed dilettantly planned programmes - national credit programmes - or financial supervision has failed due to political corruption mergers. Other activities are invaluable, because of the irresponsible privateisation of public funds and its own management, the MNB's entire senior management cannot avoid criminal liability. On this basis, LMP will not accept the 2015 accounts of the Hungarian National Bank. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-22-18	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I warmly welcome my fellow Members. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to speak to independent representatives and to speak for two minutes. No one has applied for a speech by independent representatives, so two-minute speeches will follow. I give the floor first from the MSZP Group to Mr István Józsa. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-02-22-19	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that György Matolcsy, who came in here in a sedre-sudra way, made a small presentation, and then ran away, is not here for the representatives' comments, because it would be very good if he took to heart what we say here. The elected representatives of the country represent the country's public opinion, the public whose mood, movement and opinion on the National Bank must be decisive. So as much as you think you're an ivory tower, you live on the market, and your fate and the success of the country's monetary policy is determined by what people, investors, with little money or a lot of money, think of you. The fact that you have had incredible luck over the past period, so in 2015 as well as in terms of the abundance of money in the world, as has been said, Fed's interest rate is around zero percent, that the European Central Bank has also started to reduce its volume, and that a very low oil price could be calculated on a permanent basis, these are exceptionally favourable international circumstances that you cannot ignore, probably not even left out, but do not admit in your own accounts. So when you want to perform in such a self-image way that you're doing the National Bank with such excellent, brilliant intuitions, you're deceiving yourself and you're trying to deceive the public. You can't fool the financial public, it's well aware of your interests, so I'm asking you to take out the mirror. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And face reality. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-02-22-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. Since several have not applied for a two-minute speech, there will be regular speeches. Mr Attila Mesterházy is coming from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-02-22-21	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, A lot of comments were made on the basis of what the President of the Central Bank said, all of which were worth the comment, and it is true that that is why the President of the Central Bank should stay here and listen to this debate and argue with us, because he does not take this Parliament seriously either, he does not take this debate seriously. So I would just like to express my regret that the President of the Central Bank has fled here or does not consider the Members of Parliament to be equal partners in order to argue with them. I would like to draw the attention of this House to an aspect of the President's speech which shocked me, and it may be that the Vice-President can explain this to me; specifically to a foreign policy aspect, a national security aspect, the President of the Central Bank pointed out to the broker scandals. He spoke of shadows, scripts, darkness, and said that the essence of this scenario - frankly, I went down to the video room, because I didn't want to believe what he said again - he said: that what happened in connection with the brokerage scandals was part of the overthrowing and overthrowing activities of the government on the embassy of a great NATO alliance country in Budapest. According to the President of the Central Bank, this overthrowing activity took place in autumn 2014, and he said that the real reason they noticed this brokerage scandal was because someone had spoken to the Hungarian National Bank, the President said that they would have noticed it later because they had fantastic new methods, but they didn't notice it because they wanted to use the Hungarian National Bank, I quote: based on a secret service and military scenario, they wanted to use the central bank to overthrow the government. But since the central bank was in place, this failed, and the aim was to create a bank panic in Hungary, which lasted four hours in four cities. I would ask the President of the Central Bank, if he were here, which country he had in mind, which one of the great NATO alliance countries wanted or wanted to overthrow the Hungarian government. If so, what secret service methods were used, what military scenarios were followed, did the President of the Central Bank report this to the Prime Minister, the Hungarian Parliament, the National Security Committee, the Information Office or the Counterintelligence? What steps have these people taken, these bodies, to preserve Hungarian national sovereignty and to avert such an allied attack? I've been thinking about who György Matolcsy was thinking about. László Szakács just said that because he was a NATO ally, it certainly wasn't the Russians, but it doesn't come to mind much more than the fact that the President of the Central Bank here today accused the United States of America of trying to overthrow the Orbán government in early 2015. But please, if that is the case, we must talk about this in the National Security Committee, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for sure. It would be worth it if the vice-president could clarify which secret service, which embassy in Budapest, what NATO sorority the President of the Central Bank spoke of, how they wanted to overthrow the Hungarian government. There is such a thing, hybrid warfare is now a well-known concept for those who are involved in security policy, for those of several countries in the country or in the world, and it may also be part of the use of such hybrid warfare instruments in Hungary, but then we must certainly talk about it in this House, and we need to know about it. So I'm not asking you, but I'm asking the President of the Central Bank to clarify which allied state you've accused, because it's a national sovereignty issue, it's a matter of national security that he's talking about. Or perhaps he just told folk tales about what a genius he is, because we also heard that he praised the former Minister for Economic Affairs, which he himself was, so it is a fact and a fact that the President of the Central Bank has turned to a rather high degree of self-immolation. I suppose you have heard the Prime Minister's guiding word that self-gratitude stinks; however, not joking about its essence: so who wanted to overthrow the Hungarian government by using the Hungarian National Bank in 2015 and what steps have you taken to prevent Hungarian national security and Hungarian sovereignty from being damaged? That's what I expect from you. And, of course, we will take the initiative to discuss this issue both in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in the Committee on National Security. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-22-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát is next to speak again from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[11.20]]
u2017-02-22-23	Mr President, Dear House, Although Mr Matolcsy is not currently in the room, we cannot let our targeted messages pass on to him either through the honourable mediator, not underestimating, of course, the powers of the MNB official in our midst. But we have to say that in recent debates in the National Bank of Hungary, we have said that the ownership executive and control functions have been infinitely intertwined, so there is a kind of Őskáus, where we are faced with the proliferation of basic tasks and the expansion of additional tasks; whether it is the expansion of the real estate portfolio or various foundational and educational activities, with which, by themselves, there might not be such a problem, with such an extension and at the same time at this level. It can be seen that, thanks to the Hungarian legislation, the central bank has even more autonomy than the Constitutional Court, since while the expenditure of the Constitutional Court and its associates is somewhat bound by budget appropriations, the MNB does not have any ceiling on its spending. That's why they've been running amok through their foundations. We also need to see that, although I say, this report can now be discussed about half a year after the submission, so obviously time and history have been going on since then, but what they have done about the weakening and strengthening of the forints has also caused about two things to be stabilised at the level of 310 HUF/euro. On the one hand, during the previous period, he preserved and preserved the problem of foreign exchange borrowers, while at the same time ensuring that we could have a few words at the end of the speaker's speech so that the extra profits of the central bank could be given a virtually continuous breeding ground. Once again, this is not one of the performance standards or criteria of the central bank, so it is not possible to set its operation as a success, but it must be seen that a continuous reserve system has thus been introduced in terms of generating profits. In this way, the 50 billion paid by the MNB, which could have, by the way, been used to remedy the problems of those injured in foreign currency loans, is dwarfed by what would otherwise have appeared as a payment obligation. And it is indeed no coincidence that the criticisms already addressed to the government have been raised in several keynote speakers, which say that flexibility is lacking in the system of solutions. What have you done? An amazing market rate foreign exchange credit conversion has been made. In doing so, the dehydrated economic environment was preserved. To their good friends, those in a lucky social situation, they allowed them to close at a reduced price of HUF 180, so they introduced an amazing double standard into this system. To this day, they cannot justify the philosophy behind it - it cannot be. Supposedly, for people from the lucky and upper middle class, it was a completely unjustified, pointless lifeline toss. This is where the exchange rate barrier problem, where the amount collected in the collection accounts will soon be on top of those whose family background and economic situation is typically and systemic, has not improved to such an extent that they are able to bear this additional burden, and a large part of this additional burden can be considered unjustified. And we also see that, indeed, the granting of a walk away walking right to those who have already assumed to have fulfilled their repayment obligation could have helped to provide the private bankrupt institution with a normal set of conditions for all thousands and tens of thousands of people. At the moment, we are there - I do not know how often Vice-President or any member of the government consults with the families who have been injured by credit - the last time was in the 19th century. I was in a district with a family who had nothing but the desire to get into the National Asset Manager, no objective exclusion, so they meet the statutory conditions, but at the same time the creditor bank concerned refused to contribute in the first instance, even to give its blessing to use a formula that could hardly be called the truncated solution. And then what happened was very rare in Hungary: one of the creditors either liquidated himself or simply became unavailable, and since then no cooperative statement can be obtained from him to at least allow the asset manager to have the family involved. At the same time, we also see that the asset manager, although in principle operating with a hat open from above, is not safe with regard to the allocation of budgetary resources, at least I do not see the background of the Hungarian budget, nor have we been able to find in government regulations that additional funds are being allocated here. Thus, at the end of the last year, the victims, even if not a solution, were fighting for less than 500 free seats - in quotes. This unworthy situation was created by the government, leaving it at that. In fact, the Hungarian National Bank has done what was left to it by the legislation, it has entered into these situations, it has shot up the situations there, and, if you will, has played with hundreds of billions of unwarranted profits, I think, in an otherwise unimaginative and often fraudulent way. I am thinking not only of the acquisition of art, but, where appropriate, of the expansion of the real estate portfolio in such a senseless manner can very, very much come back in a time of crisis, because let's think about what will be unsellable then, and as if the MNB were not dealing with it. But it seems that there is no real control over it, which is why it is not the organization that should be blamed the most, but the climate around it, which should be modified to the extent that the control comes back here. Therefore, when Mr Matolcsy refers to the fact that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank will be operating profitably again from 2013, this sentence and idea should be completed by what could and should be done with this profit. The fact is, dripping 50 billion into the budget is not enough. It would have been closer to me to, say, putting the 100 billion-dollar surplus of the MNB Foundations in such a case into a compensation fund from which it is possible to help credit victims directly, or, where appropriate, to improve the conditions of housing with a public housing and home creation programme, in such a way as to make it more accessible, while also thinking about the small ones. The wink that the government, the banking system and the MNB have produced in the latter, we can now say that they have been able to do more in years, completely unprecedented, from us to the east or in neighbouring countries, which is a disgrace to this government and this system. It has been mentioned that Germany or Poland has an obligation to pay the full year-on-year result, and the institutions concerned do so. In Hungary, we can talk about conditionally and volunteering in this system, which, in the long term, is certainly not going to stay that way. Not even because the Hungarian population is being kept under constant credit constraints by allowing prices to be balanced between Western Europe and Eastern Europe. At the same time, the gap in wage levels does not seem to calm down. The number of people who are able to repay in full remains above 140 thousand. As we have mentioned, 18,000 lawsuits are under way where the unfortunate victims are seeking their truth that legislation could have solved this problem for them a long time ago, and this dehydrated economic environment implies that in the coming years, the situation of small families will continue to be a subject of speech. Our goal may be to avoid social transfers. They don't want aid, they want justice and redemption. As a result, society could become fully productive, tax-paying members, as they have the talent and experience to do so. If, on the other hand, neither the government nor the organization whose meaning lies before us is helping, it is a disgrace and a disgrace. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-22-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr István Józsa. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-02-22-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add a little nuance to the overpolisation of the National Bank by Fidesz, because when the President talks about how excellent profits have been made and how this profit has been enriched by national assets, namely the assets of foundations, it is important to know that the Hungarian National Bank has two means of training profits. One of them is influencing its costs, so as cost center, if it reduces its cost, it can have a positive impact on its profits. According to every expert opinion, he didn't practice this. Thus, its costs have not been reduced or even increased through incredible spending and very strong wage developments. [[11.30]] The other thing that makes his profits, you might say, is his virtual profits, is exchange rate policy. In cooperation with the government, they managed to break down the forint exchange rate, and as a result, hundreds of billions of forints of profits were virtually detected at the Hungarian National Bank, which, according to many, I believe, is neither the Hungarian National Bank's nor its credit. This profits, known as 260 billion forints, did not give to foreign exchange lenders, the foreign exchange credit conversions, i.e. the profits generated at the cost of their poverty. If the forint had not been decided, the problem of foreign exchange lenders, especially individuals, would not have been developed, and they would have had the opportunity to climb out of the credit crisis along with a stronger forint, or if the National Bank had not treated it as its own, and put it in foundations for such purposes, but rather, say, a fairer government would have given the government the opportunity, for example, at the foreign exchange exchange rate or exchange rate in 2010, for example by relying on the profits of the National Bank. So you're squandering a profit that can be shown in human tragedies and human fates, so it's definitely unfair. This attitude should be corrected with decency, and it should not continue the transparent hypocrite practice that the profits that have been transferred to their foundations have already lost the nature of public money. He didn't lose it, it's the money of the Feds. It's better that they know that the National Bank took their money because it came from their misery. The second is the legitimate needs of the Quaestor victims. So to say that whatever the Hungarian National Bank has resolved in its supervisory powers goes directly against reality. The fact is that the Hungarian National Bank should take responsibility for the damage caused by its supervisory powers. As long as the State Supervisory Authority of Financial Institutions was operating, it was also included in its name that this was a state oversight, so it was accompanied by a state responsibility. It doesn't make sense to us, neither was the legislation, so it didn't make sense why they were imagining their operation in this coroner's mode. It's been found that, uh, this is where HUF 150 billion was damaged. Please, it's not a custody operation, it's a custody breach. Surveillance would be to prevent you from doing so if, at the first sign, when the first damage occurs, let's say you read the notice that Quaestor posted. That there's no guarantee behind this that it's a practice supervisor that doesn't make eye contact? He probably didn't read it. So I think that you should have a much greater responsibility for the Quaestor victims, and that there is indeed damage to the supervisory powers and enforcement of this by means of redress. So this responsibility must not only be dealt with as a technical part of the main thing, but also as part of the responsibility, after taking over the supervision of the Hungarian National Bank from the State Supervisory Authority of Financial Institutions; this is largely forgotten by the report, even though this should be covered by the activities of a responsible National Bank. Once again, the profits are not yours, the cost is yours, the wasteful farming is yours, the rule is yours, the damage is yours, the damage is to the Quaestor-harmed and the currency cred. It's not fair! The MSZP is voting for a fair operation. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-02-22-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. I will ask Vice-President Martin Nagy if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. [[Sándor Burány: Do you wish?]] I will ask Mr Bánki, rapporteur for the Committee on Economic Affairs, and its President, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] I wish. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2017-02-22-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I must respond to what has been said in this debate, because, as expected, the opposition representatives have not made the slightest attempt to have any professional debate here. Perhaps I would like to highlight Mr János Volner, Head of the Group, who really dealt with the substance of the report of the Central Bank and Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát. In addition, I have heard, in particular, a series of political attacks by the MSZP. I liked Mr István Józsa the most, who said that the MSZP is on the side of justice, and that he is thinking about such a model. Congressman, I would remind you, although you obviously don't like to remember your period of government, which I understand, because so many times to deceive people, to make so many bad decisions that put tens of thousands of Hungarian families, even hundreds of thousands of them, to pursue a government policy that put Hungary on the brink of state failure, is really not too much pride [[Dr. István Józsa: Expired album! I didn't say that!]] and serving a prime minister who himself confessed to lying in the morning and at noon and at night [[Dr. István Józsa: Morning, night and night!]] And that, I think, is the limit of good morality, so it's not dilettantism, it's also the limit of good morality. [[Dr. István Józsa: Zsigmond Járai!]] Well, at your time, András Simor, central bank president, who you have nominated for the position of the central bank president, has kept the central bank's core interest rate so high, which has made lending expensive. You, fellow Members, have forced hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families to take on foreign exchange loans with this failed monetary policy and failed economic policy. You have abolished, my honourable fellow Member, during the Medgyessy government, the otherwise state-supported forint loan launched by the Orbán government in 2001, which was aimed at enabling every Hungarian family wishing to obtain housing, since the basic unit of society is the family, and for the Hungarian people the safe home, safe living is an important category. You have eliminated the state guaranteed and supported forint loans, saying that it costs too much. You have to see how much it cost to force Hungarian families to take on foreign exchange loans by keeping the forint, the central bank's basic interest rate high, the HUF financing and forint lending was above 10%, which, by the way, made it difficult not only for Hungarian families, but also for Hungarian businesses, because it is very difficult to generate such interest with a fair business. Well, then criticize the National Bank's leadership [[Dr. István Józsa: It's possible after all!]] With the decisions that helped the Hungarian government's economic policy, and thanks to which the country is in a position today to achieve higher wage increases than the average of the European Union, we are able to pursue higher economic growth than the average of the European Union, a budget deficit reduction greater than the average of the European Union and a more stable fiscal policy, well, this can be considered as virtually ridiculous. [[Dr. István Józsa: Stealing is stealing!]] So I think, my honourable fellow Member, that the grapes are obviously sour, but this does not justify the success that the President of the Central Bank called not the success of the central bank, but the success of the Hungarian state, and what is in the interest of the Hungarian people is trying to reduce. Although Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck left the room after her speech, she was obviously excited about today's parliamentary debate, which I do not admire, because she was talking about a credit programme that was not. I wanted to ask him - maybe next week - what a national credit programme is. That's what Congresswoman Konzekensen was talking about. I'm guessing you're confusing the programme launched by the central bank and which, by the way, is so successful that it didn't work as a national credit programme. [[11.40]] However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if he has declared a bad programme which could not fulfil his objective, that is to say, to provide the domestic small and medium-sized enterprise sector with funding, credit financing, at a time when the banks' willingness to lend was converging towards zero, and when, as I mentioned in my introduction, for the first time in the European Commission's history, he is launching a programme to boost the economy of small and medium-sized enterprises, which is right behind which he is launching a programme like our growth credit programme, namely the growth and credit programme launched by the central bank, well, I think it is a bit excessive to say that this was a bad decision and a bad loan programme. The other thing I did not understand in her speech was that Csaba Tarsoly has political protection. Dear fellow Member, Where's Csaba Tarsoly? If he had been given political protection, how would he have been arrested in advance, and how would he be prosecuted? I don't know what you're talking about. So it is possible to say big things in Parliament, but at least reality is trying to maintain a faint mirror on these claims. Finally, in general, I would like to return to the criticism of opposition parties at one point, and this is the 260 billion that they are talking about stealing. Ladies and Gentlemen, Obviously, you know perfectly well that the fund's contribution to the foundations cannot be used by the Foundation and can only finance any activity from its return. So, not only can the share capital be lost, not lost, but cannot be lost, so they farm from it, these foundations farm on its return. So they're telling another lie between the walls of Parliament. [[Dr. István Józsa: The budget could use it.]] And what we have to talk about is that Jobbik's representatives have raised the fact that the rescue of foreign exchange credentials was not complete. Indeed, fellow Members, it could have been better, could have been more effective, but two things should not be forgotten. One is that in this country it was thousands of families who did not take on the exchange rate risk that a foreign currency loan could have. These families, yes, paid interest over 10 percent and paid off their loans together. It is not fair to them either that if we had done everything we could to achieve this with budget money, in addition to what we have so largely recovered from the banks, but also from our own budgetary resources to save hundreds of thousands of families with foreign exchange credits, I believe that, compared to the budgetary burden, it would not necessarily have been fair to other taxpayers if we had spent even more resources and budgetary resources on this. And the National Asset Manager was created to give those who lost their home an opportunity to buy them back later, once their financial circumstances have been settled. I think that what the government has done to save foreign exchange-credit families, and the central bank has contributed to this, was unique at Central European level, just as it was unique that the Hungarian government first took action to release foreign currency loans. And if you will recall, my fellow Members, after we led foreign exchange loans out of retail lending, there was another wave of forints in the market, and at the same time a Swiss franck strengthening, which saved these Hungarian families hundreds of billions of forints of losses. So I think that we can all be proud of both at government level and the leadership of the National Bank for the period that 2015 meant for their operation. So I will continue to maintain it, and I ask you to support the proposal for a resolution that the Economic Committee has submitted to Parliament. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-22-28	Thank you very much, Congressman, President of the Commission. I don't know what John Volner asked for. [[János Volner: Excuse me. I won't speak after closing, Mr. President.]] Only because his name appeared on a billboard, and I thought it was in order. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. I apologize for interrupting. I just didn't get it. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. A general debate on the bill amending Act I of 1988 on road transport is now taking place until closure. Government referral T/13484. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all. I declare that the motion will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Homolya, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame, whom I warmly welcome on the occasion of his speech in Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-02-22-29	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, we have come to an EU agenda or a bill. A 2003/88. The European Community Directive provides for certain aspects of the organisation of working time and, on the basis of a complaint from the Commission, an EU pilot procedure and an infringement procedure have been initiated for the rest of the rest periods of bus drivers on scheduled bus services in local transport and on scheduled bus services for a distance of not more than 50 km. The legal provisions have been drawn up in accordance with the pilot procedure conducted by the European Commission and the personal consultations and consultations held in infringement proceedings, as well as the discussions with professional organisations and employees' and employers' forums, and this legal provision contains the following, as set out by the European Commission. On the one hand, the daily rest period shall be granted in two parts if the employee's rest period reaches 12 hours on one day. One part shall be equal to or less than 9 hours, the other shall be equal to or greater than 3 hours, and the longer part shall be issued up to and including 9 hours for the period immediately preceding the next day's start of work. The other amending provision is that in an exceptional traffic situation, an exceptional reduction in daily rest periods is proposed for an 8-hour contiguous period. In this latter case, the missed rest period shall be added to the consecutive daily rest period immediately following completion of the following service. The regulation adopted by the European Commission and included in the proposal is intended to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Directive in transport and, in particular, by road bus and coach transport, in accordance with the working conditions existing in such bus and coach services, in order to ensure that the specific needs of transport are adequately met. Accordingly, it is proposed that the daily rest period for such bus services be granted in two parts. Drivers shall not be required to be available during this rest period, shall have no other job obligations, shall be free to have their rest periods and shall spend this free time as they wish. This rest period provision is very important in order for workers to rest properly, while the transport of passengers is constantly ensured. Two instalments of the rest period are justified by the fact that passenger transport needs occur mainly during the morning and the evening. An important element of the proposal is that only more favourable derogations for workers can be agreed between the parties from the rules described by written agreement or collective agreement, so that only more favourable rest time provisions can be laid down in a contractual agreement or collective agreement. It is an important fact that this change, the release of this rest period in two instalments, cannot be immediately introduced and a legislative transition is necessary, so the proposal states that only from 1 January 2018 these provisions should enter into force. As I mentioned earlier, the proposal was discussed with trade unions, professional organisations, major Volan companies, local Volan companies, state Volan companies, and in this consultation we came to this common position, which we are now presenting to the Honourable Parliament. [[11.50]] On the basis of the foregoing, a forward-looking bill for workers and community transport has therefore been submitted to this House. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament that T/13484. Please support the adoption of bill No 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-22-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Here are the keynote speeches. First, I give the floor from the Fidesz Group to Mr Mihály Witzmann, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-02-22-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, From a really short, but road safety point of view, I think we have a very important bill before us right now. The aim of the bill is to ensure that the Hungarian regulations on daily rest periods for bus drivers working on regular local bus services and up to 50 kilometres in community transport can be brought into line with EU provisions, not to mention increasing the efficiency of road safety. The European Commission's interpretation of 2013 states the following findings: in scheduled urban public transport, when determining the working schedule of workers responsible for passenger transport, it is possible to exclude 11 hours of rest every 24 hours as a general rule of Directive 2003/88/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, but in such cases a compensatory rest should be granted to workers before their next shift begins. The Commission's view was that the current Hungarian legislation does not provide this with sufficient efficiency, so the competent experts of the Hungarian Government contacted the Commission and conducted the necessary professional consultation. The conciliation meetings were agreed below. On the one hand, two parts of the daily rest period have been accepted where the rest period of the worker reaches 12 hours on the same day, with the restriction that one part of the rest period must be at least 9 hours in a continuum and the other part must be at least 3 hours in a continuance and the longer rest period is expected to take place for the period immediately preceding the next day's start of work. On the other hand, it has also been accepted that in an exceptional traffic situation, daily rest periods may exceptionally be reduced for an 8-hour period. In this case, the missed rest period shall be added to the consecutive daily rest period immediately following completion of the following service. It is clear from what I have said that the above provisions clearly aim to ensure that bus drivers are well rested and, in addition, to ensure the continued provision of passenger transport services. The issue of daily rest periods in two instalments is entirely justified, since passenger transport needs are predominantly in the morning and evening, and during the day such needs are very small. Drivers are, of course, not obliged to be available during rest periods, nor are they required to have any other job obligations, i.e. spend these periods as leisure time. Point 2 of the proposal also provides for the possibility of reducing the rest by 8 hours in exceptional cases of force majeure, such as extreme weather conditions or even in the event of a serious accident, to ensure the safe performance of large numbers of passenger transport tasks. The changes made by the proposal and the compliance with the new legislation that will emerge will hopefully not be a problem and could be a significant additional burden for service providers. In order to allow the transition to take place smoothly, the bill intends to allow a sufficient period of preparation for the changeover, as the new regulation will only enter into force on 1 January 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, Since it is clear from what I have said that the proposed regulation is clearly intended to improve the safety of bus and coach passenger transport, creating the necessary regulatory environment for harmonisation in the European Union, I therefore urge you with respect to support the adoption of the proposal before us by voting after the debate has taken place. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-22-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Nándor Gúr. Here you go.
u2017-02-22-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[While he's pinning his microphone:]] There are only two details of my microphone; I will edit one, I beg your pardon. I solved the question.
u2017-02-22-34	It worked out. Let's hope it lasts till the end.
u2017-02-22-35	I'm trying to do my job, I'm trying to keep my head down. Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to Mihály Witzmann's words, I'm starting a little bit different from where I wanted to start. And I would like to highlight why, perhaps, my fellow Member is mistaken in this regard, what he said earlier. And then, obviously, I'll get to the part of the bill that's most important. Workers who are engaged in a work activity that affects not only their own lives but also the lives of others clearly have to do so in the context of working conditions that do not endanger others, even avoiding their chances. Says my fellow Member, the contents of this bill virtually confirm that these people performing work can do their job in a rested state. Allow me, Mr President, my fellow Member, to give, of course, a possible example in line with the subject. A bus driver who lives, say, 10-30 kilometers from his place of duty, where he has to take the job, is a bus driver who can be paired with a relatively early shift, say, at 5:00 a.m., and we know that there are many of them, and it is not an extreme situation that he is 10-30 kilometers away from his place of duty, that worker must surely get up at 3:30 in the morning. His first half-hour is to put himself in the position, and the next three quarters to one hour is to get from his place of residence in some form to his place of duty, where he can take the job. At 5:00 a.m., he's on shift, and from 5:00 a.m., a part of the shift peak starts there around 7:00 a.m. Let's say he's working till 11:00. Then the morning peak will be over, working six hours. According to this bill, he is then told that three hours of rest, not standby, no, rest period, should be paid on standby; three hours rest. We arrived at 2:00 p.m. And then they tell him that you're back on shift, that the afternoon peak is coming, that you're back on shift for a six-hour period at most, so that he doesn't work more than 12 hours. Then, in this situation, if you were on shift at 2 p.m., you would be doing work until 6 p.m., no, 20 hours, if you were only going to do work for 4 hours, 18 hours. If you worked until 6:00 p.m. or 8:00 p.m. in this second meal, then there are shifts at these workplaces again, it also takes time, half an hour, half an hour, half an hour, half an hour, half an hour, half an hour, or half a half ten, depending on whether you worked 4 or 6 hours extra, and you're at your family's house at 8:00 p.m. or 8:30 p.m. at the right time. And if you're doing well, you can start again tomorrow morning. Anyway, I only mentioned the example, and I told you that it was an evisceration of the employee. It is simply unacceptable that they are trying to create a situation, especially after the 2011 Labour Code, which in itself led to evisceration. 2011... - the Labour Code in force from January 2012 practically brought - remember, be proud to have taken away the afternoon allowances, reduced the overnight allowances - that they created the possibility of bringing collective agreements to life, which is about the fact that, in the case of state-run companies, the Labour Code - quoted in the world of work: the Bible - cannot be more positive. [[12.00]] Do you understand? ! No more negative, no more positive. You are now showing how to deviate more negatively from what has already been published as the labour code of evisceration in itself. They show how to create conditions for employers that are in fact accompanied by the evisceration of workers. In the world of work, it is said that the Code of Work is intended to provide flexibility and security on the one hand. Clearly flexibility for employers and security for workers. In the last seven years, you have created a framework for flexibility, flexibility and flexibility, while, of course, employers have been pushed against the wall by, for example, these workers, who do not have such a huge salary as a bus driver, paired their employers with an increasing burden of contributions after their wages, which, as I said, has also been pushed against the wall, but the workers, above all employers. Well, the only reason I mentioned this is because my fellow Member Witzmann was talking about rested workers and the possibility of that. Obviously, the purpose of this bill is to actually give out the rest period in two parts during the course of a given day. Obviously, I understand that the peak load and cyclicality are taken into account in this way, with regard to morning, evening peaks, road transport, in cases within 0-50 kilometres. It's not work organisation. Work organisation is more about something else, and it is also about the interests of the worker. So it is local and within 50 kilometers; of course, if you look at the regulatory systems that affect the Volan companies beyond it, you can also see that it is simply within the regulatory framework that you draw for them, the forms that are the basis for their work that cannot be kept. In other words, this is the way to meet this type of expectation, while increasing the number of employees. There are no other conditions for this, because there will be no longer any more in Budapest, but in the larger cities, there will be no one who would take on this type of work, because he feels that he is only held against the wall and left this country; 600,000 people have already left, you know. With regard to daily rest periods, the basis is to be 12 hours; 12 hours and, where possible, to be related to 12 hours. This regulation now says that it can be broken down to 9 and 3 hours, and that after the completion of one working day, before the start of the other working day, there should be time for a longer period of 9 hours of rest. But it doesn't say and it doesn't show that in these 9 hours, as I mentioned in the example, these bus drivers need to get to their workplace and then get back to work after the change. This usually consumes at least an hour on a Budapest scale. Maybe more, if any, it's just one way to go, along with two trips back. This means that this example will last 5 or 7 hours for the workers concerned and for their families to rest. How do you think, under these conditions, this man can do his job with integrity and no accident risks? Not only for his person, but also for persons who have been transferred from A to B by him, they are increasing risk factors in the system. My fellow Member has spoken here about the reduction of rest periods to 8 hours in connection with emergency situations, the transition to weather or other extraordinary situations. Yes, I read the draft law, too, and he says that on the next working day, of course, the extra rest time that has been taken away from the employee has to be guaranteed, so to speak, but the basic problem here is not. The fundamental problem is that if an employment contract is linked between the employer and the employee, it will be done in writing and then it will obviously only be changed by mutual agreement. And in this contract of employment, the associated collective agreements, if any, always strengthen and describe the thinking that strengthens or should strengthen the safety of the worker, the protection of his health, and that generally moves the collective agreements towards a more favourable diversion. In collective contracts, they don't really move in any other direction. Legal amendments are used to move in a different direction, in a negative direction, as you have shown earlier. The second fundamental problem within the framework of this whole reflection is how the negotiations with the single transport trade unions have taken place or how they have not. On the basis of the views of the trade unions, I can say with a calm spirit that this draft law will not be supported, not by the opposition on the part of Parliament, or by the parties of the opposition, on the part of the opposition, on the part of the opposition, on the one hand, but does not have the support of interest representatives themselves. This draft law cannot be clearly understood. You know, the two-way breakdown of this 12-hour period, the counting of that 12-hour period between 9:00 and 3:00, the withdrawal of stand-by allowances, because that's what this is about, it's dishonest. This is unfair to these workers. You know, it's also unfair to expect this availability while it's obvious that these people, these workers, can't actually spend almost a minute on rest. They can't go home because an hour there, an hour back; what rest are we talking about? There's even a risk that he's going to make it back. Nonsense! Nonsense that they make up just to pay less money into people's hands. Shocking! It is also unacceptable to have to take up work several times on a given day, on a given working day. That's Mt. It's against the basic provisions. Obviously, there are extreme cases, but you're not doing anything about extremes, you're doing something that virtually generates an impact on the life of this sphere and the lives of the people who work here. There is no story, rest rest is the fact that it is both contiguous and moderate in size. As I said, it is essential to ensure this only because, if this does not happen, there are huge risks to be taken into account, not only in relation to the possible injuries to the worker, but also in relation to the people for whom he is responsible, for whom he is responsible. Mr President, I will continue next time. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-22-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr István Hollik. You have the floor, please. [[12.10]]
u2017-02-22-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! I don't want to add to the word. Mr State Secretary spoke about the content of the bill. I think that it is important that the Hungarian Government should always represent the interests of the Hungarian people and Hungary. If this requires confrontation with the European Union, then the Hungarian Government will do so, if it sees an opportunity to agree with the European Union, it will do so. As far as I can see, on this issue, the Hungarian Government and the European Union, who challenged the former Hungarian regulations, sat down and, if I understand correctly, reached a compromise that the European Union can accept, the Hungarian Government can support, the Hungarian interest representatives accept, and the result of this whole amendment is that the management of the work for bus and coach drivers is better, and they have more rest periods. We therefore support this bill. Once again, because the government has agreed not only with the European Union, but also with the interest representatives. The European Union can accept the proposal put forward by the government. I think that for bus drivers, this proposal introduces a work organisation system that is more favourable to them because they will have more rest periods, while at the same time ensuring continuity of passenger transport. Obviously, this was not the primary governmental aspect, but let us add that, thanks to this amendment, the bus companies concerned have to hire hundreds of new bus drivers, since the arrangements for the organisation of work have changed, so there are actually hundreds of new jobs to be created in this context. I think that the time that is included in the proposal, because if the Parliament adopts it now, the regulation will only be in force on 1 January 2018, then it will enter into force, giving the bus and coach companies concerned an appropriate time to prepare, and since I say it will involve hiring bus and coach drivers, they will be able to train, prepare and hire these bus and coach drivers. In view of this, we consider this proposal to be a good proposal and the KDNP fraction will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-22-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Ander Balázs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-02-22-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't think that, in the context of the amendment of the 1988 Road Transport Act I, we would again be involved in debates that would highlight the fact that the people in the pro-government benches are living on another planet. I already have serious questions about the head of State Secretary's office, for example in the context of negotiations with trade unions, because on the opposition side, on the part of Jobbik, we find that this consultation, this professional dialogue, even social dialogue - because it is a social issue in this case - you have saved us, at least that feeling. I had the opportunity to negotiate on weekends, to talk to a union leader who was deeply upset about this proposal, and he does not remember at all - and I do not think he would suffer from amnesia - that you would have conducted this discussion with him. It is perfectly natural, by the way, what is referred to here, so the cyclicality of road transport and community transport may require certain specific forms of work organisation. Indeed, the need for passenger transport services is different, since we should only think about the breakfast or evening peak, and this needs to be resolved, and we need to find a special way of organising work. But in no way should the exploitation and evisceration of workers, drivers, bus drivers be at a level that would otherwise jeopardise further service. My fellow Member, Mr Witzmann, said that drivers, the rest of workers, are a very important element of this amendment. I was shocked to hear it. I do not want to repeat my fellow Member's very detailed introduction or comment here, but these nine hours in practice will be enough. Let's see, considering my narrower Patriot, say, a Barcs-Nagyata, so thinking in a South Somogyi relationship, staying in this whole situation. 40 km is the distance between the two cities, these bus drivers also provide the community transport needs of the seven other settlements between them. What happens if you tear up your rest period like this, get these 3 hours, and actually pay them by no longer requiring availability in the first 3 hours of rest? Thank you very much, you're not getting anywhere. What can a bus driver do with these three hours? I'm pretty sure he can't regenerate in a normal way, and there's no way he can do that if we look at the current conditions. There is also a reference to the Code of Work, but we cannot accept it. You've turned the labor code into almost a slave law book. Hungarian workers were put in a position that made their situation more difficult than before. So we can't accept the reference from Jobbik's benches. The fact that they are trying to name this three-hour period as a rest period is not worth anything, as I have said, because a man who has worked in such a 12-hour split shift would demand the right to a normal rest period, but if it continues to be what we have seen now, then this profoundly inhuman practice is indeed a major threat to the order of transport, also to road safety. No wonder you have a budget interest override everything else. However, if this sector were to receive adequate budget funding and the wage level were finally brought up to a level that would provide a normal, decent lifeline for people working in this very responsible sector, then there would be enough bus drivers, then the work organisation problems that we are facing and facing right now might be more manageable. Jobbik's proposal is that drivers working in split shifts should have a coherent 11-hour rest period. We are proposing an amendment in this direction, and we are asking you to accept it. However, we have left some transitional time, but they must admit that if this 11 hours is not coherent, they will not give it to the workers, then this sector will also run towards the abyss. In addition to the current wage level, despite your promises of improvements, there will be no slowness of man to carry out these jobs, and then the mobility guarantee that the countryside really needs - I would also refer once again to the constituency where I live, it is a small village - because you do not hear it in time and have sufficient empathy for workers' complaints, then community transport in these areas will be difficult at such a level that the further fate of these tiny villages will also become questionable. [[12.20]] Because not everyone can fly a helicopter, and not everyone in these small villages has a government Audi. By the way, you will state in detail the reasons given in section 3. In the context of Section 3, there is a case of a Hungarian driver's deficiency. When we talked about this, they were always dissipating it at the State Secretary level and trying to make it seem that the opposition, Jobbik, is alarming me unwarranted when it draws attention to the fact that there are very serious problems in this sector as well. So how is it now? It's in writing. We were right, and I shouldn't be right, but unfortunately, it will be, if you don't listen to the needs of employees that are absolutely justified, then we will be even more right about the gloomy vision that we have just outlined. What we see, however, is that in this sector as well, there is money for what they want to make money for in the road transport sector. If you feel like it, then you will order new costumes, which is a very good thing, but you just have to see that this is about 600 thousand forints per employee, and I think the question here is absolutely right: which of your friends will be enriched by this overpriced, which one of them seems to be inexorable. Then, if it comes to that, the employees, whose interests they can rely so highly on here, can be further humiliated by the fact that at the annual level they will be pinched from their HUF 340 thousand cafetheria by not asking them about it, or, according to press reports, by threatening them to accept the life and accident insurance scheme offered to them. So, what's this? What we see here in Jobbik's benches is that public transport companies once support foundations close to Fidesz with public money, throwing hundreds of millions of forints at them, or even at county level, giving these friends tens of millions forints, and at other times we see these money being well hijacked and some individuals' pockets being enriched with a small HUF and a half billion. The construction I was just talking about has increased the wealth of the person who received this greasy snack at the South Lowland Transport Centre, and according to the press reports, not only did they conclude these contracts for 2,200 workers there, but they broke their cafeteria in this way, but they did so for all seven regional transport centres. Well, these are the questions that we would expect to be answered here in the benches of Jobbik in connection with such a brief amendment of the law, because until there is a satisfactory explanation, there is no normal answer, we cannot believe that the above-mentioned working-friendly ideas are true. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-22-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to speak to independent representatives and to speak for two minutes. Since no one came forward, according to my monitor, the regular speeches will follow. Mr Nándor Gúr, Member of the MSZP Group, has asked for another speech. Here you go.
u2017-02-22-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member Hollik - I regret that he is not here, because it makes it more difficult for us to share views; there is such a thing as giving an opinion and going out afterwards - he says that Fidesz is representing for the benefit of the people. Look, my non-present fellow Member, but some of the fellow Members in the benches of the governing party should watch, not talk in words about what Fidesz does for people. No! It must be shown in acts, in fact. The current bill is also clearly about the implementation of action to the detriment of workers, and it is also doing so by putting others, other than vulnerable workers, in an emergency or by putting others in danger. It's unacceptable, it's unacceptable, and I could use a much harsher adjective. That's the limit of despicableness. Simply because they save money or want to save money there, let's say, for companies operated by the state, where it is not necessary to save money, but to provide cover for security, and everywhere else, where attention should be paid - I would like to give an example to make it clear - in terms of public procurement, say, where it is not about a few ten million forints, but about ten thousand or twenty thousand forints decisions, where one third of public procurement is known to be one-playing interestingly. And interestingly, Fidesz itself, today's governing parties, are linked to the multitude of those who in this story, in this one-playing public procurement procedure, win these huge sums of money. It is not a study that supports the fact that, within the framework of these public procurements, those affected are faced with overpriced prices of 20 and 30 percent. [[Dr. Vas Imre: OLAF report!]] [[Dr. Vas Imre: OLAF report!]] There are 20 and 30 percent overpriced. (Dr. Vas Imre: OLAF report!) There's the problem... press that button, my fellow Member, ask for a word...
u2017-02-22-42	Congressman, this is my job, and I will do it. You continue, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the ordinary speaker's speech, you only actually came to the bill in the eighth minute. I'm listening right now. I understand that this is a general debate and there is much to be said, but I would ask you to talk about what is in the bill. Thank you.
u2017-02-22-43	Mr President, I thank you very much for your opinion and for your position. We are now in the third minute, and until the eighth minute, I have given a case-by-case example of the bill. If you were listening, Mr. President, you felt it. Thank you very much. And my fellow Member, he told me that he was warning him, but he didn't, so my sentence was correct. Returning to the bill, as far as the bill is concerned, I would like to say that with regard to the absence of bus drivers, the absence of bus drivers, the recordings encounter at least two difficulties, at least two. One is that, although what would be a government responsibility, let's say, to provide a hedge fund for this, is at least doubtful. The other is that even if there were government funding for the inclusion of hundreds, five hundred, thousand bus drivers in the range of 0 to 50 kilometers of road transport, which is what the law is about, there is now almost no man to be hired or hired, because over the last seven years, 600 thousand people have left this country as a result of the economic policy that Fidesz is pursuing, because they could not make a living at home because they did not receive their decent salary, because the minimum wage people have received money worth less than five to six years, with less purchasing power. This policy did not help the process of solving problems; neither did the legislation, nor the labour code, which increased vulnerability. This legal measure is an absolute advantage for employers, since it saves the amount of the allowance for the period of provision and the amount of remuneration on the employees. By opening that rest period, that 12-hour rest period, in two directions, for 3 and 9 hours, it creates the situation that the 3 hours that you spend on a particular shift after 5-6 hours are not suitable for going home and coming back are not for resting; it is a fucked-up time. It's a fucked-up time from their point of view, because he can't use it for his family's benefit or yours. And after that, when you have to work again on the same day during the second period of the summit, then you are faced with the fact that no one here pays you that intermediate 3 hours, with regard to the available remuneration, zero forints is what he receives, but has to be there. And like I said, he got up at 4:00 in the morning, and he'd be home at 8:00 in the evening, and they wouldn't pay him that three hours in the process. [[12.30]] I think it's an absolute margin of despicableness, and it's unacceptable. There is a reduction in wages in a country where there is no wage reduction to be given to these people, but a raise in wages. You can talk about the increase in wages in general here. Of course, of course, gross wages, especially, can even be said for the real world. But especially for people who do simple, tangible work, that is unfortunately not true, it has been reduced for five to six years. The problem, you know, my fellow Members, is that, in addition to everything we are talking about here, once again, not only is the person in question eviscerated, but the number of people he has sent from A to B is also in danger, their safety is also becoming questionable. Passenger safety also becomes questionable if they are not carried by rested bus drivers. And working conditions are clearly deteriorating, in terms of safety or even in terms of deterioration of health, such organizations do not help things. It's exploitation. Of course, we've seen this before, because at the time Mészáros took out 800 million dividends based on his activities in 2012, he paid 157 million wages to 225 of his employers in the same year. 800 million dividends to someone, the people he employs, who founded this activity economically, and 225 of them total HUF 157 million. The examples are there, and it is possible to start a planning process within the framework of public companies, but I think it is not appropriate, especially in cases where the safety of others is at stake. You know, when employment contracts are concluded, the definitions of working time and agreements in employment contracts are laid down as a basic item. Without it, employment contracts do not exist. According to the Labour Code, even today, as I said, they made workers more vulnerable in 2011, even in this law concerning rest periods, the distribution of working time within each working day or the schedule of work, in terms of contractual work and many other things, regarding the rules of availability - it was a very ugly word, it was made clear. Now they're trying to kick it, and now they're trying to get out of it. Now they want to increase this vulnerability. Relaxation is nothing else, it is the refreshment of the worker, the possibility of replenishment with new energies, you might say, it serves a great deal. In this version, which you have just displayed in the walls of Parliament, this cannot be created. Of course, there are situations in which, in a sense, you have to step out of the framework of general regulation, but not generate, I repeat, not generate, and not in cases that have an impact on the lives of others. You know, for two consecutive working days, a rest period of 22 hours should be available for general labour standards. If they're just logically running the story we're talking about, it's going to fall apart, it can't be done. For this to be realised, it is necessary to recruit a multitude of new workers, which must not be talked about, but to do what must be paid to become attractive, and then the conditions for this can be created. But today's exercise, it doesn't seem to be about that. And there is also a regulation of the world of work about, for example, the need to spare young workers in a good sense. Young workers must have a minimum daily rest period of 12 hours. How do you think these frameworks will be respected? Once again, what about traveling to work and returning home, the duration of the transfer and much more? These are not included in the rest period, but they take away the opportunity to really rest in the affected person's time. You can't, you can't support this bill with common sense. Not even because they do this without consulting or talking to the relevant trade unions or representatives. They're calling for worse working conditions than they already are. They do not provide the employee with what is today. They don't make better, they do better, they don't provide what's today. This therefore leads to a deterioration of working conditions, against the safety of workers and against the protection of workers' health. The government, in my view and belief, is endangering the situation of the multitude of stakeholders who use these services by adopting this bill. So in Hungarian, they also threaten the safety of passengers. That's what we're talking about here, a lot of lives that need to get there to do work, and they need to get back, because their families are waiting for them. A bill that directly affects the interests of workers cannot be supported, cannot be supported by common sense. Obviously, the world of work is where flexibility must be given to the employer, but on the other hand, security must also be created for the worker. You need to be able to create both of them together, not just one. For the seventh year now, you are constantly forgetting that workers' safety, better living conditions are being established, and you are only interested in how they serve the needs of employers. Once again, one of the ugliest stories of this bill is that, within the framework of the rest period, you should account for the availability period against which remuneration should appear. So think about it and reevaluate the situation. You don't want to vote for a law that endangers or reduces the safety of people. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-02-22-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, once again, Mr Mihály Witzmann from the Fidesz Group has spoken. Here you go, Congressman. [[12.40]]
u2017-02-22-45	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to respond to a few things. I think that much has been said here in the debate, but my fellow opposition Members may, in principle, not with me, perhaps not with my fellow Member speaking from the lines of KDNP, not with the Secretary of State at this meeting today, but rather with the European Union. You should discuss these professional issues. I think that, like us, opposition speakers were not transport professionals either. We're trying to translate the information, the knowledge that's going to get to us, to them, to you. They should rather argue with transport professionals; they should argue with professional organisations such as the Road Transport Company Association, which, in fact, participated in the preparation of this proposal, if my information is correct. The change was also required for Hungary by the European Union, precisely on the basis of the harmonisation of EU legislation. So that's why, I understand, this is the proposal, and that's why this change had to be started. This draft legislation was born as a result of a joint bilateral consultation, which we have the opportunity to discuss and debate here today, and according to the information received to me, it has been precisely coordinated, among other things, with the aforementioned Association of Road Transport Enterprises. Unlike my fellow Members, I do not take the liberty of doubting either the material developed and put before us by the competent ministry or the State Secretariat. Of course, I think that my fellow opposition Members should appear as an automatic reflection of this. To talk about specifics, there has been a criticism here that drivers working on flights are not provided with adequate rest or that they do not have the appropriate guarantees. I must admit, once again, that I am not a professional, but based on or referring to the impact assessment carried out by the aforementioned association, this impact assessment will say if you have read that the proposed change contains a number of guarantees that sufficient rest is available for workers. Then, as a criticism, it was said that regulation under the proposal could lead to a reduction in workers' income. I can refer once again to the position of the aforementioned association, which states that any changes in earnings can be compensated and brought into line by the employer with the change of employment. It has been said, precisely on the part of the KDNP speaker, but I also stressed in my speech as the lead speaker that we are talking about the entry into force of this draft law on 1 January 2018, so I think that there is time to prepare for both the professional organisations and the professionals involved in this. However, I do find it a little strange when my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, Member, as MSZP Member, as a Member who has had the opportunity to govern in this country, talks about wage increases and employment expansion, and is concerned about this. We know very well that there have been wage cuts during their governance, restrictions, wage increases during the Fidesz-KDNP administration and economic growth. Indeed, the Socialists should not have to worry about employment, since we know that they have been able to generate 12 percent unemployment, as opposed to the 4.4 percent employment that we are now experiencing during the civil government. I do not want to turn away from this bill, but I do think that it was necessary to respond to it. Finally, I think or think that if we do not have the right regulatory environment - by the way, in relation to perceived or legitimate or legitimate opinions, I will say once again that we are not transport professionals here - then I think that there will be an opportunity for the EU to renegotiate these detailed conditions and marginal conditions of regulation. We also know that today Hungary has a government that does not hesitate when it has to engage in some kind of dispute or conflict with the European Union in the interests of the Hungarian people. That is why I think that if this is necessary, we will have all kinds of guarantees in the future. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-02-22-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a two-minute speech, Mr Nándor Gúr applied. Here you go.
u2017-02-22-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are discussing the matter here in the context of a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council - in the context of a directive - which means that it is not the reference to it that we should talk about, but, in this context, in the framework of the Hungarian legislation, we must establish a regulatory system that is in the interest of the Hungarian working people - and that is contrary to that. Single transport organisations, trade unions, as I have said, do not, to my knowledge, support this thinking. It's not just about resting, no! I could give you a more extreme example. There is a bus route in Budapest that does not have basic hygiene conditions at the two end points. If you have a grip, you can't leave. Where are you going to settle your business? I don't want to get to the level of primitiveness that what you can do at any time in six seconds, because you're going out here, in the hallway, and you're doing your job in the bathroom, the bus driver can't do that, and you've been forced to do it because you've stopped somewhere near an underpass room on the way because you had to do your job. Basic conditions should be ensured, gentlemen, not only in terms of ensuring rest, but also in terms of hygiene and other aspects. But if you're talking about incomes, I'll just say one sentence to you. You really could raise the gross - those very much. And then they took more contributions from people and employers, and they scattered it around with friends. I'm not even talking about 27 percent VAT and other things. So these should be changed, and then maybe we could talk about something else and something else. Mr. President. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-22-48	Thank you very much. I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. Congressman Nándor Gúr, if you would like to speak again... [[Nándor Gúr: No, that's wrong.]] But it's marked... [[Nándor Gúr: Wrong, sorry.]] Okay, thank you very much. That's what I wanted to ask you, thank you very much. I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Róbert Homolya nodds.]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-02-22-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I thank the Members very much for their comments. I think that we may have been able to gather important experiences and knowledge for everyone, and that everyone must go to work, and that takes time. I think this is true not only for workers responsible for passenger transport, but for everyone - we have been able to listen to this for several minutes. Obviously, this regulation has not been dealt with in the present proposal. I would like to draw the attention of all speakers and Members to the fact that this proposal really concerns rest periods, and it concerns the regulation of rest periods and the fact that if, according to the European Union directives, we cannot give 11 hours of rest every 24 hours to those workers responsible for the carriage of passengers, there is a need for compensation in this respect. This proposal and this draft law provide this compensation to workers, which creates more positive and better conditions for them from previous legislation. But if we have talked about rest periods for a long time here, I would like to note that we have not talked about working hours, and we have also not talked about overwork. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the workers affected by the regulation work on a monthly working time basis, have 168 hours for 20 working days and 168 hours for 21 working days, and if they exceed this working time limit, it is too much work, they will be further employed in excess of work. Of course, overwork is subject to remuneration, so in this respect and with regard to regulation, such damage is not to be suffered by workers. I would also like to emphasise, while we are talking about the specifics, that last year, the government made 3-5 percent wage development for public passenger transport companies. [[12.50]] And here, too, we have heard very long generalities at almost apocalyptic heights. I think that, in the next period, the government is preparing to make a bigger announcement on what wage development it intends to do in this area. We are also talking about generalities and feelings that this proposal has not been agreed with the trade unions; I would like to reassure Members that this is a draft agreed with the Road Transport Trade Union, the Association of Road Transport Entrepreneurs, the Association of Hungarian Road Carriers, so it is not factual that the government would not have agreed with social organisations when it reviewed these regulations and made its proposal for an amendment. I would not go too far with the generalities and the evaluation of the government's work, but I think that there has been a lot of concrete in recent years, and I am thinking of saving foreign exchange taxpayers, cutting costs, economic measures that have kept inflation at virtually zero per cent, which obviously increased purchasing power, I think this is reflected in annual retail sales figures. So the negative picture we've seen here, I think it's not true, and the government's actions deny that. So in this respect, we continue to ask the Honourable Parliament to adopt the draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-22-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted on Thursday, which is 16:00 tomorrow. We now have a general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the draft law on the publication of the convention on shipping in Tisza until closure. Government referral T/13921. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Homolya, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. The time frame is 30 minutes. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-02-22-51	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, This bill provides for the publication of the International Convention on Shipping in Tisza concluded in 1955 between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The purpose of the bill is that the agreement with the Serbian Party must be incorporated into the Hungarian legal order and, under the law on procedures relating to international treaties, the publication of this international convention at the legal level is necessary to amend it. This Agreement was signed on 21 November 2016 in Niš. In 1955, an international agreement between the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia and the Government of the then Hungarian People's Republic on shipping in Tisza was concluded, and the Tisza Convention has been applied to this day. Under the Tisza Convention, it grants free shipping to vessels flying the flag of the States Parties, from the Tokaj to the clean mouth of the Tisza. As I said, only ships flying the flag of two countries are allowed to sail freely under this convention. In 2004, our country joined the European Union and, at the time of accession to the European Union, we also opened our national waterways to the EU Member States, while sailing to the water area of the Tisza is only possible through the Republic of Serbia, third-country, EU-flagged, civilian transport vessels can only sail on the Serbian section of the Tisza for a fee. Hungary is committed to making the river Tisza an international waterways road and becoming part of the TEN-T, so-called trans-European transport network, the waterway network, which requires the removal of administrative barriers to free shipping including third countries. The opening of the Tisza to international shipping is subject to the conclusion of an international treaty between coastal states on the declaration of the Tisza as an international waterway. The first step was to revise the previously mentioned Tisza Convention. The convention to be declared shall ensure free and open navigation on the river Tisza for all countries, regardless of the flag of the ships, and the scope of this Convention shall also apply to the river Tisza to the navigable part of the river which runs from Tokaj to the mouth of the river. We hope that the declaration of this section of the Tisza as an international waterway will contribute to the economic, touristic development of the region concerned, as well as to facilitating and increasing international freight transport by inland waterway. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament that T/13921. Adopt the proposed legislation and support the publication of the Convention on Shipping in Tisza between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-22-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Mr Attila Szabolcs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-02-22-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, The T/13921 ahead. Bill No. 1 seems technical, but it is very important. It is about shipping in Tisza, it organizes sailing in the Hungarian-Serbian border section. On this issue, until today, we have applied a completely outdated law, which has been in force since 1955, and which does not answer a number of questions. The obsolete legislation created by the then communist dictatorships will now be replaced so that we can apply a regulation appropriate to today's times. Hungarian-Serbian relations are getting better and more important. These relations are important not only because of our neighbourhood, but also become more and more important economically. Economic cooperation between Hungary and Serbia has been growing for years, which is beneficial for both parties. Economic relations between the two countries have become so important that the railway development between Budapest and Belgrade has also started. The renovation and expansion of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which will further strengthen Hungary's strategic role in this region, will make a significant contribution to the development of the region. The investment will lead the fastest route to Western Europe through Hungary from the ports in Greece to which large quantities of goods are transported from the Middle East and China. This is why China is an important partner on this issue, which makes a significant contribution to the implementation of this project. It also shows that the policy of Eastern opening is working well. I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the bill before us in the interests of strategically important Hungarian-Serbian relations. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-22-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-02-22-55	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, The Convention allows free shipping on the river Tisza for all countries, regardless of the flag of the floating establishment. By concluding the agreement, Hungary and the Republic of Serbia have taken the first step towards integrating the river Tisza into the trans-European transport network in the future and removing administrative barriers to free shipping including third countries. The declaration of Tisza as an international waterway may contribute to the economic and tourist development of the region concerned, as well as to facilitating and increasing international carriage of goods by inland waterway. Taking these into account, the MSZP parliamentary group supports the adoption of the proposal.
u2017-02-22-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Ander Balázs. There you go. You have the floor.
u2017-02-22-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have a fully eligible bill or an international agreement before us, but unfortunately it is about something that is virtually non-existent in practice. River freight transport and inland waterway transport would be a very important thing in Hungary in many ways, and we must talk about this on this occasion. [[13.00]] This is the mode of transport, which is the most environmentally friendly, which is the cheapest in particular, which is the least burdensome for the environment, the most eligible mode of transport from the point of view of accident and road safety. It is therefore incomprehensible that Hungary is not paying sufficient attention to this sector, this mode of transport. After all, if we look at how the boating in Duna or Tisza has evolved in Hungary at present, then we must see that the country is far below our capacity, compared to what is possible. Although I am well aware that there has been some HUF 50 billion in port development in recent years, this port development, which has been fully supported, does not actually benefit, because inland waterway transport in Hungary is pang. If we return to the Tisza, it is important to mention, I would like to mention, the history of the former yard near Szeged, which explains very well what has happened in Hungary since the change of regime and what has not happened in the 27 years since then. This yard had 360 people in its prime, and by 1990 it had been reduced to only 90 people. Then almost completely vanished since then, although sometime here 1500 tons of barges were manufactured, Polish and Czechoslovakian armies produced dot bridges, and here they made hundreds of ships. All this work culture, all this manufacturing technology, experience has been virtually destroyed by the sinful mistakes of the regime change. There should be a way to get up from this, to reach a level that would otherwise benefit the country. If an international outlook is made, it can be said, for example, that in the Netherlands it reaches 30 per cent, 30 per cent, 32 per cent in the goods trade. There is a very high rate of inland waterway transport in Belgium, but even in Germany we can meet 10 or a few percent. There is also Romania - to mention a state from the region - where it represents a 10% share. From around 280 million tonnes of goods moved one year in Hungary, only 3 million tonnes are transported during inland waterway transport. This means only 3 percent of the total quantity of goods and the quantity around them, which is a weak result. Unfortunately, it has to be said that Hungary is one of the last European comparisons, both in terms of water regulation and in terms of river freight as outlined above. We need to change that. However, this mentality should also be changed, and certain taboos should be broken down, because in Hungary, if we say that it would be necessary to build the water stairs in order to say that the Danube can sail for 340 days, then certain dark green circles immediately wind up and say that this idea is from the devil, even though perhaps the interests of the people living in the Danube or the Tisza basin should also be taken into account. I am well aware, by the way, that the graces which are feared for the Tisza water escape are very sweet, but there really should be attention to the needs of hundreds of thousands and millions of people living in Eastern Hungary. When the Secretary of State said that the Tisza should be developed into an international route, which, by the way, is fully supported by Jobbik, this matter should be further considered, because, as it stands, this will not work. The 1 meter 6 inches of summer water is making the Tisza completely unfit for what the Secretary of State has outlined so that it can sail to Tokaj. It's not gonna happen. We should raise the question of the water escape in Csongrád. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's right, I support it!]] Thank you very much, my fellow Member, for a supportive contribution. If we raise this question, it will indeed be possible to negotiate such international conventions seriously, until then it is all in the air, and it sounds very nice, but there is no basis for this idea at all. The same would be the case with the Danube. And why I'm talking about the Danube about the Tisza? Just because it should be seen in its complexity, and sailing in Tisza, it must be said, will not be if the Danube-Tisza channel is not built, which would answer several other questions, such as the desertification of the sandback. If that is not the case, if there is no such investment, if you do not dare to take it, because you are afraid of the power of certain lobbyists, then the ideas will all remain dead in the ashes. With regard to the Danube, Jobbik also states that three steps of water would be needed in order to approach the international numbers that, say, are typical of Germany in terms of inland waterway transport. If a person here raises environmental reasons as a counter-argument, then the German or Austrian example, which is really not considered to be some kind of environmental-destructive and step-dropping states with their own environment, should be considered. It should be added that the Danube has been piped in and there are dozens of water stairs and related power plants installed on the Danube. We should also think about this; and also that, if we are talking about the Carpathian Basin and a unified inland navigation in Hungary, about the upsurge of this, then there is a lack of coherence between what the Secretary of State has outlined, and once again, the Jobbik faction can only support it, and between training and the position that reflects, say, the position of Baranya and the Somogy county assembly. These general meetings have recently stated that there is no need to develop the Dráva water route or to build water stairs there. Once again, we are facing the neighbors on a case in which they should be co-operated rather than simply saying no to these ideas. The Croatians are planning five hydroelectric power plants for Dráva, which was swept off by the Fidesz majority in Baranya and Somogy county assembly, and they are not willing to engage in any professional or social debate about this anyway. They say they don't have to, without asking the people who live there what the real needs they imagine in their own habitat are. We need to improve shipping. Let me give you another plastic example. If only 20 centimeters in Hungary, say, the Danube water level, this is a 1500-ton boat, as far as the barge is concerned, means that 30 30-ton trucks will be released to the already overloaded roads. It's unacceptable! If, perhaps, I spoke about environmental aspects first, which not everyone likes, but believe that environmental aspects and socio-economic needs can be combined, then let me refer to the study by the Air Task Force that says that in Hungary, HUF 850 billion is being damaged by the traffic of heavy goods vehicles, which is rushing through us and which is complicated here. About 40 percent of this is due to international trade in goods. We can talk about hundreds of billion HUF items in Hungary. If you could shift only a small part of this to inland waterway transport, there would be huge amounts to be reimbursed or saved. [[13.10]] Although we obviously know that there are difficulties in this regard, the current economic requirements in the time of just in time require very fast and very precise delivery of ordered goods from A to B. This is why we should take the issue of water regulation more seriously in Hungary and not sweep it off the table out of sight, referring to small terns and pots. So, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik can nevertheless support this agreement, despite our criticisms, and we hope that there will finally be substantial work to be done in this regard, and that a significant part of the trade in goods over 300 kilometres in Hungary and a significant part of the transcontinental quantity that is rushing through us will be spread over this inland waterway traffic, which is, indeed, that it has small specific transport costs and is indeed environmentally friendly and environmentally friendly in the way outlined above. However, if you let these legitimate demands pass your ears, traffic safety will move in a negative direction here, and we can even talk about the fact that the emissions will grow in Hungary, which, obviously, no one needs. So, Minister of State, we can only encourage Hungary to be, say, a part of the Danube-Majna-Rajen system with champagne traffic, which stretches some 3,500 kilometers across Europe, from Rotterdam to Sulina, to make much better use of our capacities. In this, the Jobbik, I think, will give you all the support, provided that these investments, these projects will take place in a transparent, transparent way, not to increase friends. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-22-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Congressman István Józsa asked to speak in two minutes. Here you go.
u2017-02-22-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, This seems to be a very simple bilateral foreign policy treaty between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the amendment of this treaty on shipping in Tisza, but at the same time we must see that this convention can bring development opportunities to a whole region. The Tisza River used to be a river of life in that area in historical times, after the regulation of the Tisza it also made considerable trade in shipping, and unfortunately we have seen that in the last decades or even half a century, but that may have been an exaggeration, the river Tisza was very little exploited for shipping, even in the lower rivers. This Convention, albeit in principle, provides at least a legal basis for allowing free shipping on the Tisza River to be carried out by all countries wishing to benefit from it, regardless of the flag of the floating facility. In this way, the river Tisza can be placed on the international waterways, which, in my view, in the spirit of sustainable development, can rightly claim to be improved and increasingly exploited for environmentally friendly transport and transport. And I would also like to highlight the importance of the water escape in Csongrád, which would serve both navigation and the protection of the flood in the lower part of the river. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-22-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Róbert Homolya, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Róbert Homolya: Very briefly.]] Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-02-22-61	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank the factions for their support for the bill. I would like to stress that, with regard to the declaration of the Tisza as an international waterway, the first step is to announce this international treaty and agreement, and then we can talk about the fact that the Tisza will become an international waterways road, and then we can look at the future developments that can be made, so that this water route, a water transport route, can be maintained and that the people living here can benefit from it. Very briefly, just a few things about water transport. I think that the government has not been idle in this regard in the past period, if I just think that the government has started to develop larger ports in Győr-Gönyű, Komárom, Csepel and Mohács and the so-called Connecting Europe Facility, so that the Hungarian government has decided to support a number of applications for shipping in Duna in a CEF European Union, and this has also been successful with the European Commission. So I think that the continuation of the Danube shipping route and the associated improvements will start in the future, whether in ports or in river regulation. With regard to the water stairs and the linking of the Danube-Tisza, which, I think, has decades of literature - there may be decades of debate to achieve this - will open up the social and professional planning of the national transport strategy for the next period, and I think that these ideas and ideas can then be renegotiated. It's just a very brief comment on the water transport data. In this, Hungary is unfortunately lagging behind from these countries, for a very simple reason, because we do not have a sea. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-22-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted on Thursday, which is 16:00 tomorrow. The general discussion of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the publication of the Agreement on the maintenance of road border bridges on the Hungarian-Ukrainian state border is now taking place. The government referral is T/13922. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Homolya, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-02-22-63	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The cited bill provides for the publication of the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the maintenance of road border bridges on the Hungarian-Ukrainian state border. On the 136,7 km long Hungarian-Ukrainian state border there are four road border bridges, the operation of which is shared between the two countries. The owner and manager of the bridges are 50-50 percent of the two states. The management of the border bridges is carried out by the Ukrainian State Road Office of Ukraine and the Hungarian Public Road Nonprofit Private Limited Company. In connection with the maintenance of the border bridges, a direct and permanent link between the Hungarian and Ukrainian bridge managers was established, including continuous exchange of information and coordination of tasks. At the same time, it is essential to establish a legal background for cooperation and to regulate maintenance management tasks in a bilateral international treaty. The agreement shall specify which Contracting Party is required to maintain each bridge. The document requires consistency with the applicable legislation and technical specifications in the course of maintenance, the need to protect border signs, information barriers and other road signs. The agreement sets out in detail the obligation to provide information on traffic restrictions resulting from maintenance work, the acquisition of the necessary permits and the measures to be taken in the event of exceptional events. The document shall specify the cross-border arrangements for service personnel maintaining border bridges, designate the authorised bodies and competent bodies responsible for implementation and shall include the necessary closing arrangements. The signing of the agreement closed a series of negotiations since 2005. The agreement was signed by Dr. Miklós Seszták, Minister of National Development and Deputy Prime Minister Vladimir Khistion on 24 November 2016 at the meeting of the Hungarian-Ukrainian Prime Minister in Budapest. [[13.20]] I ask the Honourable Parliament that T/13922. Adopt a bill submitted to the European Parliament and to support the publication of the agreement and its annexes. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-22-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Attila Szabolcs. Here you go.
u2017-02-22-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The proposed legislation on the maintenance of road border bridges on the Hungarian-Ukrainian state border is the practical implementation of good neighbourly relations with Ukraine. Why it is important to ensure the interoperability of our borders is almost unnecessary for me to tell you, but the decency requires that I justify what the Government has put before this House. Ukraine is home to our most difficult Hungarian community across the border. It is a daily experience of how important it would be to have a quick passage through our borders, whether it is about our small border traffic or the delivery of aid supplies, so that we do not mention trade. Maintenance and renovation of common bridges is obviously also an important interest for a neighbouring country affected by war. It is therefore an agreement in which both parties are motivated. I have referred to Ukraine's current political situation, to which I would add that in this sensitive situation, all gestures are perceived in an understandable way by the people living there, so from a diplomatic point of view it does not matter what kind of relationship we have with them. For us, these bridges are also metaphorically bridges to Ukraine, but in practice it doesn't matter what our infrastructure is in the direction of a huge Eastern market. I could also say that we need to know where to build a fence and where to build bridges. [[Dr. István Józsa: Well, you shouldn't have done that.]] On the other hand, especially in the county of Transcarpathia, Ukrainians know that we Hungarians are one of the gates to Ukraine towards Europe. They went to war for this European direction, keeping this gate open for them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-22-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-02-22-67	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The speech of my colleague before me could have been given by us. [[Dr. István Józsa: Except...]] And 98 percent of us agree with him, so we'd like to join the one before us. I would like to make one comment: build bridges rather than fences, and I think that everyone will certainly benefit more from that. Overall, my Fidesz rapporteur was right to say that this is indeed a technical issue, but this is indeed of greater importance, since the Hungarian government has political and national political obligations towards Ukraine, and these good neighbourly relations are certainly served if there is cooperation in more practical areas of life and successful cooperation. This agreement or its content will certainly belong here, so let me say once again that I agree with my fellow Member, Attila Szabolcs, and the MSZP fraction will also support this agreement. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-22-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr István Apáti. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-02-22-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I don't want to start with the fact that at zero-zero, in the first minutes of the match, I'm getting into the Fidesz or the present Secretary of State, and I have no reason to doubt the Secretary of State's national commitment, but as this begins in the general explanation, it is quite sad for a Hungarian person, or rather shameful for a Hungarian person. Well, let's be a little more specific, though not just stylistically, but from a real national perspective. Záhony-Csop - that's not Csop, that's Tap. Tiszabecs-Vilok - Vilok in Ukrainian Vilok, by the way Tiszaújlak, is the Tiszaújlak, which is currently located in the territory of the state formation currently called Ukraine for nearly a hundred years. If they are so sensitive and so national and Hungarian, and in some places deep-Hungarians are the Fidesz MEPs, then such general justification should not be given from among their hands. This is not a peek-a-boo search, but it really hurts one's eyes and hurts a national emotional person, when the Hungarian Parliament talks about such a point of the agenda, there are virtually Ukrainian localities, Ukrainian settlement names, or Ukrainian city names. Please pay attention to this, and these are the two border crossings from the most significant list of four here. In order to avoid even the appearance of unnecessary poo-pooing, let me turn to the fact that the owner and the operator of the two states are 50-50 percent, so that I can say a few words about the situation of the Tiszabecs-Tiszaújlak border crossing point, because the border bridge at the Tiszabecs-Tiszaújlak border crossing point, which is currently supposed to be on the Ukrainian side, is in a catastrophic state, Mr. Secretary of State, may have looked better after a bombing of World War II. Somehow, the feeling of a man going on a quarter or fifth-rate road between Bucharest and Tirana is that a tank trap of potholes, as we say, is such a pothole that a sow would fall into it without even realizing the piglets, the iron structure of the bridge would be catastrophic, and I would not be surprised if a static test would result in a longer or shorter period of closure, and otherwise the possibility of crossing the border would be virtually shorter or longer. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs will take his place in the notary seat.]] So if one of those rare occasions is that we can talk about precisely such issues here in Parliament, then it would be worth paying attention to, because otherwise the road approach to this border crossing point is not easy, so the road section is in a very, very sad state, in particular, after Sonkad settlement. So when ten billion people are spent on road renovation, perhaps the approach to such an important, high-priority border crossing point should be taken into account in the internal section of Sonkad and Tiszabecs, and it would be worth setting the way there. I would specifically like to draw the Ministry of Development's attention to the need to put greater emphasis on and look carefully at the state of this border bridge at the moment, who is responsible for this, whose negligence has led to this, because otherwise traffic is huge, and not only passenger traffic, but also pedestrians and cyclists are using it in large numbers, and there is also a very serious flow of labour. From Transcarpathia to the truncated country, and, as we look at it, here with the various advertisements, you are practically lured here in better cases by the Hungarian, worse case, the internal Ukrainian labour force in Ukraine to predominantly agricultural seasonal work. However, this will be of further importance, and this traffic will increase, and the burden of this border crossing will increase, so it is not irrelevant at all to bring the roads and, by the way, the border bridge into an appropriate state. As I said, it's sad that if the Secretary of State looked at it, he'd probably have the same opinion, so please look into this very urgently. Here there is another series of questions about the same border crossing point. If we move from truncated home to Transcarpathia, we can see torsions of facilities prepared or prepared for freight traffic. This construction project was started on the Ukrainian side years ago or, if you like, on the Ukrainian side long ago, apparently it was abandoned, but this, if I count correctly, would allow freight traffic or truck traffic on six or eight or ten lanes, according to my memories two weeks ago, but this construction has stopped for the time being. I would like to add that, in order to transport the well-known agricultural products of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County to Transcarpathia, Ukraine or Russia, it would be of particular importance that the truck traffic should start or the freight traffic should start, but until the motorway of M49 has been built, it is better not to start, because this, by the way, from the border crossing point to the White Army - ask your fellow Member Attila Tilki, unfortunately, is not here if you do not believe me - and then Tunyogmatolcs, Győrtelek, Kossord, Mátészalka's inland road network will be completely destroyed. [[13.30]] Since the M49 motorway has been promised for 15-20 years to this area, whose citizens are both MSZP-SZDSZ and Fidesz governments regard it as sixth-rate or tenth-rate citizens, because when it comes to major infrastructure development, this poor area will always be backwards because there are no pro-government representatives with a strong interest in this area, so it seems that if this trucking or freight would start, it would probably have very serious disadvantages in the short or medium term, quite simply. Because the settlements listed, and we are talking about a lot of settlements, Mr. Secretary of State, at least 8-10 settlements in this section, among them Szabolcs County with Kisvárda, the second largest city of Mátészalka, until then I say that it is better to wait a little longer. This is very closely linked to the development of the road network, because if the section of the M3 motorway from Guardian to Csenger or Csengersima, which already concerns the Hungarian-Romanian partnership, is not built, before that time Tiszabecs-Tiszaújlak is allowed at the border crossing point, from here to Csenger, or to the surrounding area, I would say that the freight traffic allowed on it will completely destroy this area. It is important to see what the last few hundred meters of the road network of Győrtelek looks like in the inner area of Koscord and Mátészalka, and if, by the way, besides the traffic coming from the Partium, the truck traffic from Tiszabecs-Tiszaújlak will burden this area. Almost every month there are either fatal accidents or accidents leading to more life-threatening injuries, or accidents resulting in or resulting in life-threatening injuries. The roads are depressed, narrow, life-threatening, the interior properties are in a catastrophic state, and if the truck traffic from Tiszabecs starts, it is unimaginable how these settlements will cope with 16,000 vehicles/day traffic as already measured in 2010. So I would very strongly draw your attention to the fact that if, in the near future, there was a chance, which would be beneficial from an agricultural-commercial point of view, that this freight traffic would start, or that the Ukrainian party, with Hungarian help or EU support, would somehow finish this construction, which, again I say, would have economic rationality and validity, would only do so by aligning it with the implementation of the previously mentioned M49 expressway, and not take the necessary funds to Central Hungary again, because their representatives there are the stronger wolves in the pack and they will take these resources away, but they would be willing to coordinate this with the development of the Satmar and Sabolc region, and also with the development of the Bereg region. Of course, it hurts more for those who live there, who experience these unblessed conditions, and who see that often the right hand doesn't know what the left does, because as much as we would be happy to take our agricultural products to the east, because this would be a real escape from the Hungarian purchasing mafia - because only in this way I can name a significant part of the buyers, respect for the exception, of course - this would be such a disaster for road safety, road network and the state of residential properties. So I would ask for a feedback in the State Secretary's rejoinder, or if I didn't have all the information now, then I would be terribly honored if we could discuss this in substance within a closed deadline, and I would be able to get verbally or in writing positive and real answers as to how this traffic execution is, how the border crossing renewal is, what the border bridge is, and when there will be something at last about the often-flyed, but always-always moved M49 expressway. This is also crucial, not a marginal issue, which I am talking about, because if you look at the M3 being down in Nyírmada, in the vicinity of Vásárosnámény, and on the M49 we could join either the Partium or Transcarpathia, we could connect these regions, otherwise the settlements in the truncheon and the settlements and areas in the disconnected areas to the blood circulation of Western Europe. So I'm talking about strategic issues, but for now it seems that we don't know why the border bridge is in post-World War II at Tiszaújlak, we don't know when the Transcarpathians or Ukrainian side will finish this construction. By the way, it is in a rather advanced state, so we can see quite a large amount of bodywork on the other side of the border, and when it can be brought into line with the aforementioned road investment. So, in addition to naturally supporting this proposal, I would like to get answers to these burning questions, and I very much hope that the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County are as sorely hurt as it is that these works are being carried out, because otherwise we are or are not even there before 2010. And then it is certainly not typical of Jobbik in general that we are biased towards the MSZP, but one of the very few times when it is to be praised, perhaps the only time before 2010 is due to fairness, my fellow Members, because, to the best of my knowledge, in the spring of 2010, you took over this project, for example, if you hadn't ruined the normal operation of the fan to be subtle, then this M49 should have been built by 2013-2014 to Ököritófülpös. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's true!]] That's true. The representative of the MSZP then on the national list did more for this reason than your very famous individual representatives, who are very impressed with themselves that they were elected by individual representatives, because they were not chosen because of the logo, but because of their excellent, personal, individual quality, but let me not say what they did: they did nothing to make this project happen. And this is the real shame, ladies and gentlemen, that an MSZP representative from a national list will pass his term in such a way that he will, by the way, straighten up a 15-year-old omission, and practically so well prepared, impact studies, planning, licensing that virtually about 50 percent of this M49 could be built at a pace, a shot, with a momentum, and then, in spring 2010, they will sing the cheese out of the mouth of this poor and much better fateful neighborhood, so they will pull it all over, and perhaps this will not even begin until 2020. So feel free to take it personally if you think it's an insult in that sense, because I've just made a very serious criticism. I know that the Secretary of State is not responsible for this, and I know that he was not in a decision-making position at the time, nor am I writing this on your account or at your expense, but it is worth considering these contexts when some of us here praise their individual representatives for their performance. They do not bother to be here at the hearing of this item, though it is not early in the morning, and not late in the evening or late in the night, they could be here in peace, and honour and duty would require it. So I would like to ask for precise, precise answers to all these questions, to this question, now or within a closed deadline, from the Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-22-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I am now asking my fellow Members if anyone would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. From the MSZP Group, Mr Zsolt Lány applied. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-02-22-71	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to state what my fellow Member, Mr Attila Mesterházy, has already done, that we naturally support the proposal before us, and that the Hungarian Socialist Party Group will support and vote for it. However, what Mr Apáti spoke of as the lead speaker of Jobbik was a few essential elements and some important things. The proposal before us is trying to solve and resolve the problem of these four road border bridges, the border bridge in Zahony, Tiszabechi, Lonya and Nagyhodos. Not so long ago, when the Ukrainian Prime Minister Volodimir Hrojsman was here in Hungary, a wider package was discussed, let us say, by the Hungarian Government and the Ukrainian Government, and this was part of the maintenance and management of the border bridges in the bill before us. But it was equally important in this, of course, that the Hungarian government, Hungary, had given financial assistance at the time in order to resolve certain infrastructural developments and developments in Transcarpathia, which is very important and very important, because for the sake of the Hungarian minority in Transcarpathia, which is roughly 150,000 people, I think that every Hungarian parliamentary party and everyone in Hungary must make efforts to improve their lives, their living conditions and make it easier. [[13.40]] But, for example, with regard to the border crossing point in Nagypalad, in the list, they would like to see a smooth border crossing and border traffic taking place here. This, I think, is definitely welcome. At the border crossing point in Tiszabec, Mr Apáti highlighted the ill-fated conditions around Vilok - or Tiszaújlak with his Hungarian name. This is indeed, how should I put it, a very unattractive sight, and as part of the transport, we see that it is indeed a serious problem. However, we also need to highlight the border crossing point in Zahon from this point of view, which is an international border crossing point and the largest border crossing point in the 137 km Hungarian-Ukrainian border section. That border bridge, that border bridge in Zahon, is in very, very bad condition. There are several times when lane closures occur, or trucks or passenger cars are shifted from one lane to another, and it is felt when the bridge shakes a little from the way the truck traffic passes through. I think it is very important to maintain and manage these border bridges. I know that both states are, of course, trying to make efforts to make this work as best possible, but I think that Hungary may be able to make a small surplus in this, in the interests of the Hungarian minority, the Hungarian minority in Transcarpathia. In addition to, of course, talking for hours about how important border crossings are, how important it is that, with border interoperability, we can maintain international trade-economic and educational-cultural relations properly. Summa summarum: the state of the border bridge in Zahony is also important because, as I said, the largest border crossing point with the largest freight traffic. And if the border crossing point of the Hungarian-Ukrainian border with the barabás designation, the M3 motorway, is finally built, we hope, as soon as possible, it could facilitate a significant part of the freight traffic, but this would be the case if freight traffic could be solved at the border crossing in Tiszabec. I think that these are important issues and that we need to see a substantial link in this, which, as Mr Apáti mentioned, is that we also need to provide the infrastructure that has been extended to that point. In any case, I wanted to highlight these things in a brief comment, too, that what Mr Apáti said, real problems, real problems, the border bridge in Zahony also represents a major problem in this respect, as I say, it carries out and generates the greatest traffic. It would probably not be so much waiting at the two border crossing points either on the Ukrainian side or on the Hungarian side, which we hear on the news several times, that in Zahony there will be either several hours or several days of truck waiting or waiting for a car. Indeed, it plays a major part in this, if I may put it this way, in the condition of the bridge and the permeability of the bridge, as it is a narrow bridge where it can and can travel in one lane, both passenger traffic and freight traffic. The expansion of this would be very timely. I was trying to point out that we might be able to speed this up. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2017-02-22-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Róbert Homolya, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-02-22-73	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the support of the factions for the presentation. I would like to reflect very briefly on the comments made. One is that the maintenance and management of the bridge in Tiszabecs-Tizaújlaki was 100 percent tilted towards the Hungarian party, the Hungarian Road is the maintainer of this bridge. I think that, seeing the resources available, we will do everything we can to make sure that, indeed, the bridge is better, even with this agreement. With regard to the accessibility and road development of the region, I would just like to note that at the end of last year the government adopted a collecting government decision, which summarized all its decisions on Hungary's short- and medium-term road development. We're talking about a $2,470 billion package here. I think that all regions have benefited from these resources in accordance with their population, their economic development and their needs. Shortcoming investments such as the availability of Szolnok or Békéscsaba can be made, purely and exclusively from Hungarian budgetary sources. This was made possible by the state of the budget. This government decision, I think, is unique in that, outside the government decision, no decision on road development can be taken in Hungary. And in the presentation and in this resolution, it is included that, on a quarterly basis, the government will review these needs. I don't want to comment yet on things the government hasn't decided yet, but the development of the area we are discussing and which we are now citing is on the agenda for the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-22-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted on Thursday, which is 16:00 tomorrow. It is now coming between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Slovak Republic at the common border between the two countries, Abaújvár and Kenyhec 1 amending the Agreement between the municipalities on the construction of the Hernád Bridge and the connecting roads, signed in Bratislava on 27 June 2014 General debate on the proposal to publish an amendment until closure. Government referral T/13923. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. First, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Homolya, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[He replaced the gullible Dezső in the notary seat with Loránt Hegedűs.]]
u2017-02-22-75	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, This bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Slovak Republic at the common state border of the two countries, Abaújvár and Kenyhec 1 amending the Agreement between the municipalities on the construction of the Hernád Bridge and the connecting roads, signed in Bratislava on 27 June 2014 It provides for the publication of its supplement. This Hernád Bridge was implemented through a very successful cross-border cooperation between the two countries. The amendment aims at a technical amendment, a solution with a higher level of road safety. The bridge was expanded by a single console pavement, so the bridge was modified from a total width of 8.5 metres to about 10,675 metres, which is not the same as the data set out in the original agreement, so it was necessary to amend the agreement between the governments of the two countries, which was signed in Bratislava on 15 December 2016. In short, the Hernád Bridge between the two countries has become two and a half meters wider. I ask the Honourable Parliament that T/13923. Please accept the bill submitted and support the publication of Supplement 1. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-02-22-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Richárd Hörcsik. There you go. You have the floor.
u2017-02-22-77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, T/13923 before this House. The bill, as we have heard from the Secretary of State, provides for the completion of an international treaty. With this law before us, Parliament may authorise recognition of the mandatory scope of the amendment. As we have heard from the Secretary of State, the legislative proposal concerns the technical amendment to the Agreement between the municipalities of Abaújvár and Kenyhec on the recently delivered Hernád Bridge on 16 December 2015. So, basically, it's a technical amendment that the bridge is 2 1/2 meters wider. This amendment should be reflected in the text of the Agreement. This is a technical issue with which all governments, i.e. the Slovak and Hungarian governments, agree, and I hope that all political groups in Parliament will support it. [[13.50]] As the lead speaker of Fidesz and the regional Parliamentary Representative of Abaúj and Zemplén, let me have a few words about what this completed bridge means for us, why the operation of this bridge is important, and what new perspectives have been opened in the area of North-East Hungary, which has been misplaced by many. We are well aware that after the Trianon peace dictatorship, fate has led both the Hungarian Abaúj region and the Slovak Abaúj region to become the so-called sack region, and since 1920, the migration of young people has unfortunately continued. Thus, it is an old debt of policy in cooperation between the two countries to remove the isolation between the two regions of Abaúj. Maybe we can bring something back to develop the region. By the way, Mr President, it is our old debt to continuously assist the interaction between those on both sides of the border over our border, and to promote economic development by rebuilding old bridges or building new bridges, not only the Danube, but also Ipoly, as in this case, over Hernád. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, each new bridge heals old historical wounds, and so I could say that it is a basis for future close cooperation, conditions for free passage. Let us not forget that we are within the Schengen area, Miskolc and Košice, i.e. both regional cities are more easily accessible to all citizens of the region, i.e. Slovaks and Hungarians. And the Hernád Bridge especially brings Košice closer to the Abauji people. Let us not forget that Abaúj County had its seat in Košice before 1920, and the economy of the Abaúj region was also attached to it. Unfortunately, this stopped after 1920, and that is why the economic decline and depopulation took place in this region. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to briefly recall how the new public bridge was built, which, I repeat, after 71 years again connects Kenyhec and Abaújvár in Košice. After a very long preparatory process, the agreement was signed in June 2014. After that, the events, thank God, accelerated. The actual works could start in May 2015 and on 16 December 2015 the 61 metres long and 10,6 metres wide reinforced concrete bridge was delivered. It is also important to mention that 85 percent of the EUR 4 million investment is an EU resource, supplemented by the contribution of the Slovak and Hungarian governments and the two municipalities concerned. I believe that this bridge is an excellent example of good cooperation on the border and a targeted and effective use of EU funds. If there is a built-up object in Hungary, which we made out of EU money, the utilisation of this bridge is well demonstrated by handing over. Ladies and gentlemen, Since December 2015, nearly 14 months have passed, and the beneficial effects of the bridge can already be detected. The bridge reduced the distance of 22 kilometers between Kenyhec and Abaújvár to just 4.5 kilometers, and Košice is now directly available from Abaújvár, so that more and more families in Slovakia who do not buy expensive land or buildings in Košice come to Abaújvár and commute to Košice every day. According to Mayor Tamás Sivák, 20 families from Slovakia have come from Slovakia to Abaújvár and bought old houses, renovated them and settled so many. This also shows the direction that, thank God, the depopulation of the settlement has ceased. If we look a little further into the effects of the Hernád Bridge in the region, they can be clearly detected in several sectors of the economy. For example, in this winter period, when we are not living in the time of tourism, nearly 200 vehicles pass through the bridge every day, and this number is multiplied in the summer months. Of course, the next important step is to strengthen the way there, because we see a lot of problems here too. As a Member of Parliament in the region, I have the pleasure of hearing firsthand the experiences of local entrepreneurs, producers and farmers. For example, in the case of the Hollóházi Porcelán factory, the company and the museum visited significantly above the average of previous years last year, and there was a significant increase in the sales of locally sold porcelain. We talk a lot about job creation. One of the expectations of the Slovak party, but especially the Hungarian party, was that new jobs would be created with the construction of the bridge. Well, I believe that it has also brought the industrial park in Kenyhecen closer to the Hungarian party, which is creating new jobs for more and more people living in and around the Raven House, thanks to faster and easier accessibility. But even from the remote Telkina, it provides employment opportunities for more than a dozen citizens, reducing their travel time to a quarter. My fellow Members may say that this is only a few ten or twenty jobs, but it means a great deal to us in Abaúj. Therefore, citizens living in Abaúj feel that this bridge has brought us an important development opportunity. The above is complemented by ever-increasing cycling tourism. I also note that in the HUSK applications, Slovak and Hungarian partners and local authorities jointly submitted and submitted applications for the construction of the bicycle route, as cycling tourism is developing rapidly in this area. All of this is also from increased demand for well-read village hospitality. For example, the number of foreign guests registered in commercial accommodations in Telkibány only increased significantly compared to previous years. And of course, here are the castles, like the castle of Füzer, here is the unique tentaljaújhely adventure park in Central Europe for sports enthusiasts, and Sárospatak attracts bath enthusiasts in the much more important number than before, thanks to the Kenyan bridge. Ladies and gentlemen, The list could continue endlessly, but it is hoped that from this my fellow Members will see that the bridge between Abaújvár-Kenyhec connects not only two settlements, but it has also opened up new development opportunities for the whole region so far and continues. Ladies and gentlemen, The construction of the bridge has thus had a positive impact on the lives of the people living in the region, both in Slovakia and in Hungary. And by linking the two settlements and deepening their cooperation, the competitiveness of the disadvantaged Abaúj region is gradually increasing, offering numerous tourist opportunities in the Zemplén area as well. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support the bill before us. Thank you for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-22-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-02-22-79	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Member, You don't have to excite yourself because you think it's important for this bridge to be realized or developed. I also think that it doesn't matter how positive a local project can have, if it has a positive impact, it is a cause for joy. And I think it is also an important question that, for people living there, if the quality of life is improved - whether it is about going to work, tourism goals or in any way at work or in any other way - it is certainly beneficial. I would suggest to the government that there are still a number of such problems that need to be addressed in different border settlements. It is also worth moving forward at a slightly accelerated pace. [[14.00]] So we, for our part, consider this development to be a tool that dynamics the micro-region in terms of tourism, businesses, good neighbourly relations and much more. Therefore, the Socialist Party's faction naturally welcomes this proposal and its implementation, so we also support it. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-22-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Ander Balázs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-02-22-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is perfectly natural that Jobbik's faction also supports the construction of the bridge and its expansion with technical content and the resulting amendment. We consider it very important that the border Hungarians of the country torn apart in Trianon are able to draw close to each other by such means, and that family, friendly and economic relations between the divided parts of the country are becoming ever closer. This bridge may seem small or connect small settlements, as the population of Abaújvár, which remains in the truncated country, has a total population of 250 people, and the population of Kenyhec is not large, it has a total of 1100 inhabitants. However, the fate of this ripped settlement on the other side summarizes the sobriety of the Hungarians in the Highlands. I mean, at some point, it's still XX. At the beginning of the 20th century, this settlement was inhabited by some 500 inhabitants, and the vast majority of it was of Hungarian nationality, and by now the 2011 census found only 146 Hungarian lip roads in this settlement that came to Slovakia. It shows well the shocking demographic tragedy to which our highland national brothers are exposed, as before Trianon, a third of the territory was inhabited by Hungarians. According to the 2011 census, the number of Hungarians living in Slovakia was only 486 700, as shown by the 2011 censor. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] The emigration is tragic, the ageing and the population loss, and the assimilation that plagues Hungarians in the Highlands is even more tragic. In Jobbik's opinion, every step of this kind, whether Hungarian-Hungarian or Hungarian-Romanian, or Hungarian-Serbian-Hungarian-Serbian-related, helps to prevent these harmful and totally unacceptable processes from the point of view of the Hungarian nation. We will therefore support and support these steps in the future. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-02-22-82	Welcome, fellow Members. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I do not see a two-minute wish to speak, but I do see an application in a normal time frame, so I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény.
u2017-02-22-83	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'll let you know that I could've applied for two minutes. I won't talk too long. I would just like to point out that my fellow Member Hörcsik, the lead speaker of Fidesz, has already mentioned that it is his constituency, as he said, which is geographically involved in this particular project, in the project concerned with the bill before us. Mr Hörcsik said why this is important, since this bridge plays a very important role in the relations between the Abaúj region and the border on the other side of the territory of the Slovak State. I just wanted to point out that not so far away, another county, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, and my constituency, which is involved in the fact that very serious political, economic, cultural and sporting activities are also taking place in our area. A lot of people from my constituency go through either this bridge or elsewhere. Therefore, I just wanted to highlight what Mr Hörcsik said about why this is very important and what areas of contact this bridge can play a major role in, because I would just like to point out that it is also of great importance in the interaction of remote areas. After all, from the 3rd constituency of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, several smaller settlements and smaller villages also have a connection to the villages in Slovakia and Slovakia. And if there is as much opportunity as possible for residents to maintain the relationship in person, it is certainly welcome. So, as our lead speaker has said, we will also support the proposal. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-02-22-84	Thank you. I do not see any other speakers, so the general debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Robert Homolya, Secretary of State, if you'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] It says no. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area and the bill on the publication of three related agreements until closure. Government referral T/13928. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Mikola István, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2017-02-22-85	Mr President, Dear House, The purpose of the presentation on the agenda is to publish the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area and three related additional protocols. The Agreement on the European Economic Area entered into force on 1 January 1994 with regard to the European Communities, their Member States and Austria, Finland, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Sweden. Hungary joined the agreement with the agreement signed on 14 October 2003 and entered into force on 6 December 2005, which was published in 2006 by law. With the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union on 1 July 2013, it also committed itself to joining the European Economic Area. As a result of our negotiations with Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway on behalf of the European Commission, the European Union and the Member States, the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area and the three related Additional Protocols are as follows. The first is the Additional Protocol to the Agreement between the Kingdom of Norway and the European Union on a Norwegian financing mechanism for the period 2009-2014, with a view to the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area. Second, the Additional Protocol to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and Iceland on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Third, the Additional Protocol to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Kingdom of Norway on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The latter was signed on 11 April 2014. The Additional Protocol to the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area and the Norwegian financing mechanism between the Kingdom of Norway and the European Union for the period 2009-2014, with regard to the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area, has been provisionally applied since 12 April 2014 and the other two related Additional Protocols since 1 August 2014. The Agreement and the three additional Protocols listed are intended to ensure that the Republic of Croatia can participate fully in the Agreement on the European Economic Area. Accordingly, the Republic of Croatia becomes a Contracting Party to the Agreement on the basis of the Agreement and the Additional Protocols contained in this proposal, and the Republic of Croatia is added to the list of Contracting Parties to the Agreement. This bill provides for the publication of the agreement and the three additional minutes. I request the consent and support of this House for the legal publication of the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area and the three related additional protocols mentioned above. Thank you. [[14.10]]
u2017-02-22-86	Thank you. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor first to Attila Szabolcs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-02-22-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Dear House, The European Economic Area was established in 1994 and has been constantly expanding since then, due, among other things, to the fact that the new members of the European Union are actually taking part in this organisation together with EU membership. However, as is well known, the European Economic Area also has non-EU members, such as Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. The proposal before us is essentially a technical formality resulting from Croatian membership, but it is also a good opportunity to say a few words about how Croatia became an EU member. On 1 July 2013, Croatia joined the European Union, so we can say that Croatia has finally returned to Europe. This should be quoted, since it is clear to all of us that for centuries Croatia, belonging to the Hungarian Kingdom and to Roman Catholic and Western culture, has never left Europe, yet there has been a long enough time when Croatia was not part of a free Europe on its own accord, partly because of compulsion, in a different sphere of interest, in a different cultural situation, like the other former socialist states. It was not only the difficult socialist past, but also the fact that it belonged to an artificial southern Slavic region. In 2003, he submitted his application for membership and in 2004 he became officially a candidate country. However, Croatia has now faced two major difficulties: on the one hand, the delivery of war criminals has caused serious problems and, on the other hand, the development of a maritime border with Slovenia has caused problems. In 2011, Croatia found an important supporter of Hungary's accession aspirations. This is when our country became the President-in-Office of the EU, and one of our main objectives was to support Croatian membership of the EU. Croatia has not previously had such strong and obvious support. Despite the often strong counterwind, the Hungarian Government succeeded, since the Croatian accession negotiations were concluded on 24 June 2011, during the Polish Presidency, and on 9 December 2011 the Treaty of Accession was solemnly signed. Hungary approved the accession of Croatians to the European Union between the first countries on 13 February 2012. I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the T/13928. This is an important step towards completing Croatia's return in the field of formalities. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-22-88	Thank you. I now give the floor to Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-02-22-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Today, there are many items on the Parliament's table where the governing party and the opposition agree on the content of the proposal. It is no big secret, I suppose, that it can be concluded that the group of MSZP is naturally in favour of this proposal. Allow me to make one argument, which perhaps my fellow Fidesz colleague has not just said, so that Hungary is constantly pro-enlargement, so that it is constantly interested in and has made diplomatic efforts to enable the European Union and NATO to join as many countries in the region as possible. It's a historical tradition in a good sense, a diplomatic foundation, and I think that's the right thing to do. Therefore, it is also in our interest that if a country has already joined the European Union, this accession should be organised as quickly as possible, so that the accession process with Croatian accession should be completed institutionally in as many areas as possible. Therefore, we believe that the adoption of all such conventions by the Hungarian Parliament will help this process as quickly as possible, and could also provide Hungary with a kind of foreign policy advantage if we show the partner countries here in the region that the Hungarian Parliament acts quickly, efficiently and smoothly on matters that are important to them, so I would like to mention once again to Mr State Secretary that the MSZP faction supports this. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-22-90	Thank you. I now give the floor to Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-02-22-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill is necessary for Croatia's accession to the EU. By publishing these agreements, our Southern neighbour will fully join the European Economic Area. The European Economic Area is an extension of the EU's single market to countries that do not wish to participate in the Union's political community. Simply put, we are talking about countries outside the European Union, which currently means Liechtenstein, Norway and Iceland. By adopting the bill, a southern neighbour becomes fully part of the European Union's common market, which is a strategic step for Hungary, so Jobbik clearly supports it. In particular, if we also consider that this year is the year of St. Laszlo, and it definitely obliges us to recall and commemorate the eight-century Hungarian-Croatian fate community, which, with eight centuries of great importance, was once friendship in the spirit of the concept of the so-called two nations. We Hungarians and Croatians have been able to cooperate exemplaryly in this bloody region of Europe. However, in order for each such agreement or convention to be filled with real content, there is a need for more than a reenactment of the pathetic historical past and traditions, these would need to be filled with tangible content. However, if we are to think that the neighbouring areas of both Hungary and Croatia are the backyard and poorhouse of their own states, then it must be recognised that there is indeed a place to develop these relations, because the region of the Drava-mente has terrible problems both here and across the border. Then these relations will become even more lively and sparkling - we can't complain now anyway, because it has to be mentioned that Hungary is the fourth largest investor in Croatia, and for Croatians we are the 8th largest economic trading partner, and for Hungary in this order Croatia is the 20th. Our annual economic trade relations are also developing quite nicely, as the 2014 figures show that exports from Hungary to Croatia amounted to more than EUR 1 billion, to exactly EUR 1 billion in the area of this amount, while imports from Croatia to Hungary also moved around EUR 400 million, so all these statistics show that there is potential in the relationship between the two countries. They should be further developed, for example by developing and building infrastructure where appropriate. By the way, I am very sorry that you have left here, Mr Secretary of State, who might have been able to say a few words about how we stand, in this respect, with regard to the development of the Dombóvár-Kaposvár-Gyékényes-railway, what will be the fate of the extension of the 6 motorway, how will the M60 road be, when will it reach the Croatian-Hungarian border in Hungary, where exactly when it will reach the Croatian border, otherwise let us say, the 67 highway. It would also be good to have answers to these questions. [[14.20]] This is when we can see in reality how relations that we now refer to from opposition and pro-government benches will develop in the future. In Jobbik, we say that such relationships should be developed, so that we can help ourselves and, where appropriate, Croatia, not that the Lőrinc Mészáros stuffed with public funds will build the Croatian National Stadium in Osijek, God knows how many billion forints. And the situation of the Hungarians between the two countries, or even in Croatia, is not evolving with the fact that a billion forints have now been added to the football club in Osijek by means of state funds. These are the issues that need to be considered in connection with such a convention. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-22-92	Thank you. I now give the floor to István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2017-02-22-93	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words about Hungarian-Croatian relations in the context of the announcement of the agreement. We have to say that the many centuries of friendship between the two countries in recent years, unfortunately, the treatment of the refugee and immigrant crisis and the MOL-INA case have cast a serious shadow. This is why the LMP welcomes the fact that the two governments have been working on a settlement plan for exactly one year to restore and, more precisely, resolve all the tensions. The plan includes the re-opening of railway border crossings that are still not in operation, as well as the completion of the Budapest-Essék-Sarajevo motorway. The joint draft of foreign ministers also includes the reopening of rail border crossings and motorway construction. It is in Hungary's interest to count Croatia as a strong strategic ally, a strong strategic partner, supported by economic data. The neighbouring Croatia has been an important economic and trade partner for centuries. It's the closest exit to the Adriatic Sea. Croatia is an important export market, a major importer of Hungarian agricultural products, industrial products and energy sources. The volume of our bilateral trade increases year after year, and our commercial activity significantly improves our country's balance of payments. Transport and energy connections are important, the power lines are important, so our national economies are connected with a thousand threads. Hungary is the third most important investor in Croatia and Croatia is the second most important target for investments abroad from Hungary. Croatia is also the 14th largest agricultural export destination in Hungary among the EU Member States. Our cultural relations are excellent. The LMP considers it an honor to invite Hungary to the guest of honor of this year's Varasdi Oradea Festival. I would like to point out that in August of each year, the annual great pilgrimage of the Croatians in Gradisty is being held at Mariazell, which means that groups from Austria, Slovakia and Hungary from the Dioceses of Győr and Szombathely are on their way at the same time to pray together, sing, ask, wish and thank the Virgin Mary of Marizelli for the benefits of the weekend. Pastor István Dumovits led his followers to this pilgrimage more than 23 times, to which the parish priest Tamás Várhelyi joins. The event takes place annually, with the participation of Croatians from Peresnye, Croatia, Narda, St. Petersburg, Kőszeg, Csepregi, undi, Kopháza.Since 1993, a different Croatian settlement in Gradistyei has organized a four-day youth camp, which aims to meet young people, preserve Croatian culture and traditions, get to know the locality, and not least to enjoy recreation and fun together. The May Other in Politics welcomes and, of course, supports this draft. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-02-22-94	Thank you. That is the end of the keynote speeches. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate. The general debate is therefore closed. I will ask Mr Mikola István if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State says no. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Here comes the Government of Hungary and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies. a general debate on the draft law on the publication of an agreement on the status of the International Association's Budapest Regional Office and Global Service Centre until closure. Government referral T/13926. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I will also give the floor to State Secretary István Mikola. You have the floor.
u2017-02-22-95	Mr President, Dear House, The International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, known internationally as International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, is the international designation of the IFRC, one of the world's largest humanitarian organizations. 189 countries include the national association of the Red Crescent, a recognised Red Cross. The international association contributes to the development of national companies, supports their professional programmes, and assists those in need in natural and man-made disasters with the involvement of volunteers without discrimination. A headquarters agreement between the IFRC and the government was concluded in 1993 in Budapest with a regional delegation covering the South East and Central European region. Published in 106/1993. It was a government order. Regional representation initially focused primarily on conflicts in the Balkans, followed by an increasing focus on aid and direct programme implementation to strengthen the capacity of national companies in the region. In line with operational management reform, the organisation established five Zone Offices worldwide in 2007, of which the European Zone Office was installed on the basis of the regional representation base in Budapest. For the functioning and mandate of the zone office, the legal framework is set out in Additional Protocol No 1 to the 1993 Headquarters Convention - Protocol No 98/2008. It has been issued by a government decree - it ensures it. In 2015, the IFRC turned all its zone offices into regional offices as a first result of its full organisational review. With the objectives of the IFRC, i.e. the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, it aims to achieve further efficiency by outsourcing certain activities. In line with this, and building on the presence of the European Regional Office in Budapest, the management of the organization decided to install the IT department under the management division in Budapest, where they also want to employ prepared Hungarian professionals who speak foreign languages. As with other international organisations in Budapest, and in accordance with the agreements concluded with the IFRC, the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Companies in 1993 and 2008, the regional office on the one hand and the global service centre on the other, as well as the legal framework for the legal status, privileges and immunities of persons employed by the IFRC on the other. I ask this House to accept the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-22-96	Thank you. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Attila Szabolcs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-02-22-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, There is no doubt that one of the most important international organizations in history is the Red Cross. Henry Dunant was founded in Geneva in 1863 by a Swiss businessman after the Battle of Solferino in 1859. Since then, this is the only organisation explicitly mentioned and recognised by international humanitarian law. [[14.30]] Since its founding, he has served in countless conflicts of war and nonwar and emergency situations, helping millions of people. On the one hand, this service was possible because a number of states, organisations and private people supported the Red Cross, and on the other hand, because it has always remained true to its principles of humanity, impartiality, neutrality, independence, volunteering, unity and universality. The aim of the proposal before us is to announce an agreement between the Hungarian Government and the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Crescent Companies on the status of the International Association's Budapest Regional Office and Global Service Centre. This is mainly because the Red Cross expands its regional office in Budapest and installs the department under the management division in Budapest. The agreement, like other international organisations based in Budapest, settles the legal framework for the operation of the regional office on the one hand and the global service centre on the other, as well as the status, privileges and immunities of persons employed by the organisation. For this reason, I call on my fellow Members to support the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-22-98	Thank you. I now give the floor to Attila Mesterházy, head speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-02-22-99	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I say quickly from the very beginning that we naturally support this proposal, but I do not have to make any critical comments here, because it is a civil society organisation, as Mr Secretary of State has said, that it is one of the largest humanitarian organisations. My fellow Member Fidesz has repeatedly made a number of very good comments about the importance of humanity, volunteering, the work of civil society organisations for Hungary and for humanity. Mr Secretary of State also commented that the Hungarian Government is acting in the light of the objectives of these organisations when making such a proposal and is trying to help and support them, which is a very good objective. But an analysis of Amnesty International was published today, which does not paint such a positive picture of the situation in Hungary, which means human rights, political or democratic rights. Of course, the humanitarian objectives were damaged, because if we recall that when asylum seekers were in Hungary, the Hungarian government did not treat these asylum seekers in accordance with these humanitarian principles. We remember the television series where the refugees were fed as if they were in the zoo, the conditions under which these people were kept, and the government's clear objective is to act against asylum seekers in such a way that no one would want to come near Hungary by accident. Despite the government doing this anyway, it is not a destination country in Hungary. Not to go further into this issue, but still, if we are talking about this convention, we should put it here on Parliament's table, that the government is using a double speech in foreign policy: we are trying to comply in the field of multilateralism, and we are happy to make such a presentation, and then the government is acting in a counterproductive manner in its own operation, whether it is humanitarian issues or whether it is just how civil society organisations are supported and supported in Hungary today. A clear and clear effort is being made by the government to undermine the credibility of civil society organisations, especially those which dare to criticise the Hungarian government in any way. They use the same technique that many others today use to keep power, that when someone criticizes, they do not argue with the content of criticism, but with the person who says they are trying to discredit it and thus actually distract attention from the real content. So simply, while I would like to reiterate our support for this proposal, let me also wish that the government should commit to humanitarian action in the field of international agreements and such technical amendments, in addition to helping civil society organisations, but also to act in the same way as the Hungarian civil society organisations, and to encourage volunteering in Hungary, which my fellow Fidesz spoke about, encourage citizens to take part in the work of these civil society organisations and to bear criticism, consider criticism, and, if that criticism is justified, change the practice of the government or the legal environment. In any case, I would consider this to be right and saving for the successful future of the Hungarian nation. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-02-22-100	Thank you. I now give the floor to Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-02-22-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do not wish to abuse the very expensive time of my fellow Members, and I am trying to limit myself to what this proposal is really about. Of course, my task is simply to express that the Group of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary also supports the draft agreement between the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Crescent Society on the status of the International Association's Budapest Regional Office and Global Service Centre, which is a very long title, but what it actually means is that the management division of this international charity is moving to Hungary. Although the International Red Cross has had an office in the country since 1993 and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, this cooperation can rise to a more serious level with this agreement, with its adoption. Of course, it is only possible to contribute to this, every healthy-minded person thinks that this charitable organization has a very long history and a very big future, and Hungary can only benefit from a more serious relationship with such an organization. Although the contract itself in diplomacy can be regarded as a routine agreement and contains rights and concessions granted by the host country to the organisation, it provides them with these advantages and we are very positive about this agreement. We want, of course, humanitarian and aid organisations of this kind in the world to be needed as little as possible, because this would mean that there are as few conflicts in the world as possible. Unfortunately, this is not what we are witnessing at the moment, and they are not only using these organisations in war situations, or they are using all their tools and human resources there, but also at sites of natural disasters and natural events due to climate change that involve mass injuries or events that require large groups of people to leave the scene. Unfortunately, the number of these events is expected to multiply in the future, as regards forecasts of environmental and climate disasters. In this respect, too, there is a very serious task for this organisation, and unfortunately, the number of conflicts of war is not decreasing or decreasing worldwide, so it is absolutely necessary that Hungary also maintain ever closer relations with these organisations, and at this price, or under such conditions, so that they can take up as much space as possible in Hungary and move more and more of their organizational units to us, so that we can contribute to the organization's operations as effectively as possible. So Jobbik supports this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-22-102	Thank you. We have now come to the end of the keynote speeches. I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I'll ask Secretary Mikola if he'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-02-22-103	Mr President, Dear House, I just want to make a few comments. Of course, the Red Cross, the Red Crescent Association, serves a good cause, and we are particularly pleased that you are in Hungary. [[14.40]] I would like to note that this thirteenth organization, which has opened an office in Hungary as a specialized organisation of the United Nations, has opened a service centre, a service centre and a logistics centre. These include very important civil society organisations, such as UNICEF, which opened its second office. For the past two and a half years, 13 offices like this have been opened. The High Commissioner for Refugees, UNHCR, is particularly important, whose two central offices also operate in Budapest. The FAO, the large global agri-agricultural organisation, has a new office as a UN specialized organisation. Then we opened the second office of the World Health Organization, WHO, which is a world headquarters in Budapest; the entire WHO headquarters from Kuala Lumpur will soon move to Hungary. But I can also mention our other plans, the International Telecommunications Union, for the 150-year-old global organization, we are opening an office in Budapest this year, and we are under trial for the launch of the largest clinical drug investigation organization in the world, the EMA, the European Medical Agency. So Budapest is already the centre of such a hub for civil society organisations, UN specialised organisations, and it seems that interest is growing. Budapest is a good place, a safe place, and these civil society organisations receive good conditions for their operation. They love Budapest, and this seems to have many advantages for us. Thank you all for your support, it is indeed a good cause. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-22-104	Thank you. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. A general debate on the draft law on the publication of an agreement on political dialogue and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Cuba, of the other part, will follow. Government referral T/13927. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to State Secretary István Mikola, the author. You have the floor.
u2017-02-22-105	Mr President, Dear House, The purpose of the bill is to publish an agreement on political dialogue and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Cuba, of the other part. The agreement signed in Brussels on 12 December 2016 represents a sharp shift in relations between the European Union and Cuba. The EU's policy on Cuba has been defined from 1996 until now by the so-called common position. The common position which has been adopted in response to serious human rights abuses in Cuba and which makes any cooperation with the island country dependent on improvements in human rights and political freedoms. It is noteworthy that Cuba is the only country in the Latin American and Caribbean region with which the European Union has so far had no contractual relations. The slow and cautious economic and political changes in Cuba started in the 2010s have led both the European Union and the Member States to the need to develop a new foreign policy stance. Given that the most critical issue of the European Union-Cuba relationship and dialogue is respect for human rights, Hungary has insisted on maintaining the common position all the time before and during the negotiations for the establishment of a bilateral agreement, until it sees sufficient assurance that the Cuban regime is adequately addressing human rights concerns. On the basis of the mandate given by the Member States and the negotiating directives, the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Catherine Ashton, started negotiations in April 2014, concluded by her successor Federica Mogherini in March 2016. The human rights clause of the agreement resulting from the negotiations and the human rights dialogue launched in June 2015 provide Hungary with sufficient assurance to address the concerns raised above. In the spirit of dialogue with all layers of Cuban society, Hungary reserves the right to direct contact with the Cuban opposition. The issue of human rights is also on the agenda of the European Union, and in the context of the high-level human rights dialogue mentioned above, we are expressing our concerns, criticisms and raising problematic issues. For example, freedom of religion, freedom of the press, freedom of association, treatment of human rights activists, improvement of prison conditions, and so on. In our view, although the opening of Cuba is not expected to result in a rapid and spectacular change in the human rights situation which has been criticised many times by the Washington and the international community, it can be assumed that the Cuban Government will also have a relief in this area in the future. We cannot hide the fact that both the European Union and individual Member States have gradually developed their economic and trade relations with Cuba, while maintaining the common position. Today, the European Union has become the number one investor in the island country and the second most important trading partner. One third of the four million foreign tourists visiting the Caribbean come from the European Union each year. Over the past months, more and more EU Member States' leaders have made official state visits to Havana, such as the French President, the German Foreign Minister, the Slovak Prime Minister, the Czech Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, the German Vice Chancellor and the Austrian Head of State. They were also primarily aimed at developing economic and trade relations. Each Member State will compete with each other, and the European Union will compete with other global players, the United States, Russia and China, so that business opportunities in Cuba's tourism, the energy sector or, for example, in the so-called Marieli Special Development Zone, will be as favourable as possible. Hungary cannot afford to miss or voluntarily withdraw from this competition. Therefore, we must not give up our principles, but we must keep the possibility of future cooperation open. This is the purpose of this bill and the agreement to be published in it. By creating a balanced development of bilateral relations, the European Union is essentially looking ahead and looking forward to Hungary as well. In our view, Fidel Castro's death on 25 November 2016 will not bring about any substantial change in the country's internal and foreign policy in the short term, the former head of state and government has ceased to participate in active politics in the last eight years. Your brother and his successor, Raúl Castro, can be expected to continue a cautious, more pragmatic approach. Real changes are expected after Raúl Castro's retirement announced for 2018. Dear Parliament, We hope that the agreement and this bill on its publication will promote democratic changes in Cuba in the long and medium term. In view of this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept and support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-22-106	Thank you. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-02-22-107	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group expects the agreement on political dialogue and cooperation between the European Union and Cuba to open a new chapter in the history of relations between the EU and Cuba, and a balanced development of political and trade relations, from which our country will benefit. The Hungarian exports to Cuba in 2015 amounted to some 330 million forints. Importing is roughly eight of that. Havana's outstanding government debt to Hungary is HUF 4.3 billion. The most common way of resolving debt to other countries in recent years has been by letting a large part of it go. So there's where, more precisely, there's where to grow. But that doesn't mean we shouldn't be in Cuba. Thanks to the consistent policy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, we also have foreign economic attitudes in Havana, but it is not easy because the island country only allows foreign companies to enter its market with great difficulties. It almost does not participate in foreign investments because of the lack of capital. [[14.50]] However, Hungarian technology can be well linked to Cuban development needs and can also be used in the European Union. I am thinking primarily of the results of medical technology research that highlights international recognition. An important element of networking is the ability of Cuban students to study at European universities. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, there have been changes in Cuba that have not been seen for decades before - this has also been mentioned by the Secretary of State. I am convinced that these changes will be irreversible and will ultimately bring true prosperity to the Cuban people. Let us not forget that even though the Communists ruled for forty years in Hungary, they even came back twice afterwards, but the end was that today they are only competing with each other. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Fidesz Group, I propose that the bill be adopted. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-02-22-108	Thank you. I now give the floor to Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-02-22-109	Dear House, Like a real communist, I'd like to comment on today. It's not polite for the ladies to ask for age, but I'm afraid you had more to do with the previous system than I did, so it's a good thing that communism comes to your mind when it comes to this kind of discussion. I don't want to be rude, so I'm not going to give you another example of what else you think about. But that's why I'd rather stick to the subject. From a foreign political point of view, I really consider this change to be important, which has happened on one side in Cuba, and I think that the Secretary of State has rightly stated the criteria that we must stick to, regardless of the economic, commercial and tourist chance and opportunity that this issue gives us, because our pragmatism cannot override our values and the principles on which Hungary and the various countries of the European Union are based. So, in Hungarian, change is important, it is important to have a new direction, which is characteristic of Cuba in some respects, and that this is what the European Union has reacted to, but not only the European Union, because the United States has also reacted to these changes, even in the time of President Obama. So, in our view, the direction the European Union has taken is right and right. I think that it is the ambition or the Hungarian diplomatic requirement to have a common position on these issues, because it is important that we take a united approach from the European Union on almost every issue in the field of foreign policy. And it is true that I agree that this convention can open a new chapter in the history of relations between the EU and Cuba, and that a balanced development of political and trade relations can begin, and the agreement will also provide Hungary with the opportunity to stimulate the currently rather low trade flows. Therefore, therefore, the MSZP faction supports this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-22-110	Thank you. I now give the floor to Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-02-22-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Although Cuba is actually one of the last socialist states in the world, where there is a communist dictatorship in the political sense, despite all our ideological reservations aside, the Jobbik faction also says that yes, such contact is useful; it is useful to direct Cuba in such a way that changes can start. However, we would like to warn them from here that the only thing worse than communism is that it comes after it, at least in countries of unfortunate development and destiny. And if the Cubans are not careful, then the Cuban comrades can easily derail the hopeful regime change that the country is facing. And then it may very well be that the former Communist party functionaries will smuggle themselves back in the form of all kinds of new oligarchs and landowners, and I do not believe that this suffering people need this. The Jobbik faction supports this move. Yes, we realise that Hungary also needs to expand such connections. We hope that the number of Communist states will fall to zero on the globe, and hopefully within as short a time as possible. However, it is important to see that parallels can also be made here in the context of major politics, world politics and foreign policy, which are certainly a good lesson for the states in transition. After the discovery of Cuba in 1492 by Europeans, Columbus, he was a witness to very bloody historical events, the Indians were exterminated and brutal genocidium took place. The new invaders replaced Negroes from Africa, so there was a multiethnic society, since about sixty-sixty-six percent of the population of the current 11 million inhabitants of Cuba were black or amused. Otherwise, if such a change occurs and is derailed, those hidden, the tensions beneath the deeper surface may be intensified, and Cuba cannot have many futures, or at least not a better future. In any case, it must be seen that this transformation will not be easy, since the Cuban constitution in force is 62. It is true that some human rights cannot contradict or oppose the construction of communism, so in this form it will be difficult for those who want to change in Cuba. By the way, it would be unfortunate if they fell from a kind of small man after the change, since we have to see why the communist dictatorship, built by Fidel Castro, could develop. Cuba has been exploited, Cuba has been exploited by the Americans since 1898. In 1952, in Cuba, he came to power in the person of an infinitely disgusting dictator Fulgencio Batista, who, standing on the side of the capital, had sold out his country in contrast to the basic interests of the Cuban people, and the wiener of the oligarchs could rumble in this state inhabited by otherwise beautiful and friendly people. That's what the Fidel Castros have been up against. It wouldn't have been a problem if only the estates had been nationalized. By the way, most of these large estates over the thousand acres, United Fruit Company, were owned by an American company, but unfortunately they did not stop at this step. They built a communist dictatorship; they created in Cuba the Cuban mini-gulag network, the leader of which was Che Guevara, whose photo-booked T-shirts have many stupid young people running around in Hungary, instead of walking around in a T-shirt decorated with the image of a true freedom fighter, such as Sándor Petőfi. I don't want to multiply the word here, the point is that the future or the arches that may stand before Cuba is very, very dangerous. And if, after a change of regime, they turn back to the quasi-colonial state of Fidel Castro, then the already mentioned celebrity will rise from the already mentioned state. God save the people of Cuba. We from here, Hungary can only wish them success in their transformation, let a real economic and political change take place in this country. Get rid of the Communists, and do not do as Fidesz-KDNP has failed to do here in Hungary, and those communist shadows will no longer live with them as they do with us in Hungary. Consider, for example, the list of agents and the failure to disclose agents without which a clean Hungary cannot exist. There was a need for Lustration, my dear Mónika Dunai, in case you have mentioned the return of the MSZP gentlemen and the ladies of Congress here. Perhaps such a step could have been prevented here in Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[15.00]]
u2017-02-22-112	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai for a two-minute comment.
u2017-02-22-113	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of Attila Mesterházy's suggestion, I would like to say that he does also link me to the period before the first free elections in 1990, as I joined the Fidesz before that. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-22-114	Thank you for the addition. I do not see any other speakers, so the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] It says no. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. There is now a general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Additional Protocol to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, with a view to the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Government referral T/13929. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I will also give the floor to Secretary of State István Mikola.
u2017-02-22-115	Mr President, Dear House, The purpose of the presentation on the agenda is to publish the Additional Protocol to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, with a view to the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and Colombia and Peru was signed on 26 July 2012 and is provisionally applied with Peru from 1 March 2013 and with Colombia from 1 August 2013. Since the Agreement also concerns matters falling within the competence of the Member States, national ratification of the EU Member States is also necessary for its entry into force. This obligation has already been fulfilled by the Hungarian Parliament, and the agreement is the 2013 CLXX. has also been declared by law. Croatia joined the European Union on 1 July 2013. It was then necessary to supplement the Agreement, taking into account Croatia's accession, in order to enable Croatia to become a Contracting Party to the Agreement. As a result of the negotiations between the European Commission and Colombia and Peru, an Additional Protocol to the Free Trade Agreement has been drawn up under which Croatia has become a Contracting Party to the Agreement and certain provisions of the Agreement have been amended in the light of the accession of Croatia. The Additional Protocol was signed on 30 June 2015. Hungary has always supported Croatia's accession to the EU and, accordingly, we support the addition of Croatia to all international treaties concluded by the European Union and its Member States with other countries before Croatia's accession. I request the Parliament's consent and support for the legislative publication of the Additional Protocol to the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and between Peru and Colombia. Thank you for your attention. [[Mónika Dunai applauds.]]
u2017-02-22-116	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-02-22-117	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, According to this bill, an earlier trade agreement has to be completed between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Colombia and Peru, on the other. This is because, in the meantime, Croatia has joined the European Union and it must also be subject to the Treaty which was concluded previously without it. According to this bill, the parts concerning Hungary remain unchanged. We can continue to trade with Colombia and Peru under the same conditions, which have already been accepted by this House. To this addition, we ask your support, on behalf of the Fidesz Group, so that Croatia can share the benefits that the Convention negotiated by the European Union offers to the other Member States. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2017-02-22-118	Thank you. I now give the floor to Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-02-22-119	Thank you very much. Given that I have already justified our support at an earlier item on the agenda, I would just like to say that we support this, of course. Thank you.
u2017-02-22-120	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs, on behalf of Jobbik.
u2017-02-22-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As with the previous bill, this is also necessary because Croatia joined the European Union in 2013. The Free Trade Agreement with Peru and Colombia was signed in 2012, but it is only temporary since 2013 in the absence of sufficient confirmation. The treaty was concluded in the hope that Europe could gain a new market for its motor vehicles, luxury goods and chemicals, while the two South American countries received food and mineral resources. In the light of all this, the bill is of a purely technical nature. I have already argued in the same way why we support this in Croatia, so the Jobbik fraction will do, and we support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Dr. István Apáti applauds.]]
u2017-02-22-122	That concludes the speech of the lead speaker. I'll see if anyone wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] It says no. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The general debate on the draft Act on the publication of the Accession Protocol to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of Ecuador is now taking place. The government referral is T/13930. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. This is also an EU item before the Parliament. I would ask Mr Mikola to comment as rapporteur.
u2017-02-22-123	Mr President, Dear House, The purpose of the presentation on the agenda is to publish the Accession Protocol to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of Ecuador. Negotiations between the European Union and Colombia, Ecuador and Peru were launched in 2007 with a view to establishing a free trade agreement. The negotiations resulted in the signing of an agreement with Colombia and Peru, i.e. without Ecuador's participation, on 26 June 2012. Ecuador returned to the negotiating table in January 2014, indicating its intention to accede to the Agreement. The Protocol of Accession was signed by the European Union and its Member States and by Ecuador, Colombia and Peru in Brussels on 11 November 2016. For its part, the Protocol shall be applied on a provisional basis as from 1 January 2017 in respect of parts falling within the Union's competence. The purpose of the Protocol of Accession is to ensure that Ecuador can fully participate in the EU-Columbia-Peru trade agreement that remains in force. Accordingly, according to the Protocol of Accession, Ecuador becomes a Contracting Party to the Trade Agreement. Pursuant to the Additional Protocol, the provisions of the Trade Agreement shall apply to goods and services exported from Ecuador to the European Union or from the European Union to Ecuador which comply with the provisions of the Agreement. With regard to Hungarian-Ecuadorian trade flows, our exports were close to EUR 4.8 million in 2014 and exceeded the volume of EUR 5 million in 2015. Our imports were well below EUR 2.2 million in 2015. Enhanced economic cooperation is in line with the efforts of the government's Southern opening external economic strategy. I ask this House to accept the motion. [[Mónika Dunai applauds.]]
u2017-02-22-124	Thank you. I now give the floor to Attila Szabolcs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[15.10]]
u2017-02-22-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, We have a 1,800-page proposal ahead of us, and at first sight this may seem like a complicated topic. We have already discussed this issue once, because it is a trade agreement between the European Union and Colombia-Peru. This trade agreement works. It works so well that Ecuador wants to join it, and that is what matters to us now. In fact, the only substantive change compared to the original agreement is that Ecuador joins it. The proposal is so extensive because it includes a detailed protocol listing, inter alia, products with customs rules applicable to them, such as spring and spring sheets of iron or steel; this includes disc spring, flat spiral spring, screw spring, disc spring and springboard, clock and hairpin spring, spring for umbrella or sun visor or stick, with the exception of spring for shock absorber and torsion rods of Section 17. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want the point to be lost because of the details; this is about extending a successful trade agreement to make it even more successful. This is particularly important at a time when countless new trade agreements are being made around the world. Of course, we are not talking about an TTIP of uncertain status and not exactly popularity. For this reason, I call on my fellow Members to support this useful initiative. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-02-22-126	Thank you, separately for the technical list. I give the floor to Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2017-02-22-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The purpose of the Protocol of Accession is to ensure that Ecuador can fully participate in the EU-Columbia-Peru trade agreement that remains in force. Accordingly, according to the Protocol of Accession presented here, Ecuador becomes a Contracting Party to the Trade Agreement and Ecuador is added to the list of Contracting Parties to the Agreement. Pursuant to the Additional Protocol, the provisions of the Trade Agreement shall apply to goods and services exported from Ecuador to the European Union or from the European Union to Ecuador which comply with the provisions of the Agreement. That is why the Socialist Party supports the proposal. Thank you.
u2017-02-22-128	Thank you. I now give the floor to Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-02-22-129	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, On 11 November 2016, the EU, Colombia and Peru signed to join the Free Trade Agreement as the fourth party in Ecuador. In 2015, the EU was Ecuador's second largest trading partner, while Ecuador was only the 60th for the EU. The volume of trade between them amounted to EUR 4.6 billion in 2015. The EU mainly exports motor vehicles, alcoholic and agricultural products to Ecuador, while the South American countries mainly export bananas, cocoa and fishery products to the Union. Customs duties will gradually degrade for 17 years. The country had previously suspended free trade negotiations with the European Union for a period of time, but they were restarted in 2014. Only Bolivia has not signed the agreement from the Andean Community. Similar free trade agreements can be supported, as opposed to CETA and TTIP-like solutions, where, after the duties already broken down, the strictness of regulations and regulations is reduced by large capital, serving the interests of international large companies. However, what we can say here in Jobbik's faction is that this market, these three states, which bring together some 100 million people, may offer Hungary opportunities for Hungarian exports, mainly agricultural exports or machinery exports, because we should not forget that there are 50 million people in Colombia, 30 million people in Peru and 16 million people in Ecuador. Taking all these factors into account, Jobbik's faction supports this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-22-130	Thank you. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I don't see anyone who wants to speak. The general debate is therefore closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to comment. [[On Dr. István Mikola's signal:]] It says no. Proposals for amendments can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Interim Economic Partnership Agreement between Ghana, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, until closure. Government referral T/13931. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as an EU item. First, I will also give the floor to State Secretary István Mikola.
u2017-02-22-131	Mr President, Dear House, The Interim Economic Partnership Agreement between Ghana, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, was signed on 28 July 2016. This is a transitional agreement because a full Economic Partnership Agreement at regional level between the European Union and the 16 countries of the West African region is to be signed, with the entry into force of which the current Interim Agreement will be repealed. However, the signature of the regional agreement is hindered by certain partner countries in West Africa and Ghana initiated the conclusion of the Interim Economic Partnership Agreement in 2016 in order to regulate bilateral trade relations. The agreement will create more favourable market access conditions for Contracting Parties' companies in the field of trade in goods and services through tariff dismantling and regulatory cooperation. The European Union is Ghana's main trading partner, the total trade turnover in 2015 was close to EUR 6 billion, of which more than EUR 26 million were trafficked by Ghana with Hungary. In line with the southern opening strategy, Hungary is actively involved in boosting trade relations in Ghana, and the market access of Hungarian products and businesses is supported by the Hungarian National Trading House, which has a branch in Accra. Act L of 2005 on the procedure for international contracts 7. Pursuant to paragraph 1 (a) of Section 1 of the Act, the National Assembly may authorise the recognition of the mandatory scope of the Agreement. The same law 9. Pursuant to paragraph 1 of Section 1 of this Article, the agreement must be declared by law. I ask this House to accept the bill. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]] On the basis of point (a) of paragraph 1 of this Article, the National Assembly may authorise recognition of the mandatory scope of the agreement. The same law 9. Pursuant to paragraph 1 of Section 1 of this Article, the agreement must be declared by law. I ask this House to accept the bill. (Applause from the ranks of Fidesz. )
u2017-02-22-132	Thank you. I now give the floor to Attila Szabolcs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-02-22-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, If we look at Africa, then perhaps we Europeans can look at the young continent a little envious, on the one hand, with their average age and fertility indicators and, on the other hand, with their constantly growing economy. In other respects, Africa, with its 1.2 billion inhabitants, half of which today we look at the continent of migration less than 19 and a half years old with fear. But you can see the potential. Africa's potential is particularly true in certain areas, and one of the economic engines in the sub-Saharan region is in West Africa. Of course, Nigeria, a country that has become the economic challenger of the Republic of South Africa throughout Africa, has already preceded it in its economic indicators, but secondly, Ghana, where we have significant Hungarian interests, mainly in agriculture. That is why the Fidesz-KDNP government has reopened the previously closed embassies in Nigeria and Ghana in two countries where our relations have been good for a long time. This is one of the most promising branches of the southern opening policy. The bill just tabled aims at maintaining our trade with Ghana smoothly within the framework of the European Community. This is in Hungary's fundamental interest because it helps to diversify its external economic direction, and it has given us a bitter lesson in the 2008 economic crisis of our European external trade partners. [[15.20]] I believe that this is, therefore, a referral which enjoys the consensus of this House's fractions. I ask your support in this. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-02-22-134	Thank you. I now give the floor to Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-02-22-135	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, The Interim Economic Partnership Agreement between Ghana, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, was signed on 28 July 2016 by the European Union and its Member States and by Ghana. The Agreement regulates trade relations between the European Union and Ghana until the entry into force of the full Economic Partnership Agreement of the European Union and its Member States with the 16 countries of the West African region, which are currently to be signed. The agreement will create more favourable market access conditions for EU Member States and Ghana's companies in the field of trade in goods and services through tariff dismantling and regulatory cooperation. The Agreement also includes provisions for the management of technical barriers to trade, health and phytosanitary signatures and for improving the business environment and competitiveness, promoting trade and customs cooperation. Following the entry into force of the Agreement, its provisions shall apply to goods and services exported from the European Union to Ghana and from Ghana to the European Union which comply with the provisions of the Agreement. This is in line with Hungary's national interest, so the MSZP supports the submission. Thank you.
u2017-02-22-136	Thank you. I now give the floor to Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-02-22-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that Ghana, which is about two and a half times larger and 26 million inhabitants in Hungary, also has a perspective on bilateral relations, because the 8 billion HUF total volume of trade that has been mentioned here would certainly need to be improved. In Hungary, however, there is clearly potential for this. In our opinion, we could suggest to them, we could sell, we could export. And Africa would also need to boost the economy, normalise trade relations, because the brutal demographic explosion that is taking place on the continent will certainly only be manageable if we can offer normal solutions on the ground. I mean, you have to see that it's the 21st. By the end of the century, Africa's total population could swell from 1.2 billion people to 3-4 billion people, and if the current conditions persist, there will be a huge threat not only to African society but also to the entire globe. After all, no one should shake themselves into an illusion, this terrible crowd of people cannot be kept in an area full of deprivations and plagued by civil wars, these people will start, and then the wave of migration that we have encountered in the past year and the year before will be just a weak beginning to the storm that will, in any case, wipe out Europe as a whole, the European civilisation. In this way, I think it is in the interests of many of us that we try to deal with the problems that we have, even through such agreements. Therefore, the Jobbik Group will support this. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-22-138	Thank you. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to comment. [[Dr. István Mikola: No.]] It says no. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The general debate on the publication of the Trade, Development and Cooperation Agreement and the Additional Protocols between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of South Africa, of the other part, and on the recognition and publication of the binding scope of the amending Agreement, is now now taking place. The government referral is T/13933. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Parliament shall discuss this agenda as an EU item. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State István Mikola.
u2017-02-22-139	Mr President, Dear House, South Africa is the EU's most important trading partner in Africa. In 2015, total trade turnover exceeded EUR 44 billion, of which nearly EUR 250 million were trafficked by the Republic of South Africa with Hungary. In line with the southern opening strategy, Hungary is actively involved in boosting trade relations in South Africa. The Hungarian National Trading House, which has a branch in Pretoria, assists the market access of Hungarian products and businesses. Trade relations are governed by the Trade Development and Cooperation Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of South Africa, of the other part, signed in Pretoria on 11 October 1999, with a view to liberalising and extending the circulation of goods, services and capital between two parties. During the enlargement of the European Union, the new Member States became Contracting Parties to the Agreement by concluding additional protocols. So far, three additional protocols have been signed to allow the acceding Member States to fully benefit from the rights and obligations under the Trade Development and Cooperation Agreement between the EU and its Member States and the Republic of South Africa. Article 103 of the Agreement signed in 1999 provided that it should be reviewed within five years of its entry into force. The Parties carried out a review which resulted in an agreement amending the Trade Development and Cooperation Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of South Africa, of the other part, signed on 11 September 2009. The amending agreement supplemented the Agreement with seven new articles, thereby significantly expanding cooperation between the Contracting Parties. The Agreement and the Additional Protocols have already entered into force with regard to Hungary in international law, so that they are not ratified, but only their publication. However, the amending agreement has not yet entered into force, and Hungary must also ratify it as an EU Member State. Act L of 2005 on the procedure for international contracts 7. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) (a), the Parliament may authorise the recognition of the mandatory scope of the amending agreement. The same law 9. Pursuant to § (1) of the Act, the agreement, the three additional protocols and the amending agreement must be published by law. I ask this House to accept the motion. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]] On the basis of paragraph 1 (a), the Parliament may authorise the recognition of the mandatory scope of the amending agreement. The same law 9. Pursuant to § (1) of the Act, the agreement, the three additional protocols and the amending agreement must be published by law. I ask this House to accept the motion. Thank you very much. (Applause in the ranks of Fidesz. )
u2017-02-22-140	Thank you. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mihály Witzmann, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-02-22-141	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, When we are discussing a proposal for a bill to supplement the trade development and cooperation agreement between the European Community and the Republic of South Africa, we should in fact take the following into account in any way. The so-called southern opening strategy and the southern opening policy were launched by the Fidesz-KDNP government in the previous term because Hungary's external trade partners were predominantly reported by neighbouring states and other European countries and the United States of America. We can also say that this kind of external economic relations system has apparently worked well for years, but this one-sidedness has become truly depressing for the country's economy when the global economic crisis in 2008 hit the demand of this region most negatively. This is why Hungary's Government has decided to start changes in Hungary's foreign trade and external economic relations. The natural consequence of this repositioning has also been the intention to change the shares of Hungarian foreign trade distributed throughout the world. The whole point of the change was to create new markets in other developing parts of the world, with a more active role in the external economy, by expanding the spectrum of Hungarian foreign trade activities. [[15.30]] I would mention only in parentheses that the use of the Southern opening term in the case of the Republic of South Africa may be a little more nuanced, because the Embassy of Hungary in Pretoria, as the State Secretary mentioned earlier, plays a very useful role and is of strategic importance in relation to the National Chamber of Commerce. This embassy was so important in the past that even during previous governments, socialist governments, this foreign representation was not closed. In other words, there was no need for the civilian government to take action here to open a new embassy. It is also a clear fact that South Africa still has a significant political influence in the region and trades across the sub-Saharan region. Without exaggerating, we can also say that Hungary is currently the largest trading partner on the African continent. This is also confirmed by the fact that about 23 percent of Hungary's total African exports to the Republic of South Africa are targeted. This ratio, translated into money, currently represents a bilateral external trade turnover of around EUR 300 million, with a realistic opportunity for economic professionals to increase it to up to EUR 1 billion in about 3-5 years. I believe that it is clear from the data I have just mentioned that it is a very important strategic partner for the Republic of South Africa with which we have an interest in maintaining an unhindered trade relationship. To this end, the European Community can and intends to provide a framework through the draft EU law before us. That is why I call on my fellow Members to support the bill contained in this proposal with their votes after the debate has taken place. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-22-142	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2017-02-22-143	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I predict that, like the previous contracts, this is supported by the MSZP faction. But speaking of the opening of the East and the opening of the South, because my fellow Member Mihály Witzmann mentioned it, let me draw attention to the fact that these two opening policies are far from as successful as they appear in government communication. When it comes to numbers and reality, there is indeed something to criticise in the implementation of these two foreign policy directions. After all, what we see is that in the traditional relationship that a slightly devalued Fidesz fellow Member, namely, which means trade within the European Union, trade figures have increased over the past period, while in terms of opening up to the East and the South, or so low a basis that every increase compared to zero, this policy is difficult to interpret as a success at the national economy level in Hungarian. However, trade has indeed increased in traditional relations, i.e. trade within the European Union, or in relation to Hungary's European trading partners, as has always been seen in previous years. I wanted to add this as an addition to what you said. Nevertheless, it is useful and good to have a foreign policy looking for new ways, new opportunities for the country and supporting the Hungarian economy. I also have a debate with Minister and perhaps also with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that this can be done only and only with economic diplomacy. I think classical diplomacy is necessary, because these two together can provide the best efficiency. In Hungarian, classical diplomacy supports economic diplomacy, and vice versa, and thus it is possible to acquire new opportunities for Hungary. The other thing, which, while we are talking about and talking about, is perhaps a criticism that the business of the trading houses is not so successful, it costs a lot of money, but it works with much less efficiency. We also criticized this several times, several times at committee meetings or even in front of the press. But to sum up once again their views and views on this legislative proposal in particular, it is nothing more than support. Thank you.
u2017-02-22-144	Thank you. I now give the floor to Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-02-22-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The two parties signed the original agreement in 1991. Since then, it has been accompanied by a number of additional protocols, in fact due to the expansion of the EU. Now the treaty itself has been extended, which is being adopted by this bill. The parties carried out a review of the Convention in 2004 and decided to extend and extend it, which was finally signed in 2009. Seven new articles have been added to the agreement, corresponding to a new relatively well-defined area of cooperation with South Africa: the fight against weapons of mass destruction and their distribution, the fight against terrorism, money laundering, terrorist financing and the fight against organised crime, the production, accumulation and trafficking of so-called small arms and light weapons, the prevention of mercenary activities, the elimination of impunity and the enforcement of international justice, and cooperation in migration matters. One of Hungary's most important trading partners on the African continent is the Republic of South Africa, one third of the exports to this country. True, most of this is carried out by multinational companies. This country is also important because 54 million people live in it, it has a area of 1 million 200 thousand square kilometres, and it has the most muscular, sturdy economy on the African continent, with a GDP per capita of about $5,000. However, in the context of South Africa, in view of the fact that the day before yesterday was the World Day of Social Justice, which, in connection with World Day, extreme liberals speak in the name of all kinds of sayings, on behalf of such minorities, let us mention a very terrible thing that is going on in South Africa to this day. This is the actual reverse racism occurring after the end of the apartheid system. After all, the most threatened group of people in the world is the South African community of white farmers, with over a hundred murders per hundred thousand per year in the community, which is an incredibly horrifying number. It's actually a sort of civil war situation. In this connection, it would be very good if the world, the international public, exercised more attention and the Calvary of these unfortunate people could end here in South Africa. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-02-22-146	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] It says no. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. A general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the SADC EPA States, of the other part, will now follow. The government referral is T/13932. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State István Mikola.
u2017-02-22-147	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the States participating in the Economic Partnership Agreement of the South African Development Community, of the other part, was signed on 10 June 2016. The Agreement governs trade relations between the Contracting Parties, namely the European Union and its Member States and Botswana, the Republic of South Africa, Lesotho, Mozambique, Namibia and Swaziland. Angola has the opportunity to accede to the agreement later. The agreement will create more favourable market access conditions for Contracting Parties' companies in the field of trade in goods and services through tariff dismantling and regulatory cooperation. The European Union is the largest trading partner of the Southern African Development Community. In 2015, total trade turnover was close to EUR 73 billion, of which almost EUR 300 million were trafficked by the countries of the region with Hungary. In line with the southern opening strategy, Hungary is actively involved in boosting trade relations in the region and the market access of Hungarian products and businesses is supported by the Hungarian National Trading House, which has a branch office in Botswana, the Republic of South Africa and Namibia. [[15.40]] Act L of 2005 on the procedure for international contracts 7. Pursuant to paragraph 1 (a) of Section 1 of the Act, the National Assembly may authorise the recognition of the compulsory scope of the agreement. The same law 9. Pursuant to paragraph 1 of Section 1 of this Article, the agreement must be declared by law. I ask this House to accept the agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-22-148	Thank you. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mihály Witzmann, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-02-22-149	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the question of the importance of the draft law before us, and why it is important for Hungary to remove the barriers to trade between the European Community and the SADC, i.e. those of the South African Development Community, is perhaps a legitimate question. The EPA Group of the Southern African Development Community, the SADC EPA Group in short, concerns six countries, namely Botswana, Lesotho, Mozambique, Namibia, Swaziland and South Africa, and, as we have just heard, Angola currently has observer status, and it is also possible that it may wish to accede to this agreement in the future. The EU is currently the largest trading partner of the SADC EPA Group, which imports mainly minerals and metals from and exports processed products from the region. Overall, our trade with the countries concerned, including Angola, has amounted to some EUR 63 billion so far. In my speech, I would highlight only two countries: one Mozambique and the other Botswana, because it is a well-known fact that the diplomats of the countries with a serious and large economy compete for the favor of Mozambique, mainly because of the rich resources available there, and Botswana is now not only famous for its desert, its desert wildlife, but has managed to reach the world's top in recent years by mining diamonds. In part, this relationship, which is now to be confirmed, has been named by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, as has already been said, so-called the Southern opening, and has taken up diplomatic relations with this region, partly again, by the State Department, and has begun to expand the scope of the re-opening of foreign representations in this direction. An important event of this strategy based on new economic partnership relations was, if you will, the Budapest-Africa Forum, which was held in 2013, in which the President of the African Union Commission was also present. The success of the initiative, I think, is also well demonstrated by the fact that, since then, Hungary has been able to host the second Africa Forum, in line with the strategy of opening in the south, with the aim of engaging in increased dialogue with former Africans in Hungary, representatives of the Hungarian academic, civil and business sectors, and to build better on the knowledge and contact capital they have accumulated. Now, when we are negotiating an Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and the States belonging to the South African Development Community, we are, in fact, trying to decide to continue our economic cooperation so far. As the draft law before us fits well with the strategy for opening the southern one mentioned above, I would like to ask my fellow Members with respect to support the proposal with their votes after the debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-22-150	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2017-02-22-151	We fully agree, here in Parliament we are absolutely certain that Africa is also a major opportunity for Hungary, these conventions, these initiatives will certainly serve our national interests and our interests as a national economy. Since I am also a member of the South African Friendly Group, I could do nothing but support this proposal, but not only do I support it, but also my faction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Anita Herring claps.]]
u2017-02-22-152	Thank you. I now give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2017-02-22-153	Mr President, Dear House, Although I am not a member of any IPU, and I have no opportunity to participate in the work of friendly departments, I must say that Eastern opening, southern opening and other market opening processes could be fundamentally good and good. Obviously, we could have long debates on Eastern opening not only about loss of efficiency, but also about certain types of abuse. At the present time, however, in the case of the South African Development Community, I must repeat what we cannot stress enough in the course of the day: Africa, as has been said, is, in some respects, a range of opportunities, and, in other respects, a time bomb and a source of danger where future problems can be alleviated in terms of helping intervention, whether with regard to the people there or with regard to Hungarians in the long term. We cannot stress enough that once the Hungarian demographic vacuum meets the impact of the future billionaire, literally billionaire population surplus in Africa, that mixture can indeed create a disaster situation, which is what we need to prevent to the greatest extent possible, whether in terms of economic cooperation and not aid, but also in terms of improving living conditions there. For example, I look forward to it very much, not only from the representatives of the governing parties, but also from economic life ideas and forms of innovation, which may include the dissemination of agricultural technologies, the dissemination of water purification techniques, using as many Hungarian companies as possible, Hungarian achievements and Hungarian innovation tools. Unfortunately, we are now blowing off these seemingly binding ratification, treaty-binding, treaty-signing debates here, but there would be a great deal of room here for a vision to be drawn up at the moment by the government or by one of its State Secretarys, as they obviously have serious ideas about what can be done. The volume of EUR 63 billion that has been mentioned between Hungary and the countries concerned, I do not know how accurate it is, but it is certain that the magnitude of this could be increased in the future, in the near future anyway, and that Hungarian technologies that were able to present world- conquering roads even during the period called socialism, could spread despite all the maladministration and all the problems of that system. There were products that could be placed on the market, there were Hungarian brands that could be assessed, while, of course, the economy and all its benefits were robbed, but at the moment, unfortunately, we do not see one or two of them in a regional comparison, but not at all in a wider comparison. That is why we obviously support the signing of this Convention, the reviving of the work of the South African Development Community, using the work of that group. We must say that at the same time the taste of the mouth would be much better if it were not always for EU and not always for ratification pressure, but sometimes for the organisation of the economy, especially for the organisation of the foreign economy, and for the over-idealised Eastern opening, which would be very important and well done for the country, it would be worth taking other directions, so that I say once again, the most important thing is that the future billion-dollar population surplus in Africa should not come down to the smallest extent, but at all in Hungary, because it is clear that our current political leadership is not prepared to accept it, even the foreword, and the preface to do so. That's why it's best to avoid this problem, if not completely, but minimize it. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. István Apáti applauds.]]
u2017-02-22-154	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. The Secretary of State has indicated that he would like to make a closing statement. István Mikola, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2017-02-22-155	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to thank you for the acceptance of these ten draft international treaties by the Parliament, with tens of thousands of pages of professional material behind the short expoes presented here. I think that if Parliament accepts these draft treaties, this will have a significant impact on Hungarian economic policy and Hungarian diplomacy, so thank you very much for having us here, and thank you for the supporting comments and for the criticisms. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-22-156	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. No one has applied for a post-meeting speech, so I thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 11 a.m. on Monday. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 3:49 p.m.]]
