u2017-11-20-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 23rd day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that in the chair of this meeting, József Attila Móring and István Szávay will be notaries to help me. Welcome to our dear guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear Parliament, Today we begin our work with speeches before the agenda, from 11:50 a.m. to 13:20 a.m. for questions, and from about 13:20 a.m. to 14:20 a.m. for instant questions and answers. Finally, we will conclude the session of the Parliament with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Attila Móring József, from the KDNP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. According to the left, there is no quota, but he was voted for. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-20-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. The supporters of open society, the symbolic figure of idealism, György Soros and some Brussels leaders want to open Europe's doors to migrants. Their aim is to create a global open and multicultural society with no nations and no borders. Soros writes in his book The Open Society: I propose that the democratic countries of the world join forces to create a global society. Soros' allies voted last week for several points of the Soros plan. The outcome of the vote on the amendment of the Dublin rules has shown the influence of the speculator and his network on the decision-making process in Brussels, including the European Parliament. The pro-migrant proposals are receiving an ever-increasing level of support in Brussels. This is extremely dangerous for Europe and for Christian values. The proposal includes the automatic mandatory distribution of migrants without a ceiling, the punishment of States rejecting them by political and financial means, the active involvement of Soros civil society organisations in the organisation and implementation of immigration, the speeding up of family reunifications; the distribution of immigrants first and the subsequent assessment of whether they pose a safety risk. They would further reduce national powers and deploy decision-making powers to a central authority in Brussels. These proposals are all included in the Soros plan. It is particularly interesting that Soros visited Brussels a few days ago and, in addition to others, met Cecilia Wikström. It was the Swedish politician who presented the report on the basis of the decision to the European Parliament and one of the loudest pro-immigration representatives in Brussels. It is a striking fact that they did not want to vote on the proposal originally, and they wanted the text voted on at Commission level to automatically become the EP's mandate. Finally, by signing, inter alia, the Fidesz-KDNP MEPs, we have achieved that this text is presented to the plenum and an open vote is held. It is a shame that the representatives of the Hungarian Left, including Péter Niedermüller, Csaba Molnár, Tibor Szanyi and Benedek Jávor, voted in favour of this dangerous pro-immigration proposal, and thus betrayed the Hungarian people. The national consultation is taking place just in time, as we can see that the migrant-party proposals are receiving an increasing level of support in Brussels. The steps that left-wing politicians are debating the existence of, and which threaten our security and culture, are taking place. George Soros has an extensive network in Brussels. The publication leaked from their internal database lists 226 of the 751 MEPs as Soros's man, which means that according to the material, the Soros network has more reliable allies in the Brussels Parliament than the total number of the largest EPP factions. Nor is it surprising that some leaders of the European Union agree with the billionaire on a number of issues, including migration management. Both the President of the European Commission and the Commissioner responsible for immigration are attacking the Hungarian border fence. It is also interesting that György Soros visited Brussels the same week and met with the President of the European Commission, Juncker and two other Commissioners when the Commission discussed Hungarian issues. Immigration has serious consequences. Terrorist attacks are almost everyday in Western Europe, but most Western politicians do not see a connection between terror and immigration, and so do Hungarian left-wing politicians. We must raise our voice against this in every respect. Thank you for your kind attention. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-20-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Levente Magyar wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-20-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, A Member of Parliament is elected to represent the people, to represent his constituents, but the Hungarian left-wing and liberal Members did not succeed this time. A few days ago, the European Parliament failed to do so. Let's see what's happened over the years. For years, the Hungarian government has been saying from the beginning of illegal immigration that illegal immigration is dangerous, endangering our culture, endangering our civilisation, increasing the threat of terrorism and crime. Unfortunately, many examples in recent years have shown that the government is right in this regard, as hundreds of innocent Europeans have died and been injured in terrorist attacks by immigrants, and at that time we have not even talked about the various other crimes, the mass harassment of women. However, the Hungarian Balliberal MEPs did not recognise this threat, they were trying, in a shocking way, to bagate it. The Orbán government has built a fence, we have strengthened the living protection at the border, we have tightened up the relevant legislation and, thanks to it, we have stopped illegal immigration, but in this work we could not count on the support of the Hungarian opposition. Next, Brussels wanted to relocate illegal immigrants to Hungary by other means, if you like, because they decided on a compulsory resettlement quota in Brussels. From the beginning, the Hungarian government has rejected the compulsory resettlement quota, we are fighting against it, but we could not count on the support of the left in this fight, nor can we count on it. I must quote the leaders of the left, because we can remember, for example, that Gyula Molnár, President of the MSZP, said in September 2016: there is no politician in Europe today who would talk about introducing compulsory resettlement quotas in order to solve the refugee issue. And Mr Bertalan Tóth also said in September last year: there will be and will not be a compulsory resettlement quota. On the contrary, the reality that we all see is that the compulsory quota institution exists very much, so much so that the Hungarian government attacked it at the European Court of Justice, and Brussels has brought infringement proceedings against our country because we said no to the resettlement quota. The situation got worse last week. It will be increasingly difficult for the Hungarian Balliberal side to deny the existence of a compulsory resettlement quota, as last week Hungarian left-wing and liberal politicians voted in favour of the motion for a compulsory resettlement quota in the European Parliament. The European Parliament has adopted and even supported a proposal by the Hungarian Balliberal MEPs, which is extremely dangerous because it provides for compulsory resettlement without upper limits, facilitates family reunification and seeks to punish countries that do not wish to participate in compulsory resettlement. I would like to indicate that the stakes are huge, because there is nothing less than whether we have the right, whether we will have the right in the future to decide for us Hungarians who we want to live with in our own country and what number we want to live with. The Hungarian people clearly and unambiguously expressed their views on this issue in a referendum, more than 3 million people said no to illegal immigration and resettlement quotas. The Hungarian government has in mind the interests of the Hungarian people, the security of the Hungarian people, even if it cannot count on the opposition in this fight. [[11.10]] It is worth asking and it is necessary to ask what would happen to Hungary if it was led by the Balliberal side. In this case Hungary, our country, would become an immigrant country in no time. However, the Hungarian people do not want this, and they should also take note of it for the Balliberal Members. Of course, the question arises as to why they do not do so, why they do not care about the will of Hungarian people here in the Hungarian Parliament or in the European Parliament, why they represent something else altogether. Ideological beliefs? For financial reasons? Why do they represent an international billionaire instead of the Hungarian people, and why are they implementing his plan? In any case, they must account for their conscience, and we will register once again that we cannot count on their support. However, this does not change the fact that the Hungarian government stands by its position and opposes the compulsory resettlement quota by any means possible. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-20-4	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Member László Szakács, MSZP Group also applied for a speech before the agenda:. Why there is no money for this! " The title is given below. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-20-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I would now like to talk about a problem that, based on a lot of research, is the most important problem in the lives of Hungarian people, Hungarian families. He's not in second place, he's not in third place, he's in first place, and that's the most important problem. I believe that much more should be said in this House, and that is the question of health. Your Secretary of State, Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs, said that he was very brave when he made a research that revealed that 32 thousand more people are dying in Hungary today because of shortcomings in health care than many people should die. 32,000 more people could be helped, and he thought it was only a simple courage on his part to order such a research, and you were very keen to get health care in order. Let's see what they've done. Let us see what has been done for one of the leading causes of death, as regards cancer patients, in terms of oncological benefits. If you're over 74, you won't get treatment. You think this will be the solution. Why, Mr. Secretary, because you're no longer in the next election, are you not a target group? And then: now they've made a decision that doesn't make it personal, it's not for the best, it's not for the therapy of a cancer patient that's best for him personally, but the cheapest. There's no money for that, Mr. Secretary. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's not true!]] The use of PET-CT, which is the closest to early detection, you have made it so easy that it can hardly be used since then. The number of screening tests where a patient with cancer could be recognised as soon as possible will decrease rapidly. We have tabled amendments to these amendments. I saw the Secretary of State didn't like what I said. Then why didn't you support him? The amendment was tabled to give 77 billion forints more to cancer patients, without having to suffer from the budget of giving the cheapest medicines to cancer patients. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] If that's what this is about, if it's a simple budgetary issue, there's our amendment in there, why didn't they vote for it? They sat quietly at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and your representatives dared not say a word. Then when they spoke here in Parliament, they said they'd already given me 27 billion, that's enough. And then I thought it was better when you didn't say anything. We also tabled an amendment to hospice services. There it was much less money, 160 million forints. We're talking about hospice houses, where patients can spend their last days, months, who, unfortunately, can't expect a lot of good. We would have taken 160 million forints from the propaganda industry, but you are not willing to give up a poster, a poster, to improve the availability of either the hospice service or, say, cancer medicine, or, say, the availability of screening tests. He told me not so long ago, Minister Lazarus, that there are finally public procurements and procurements here. Let's see. You guys helped me get health care, you wanted monitors this summer, surveillance monitors. You know, sick people are being watched and told if there's a problem. This public procurement went so well that the Public Procurement Decision Committee imposed a fine of HUF 50 million, and then received a fine of HUF 30 million in ventilation machines. The Hungarian government, a public body, is not prepared to conduct a public procurement. Now, what's your logic and what's your answer to that? The person who conducted these public procurements, who forgot, for example, that the contract for medicines for cancer patients will expire, will now be Deputy State Secretary József Gajdácsi. It goes up, because it's the right thing to do in your logic. Because your logic is that you're not doing anything for health, because there's no money in it, there's nothing you can take out of it, and so there's no interest in what's always in this government, that I'm asking you nicely, where you can steal some money, you're doing a lot of it, and you're not doing anything else. You don't have enough interest in this, so you don't want to solve it. I believe that Hungary needs health care after a change of government that recognises that cancer patients have not yet had four years to recognise that they are sick; prevention and screening are given the right emphasis and that, with an EU level of pay, the emigration of doctors must be prevented. Today's news is that again, there are fewer, 324 doctors again. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] There's a hundred dentists out there again. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Attila Móring József takes the notary seat.]]
u2017-11-20-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-20-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Just to be safe, I'd like to start by saying that what you said about hospice or cancer drugs is based, as it is, on untruths, obviously based on false news. You have received these answers here in Parliament orally, and you and your fellow factions have received them in writing, but it doesn't matter what they received in response, because you say the same thing, whether you get the answer or not. [[Dr. László Kács: Past eight years...]] At the same time, let me remind you of what the Hungarian health system owes to the socialist era: the closure of the children's hospital in Svábhegy, the closure of the National Psychiatric and Neurological Institute, the closure of the Szabolcs Street Hospital, the closure of the Schöpf-Mere Hospital, the elimination of 16,000 active beds, the dismissal of 6,000 medical workers, the taking away of one month's wages from all Hungarian medical workers. And then there are other benefits, such as a visitation fee for all patients after every doctor's appointment, the introduction of a hospital daily allowance for poor, rich, pensioners, young people, so that pensioners can count how many days they've been here and how many daily daily allowances they can pay. That's a short description of what you can say about your activities in the field of health. Let's see what's real about what you've been saying in the last few minutes. During your period there was 600 billion HUF withdrawal from health care; the amount of the Health Insurance Fund that can be used to cure patients was reduced from HUF 1500 billion to HUF 1300 billion. He asked how much there is now: the Fidesz-KDNP government has raised over HUF 2000 billion what you took from 1500 to 1300. This is how we provide patients with safer care. [[Dr. László Cook intervenes.]] It is false news, honourable Member, that they would not be given cancer medicine over the age of 75. It's false news that anyone's cancer medicine would be decided on a financial basis. No, Your Honour. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Yes, you can.]] The lot that could be used to cure cancer patients a few years ago was only HUF 137 billion in the budget, and now nearly 180 billion. In recent years, we have increased the amount of items that can be used to cure cancer patients by 30%. [[Dr. László Szakács: Why does the head of the Institute of Oncology claim this?]] so that as many patients as possible can recover, and we hope that the procedure, purchasing order that you mentioned here can provide a further 300 patients with 2.2 billion forints this year's recovery. [[11.20]] What you said about hospice supply is also untrue, as in recent years the financing of hospice houses has increased by HUF 1 billion, by 24 percent, the money we can use for hospice, honourable Member. In recent years, therefore, these resources have increased. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] All good people agree that these resources should be further increased. That's right. There were only governments in Hungary that could only reduce these items. This is your period for taking away one month's wages for all medical personnel. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's not true!]] Tell me it's not true. [[Dr. László Kács: You haven't given it back in eight years!]] Tell me it's not true. You don't say that because you can't say that because you really took their wages from all 95,000 medical workers. Tell me that it is not true that the amount of the Health Insurance Fund has been reduced, because that is the case, honourable Member. But there are governments that can increase these items against you. You're smiling, of course, because for you, it's just a political attack attempt, you're not really thinking about the patients, you're not really thinking about the treatments, you're just looking for some news, you're looking for some false news about which you can speak up here in Parliament. Of course, there are plenty of tasks to be solved in Hungarian health care. There are two statements that no one can say, one is that there has been no progress in health care in the last seven or eight years, and the other is that everything is fine in Hungarian health care. We need to find the optimism between these two. We believe that by increasing the wages of health care workers, doctors last year and this year, with an overall HUF 207,000, we increase the wages of nurses by 65 percent in four years, that today the average age of ambulances is nearly a year and a half younger than when you were on the government, all of you are a forward-looking step. But in order for these processes to continue to turn in this positive direction, Fidesz-KDNP is the guarantee. Because if you come back, it will only be dismissal, austerity and privatisation, as it was before 2010. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-20-8	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, At the same time, Mr Bernadett Szél, Head of the LMP Group, asked for a speech before the agenda. We leave the figures, Minister, I see the world differently. You have the floor.
u2017-11-20-9	Thank you very much. Mr President, The title of my agenda before me was exactly, "Leave the numbers Zolika, I see the world differently."
u2017-11-20-10	Congresswoman, if you'll excuse me for interrupting, I've given you the same and I'll give you the same respect, and I think you can give it to the members of the government. Go on.
u2017-11-20-11	I'm giving everyone the respect, I'm just clarifying the title of my agenda, because it's in the history of the world. But then let's talk about what's really before my agenda, because today is a world day for children's rights, and I think it is essential to give students the best possible education. The real title before my agenda was that children are not getting the best possible education in Hungary today. In particular, Article 21 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 provides that: This is very embarrassing in the century, because in the world there is a smart revolution and the 21st century. Among other things, the winners of the 20th century will be students from universities that the respected Fidesz and even more respected KDNP want to shut down in this country. Let us tell you the truth: Viktor Orbán, current Prime Minister, wants to turn this country into a stupid country. The point is for you to have as little knowledge as possible for the Hungarian people, because it will be easy to lead them into a demagogic, silly policy that you are doing, and you can set these people up for different production lines, and you don't even want to pay them a lot of money. That's your philosophy, and that's what's behind the seven-year activity, which is about you systematically trying to destroy education in this country. We remember when Zoltán Pokorni spoke on educational subjects and wanted to come up with concrete arguments and specific professional calculations, the Prime Minister said that he cut the debate short by leaving the numbers, Zolikam, I see the world differently. Well, I'm afraid that the current Prime Minister doesn't understand anything about education, and it just seems that this whole story is too far away from the stadium in Felcsút. However, if you look around the country, we cannot give examples in public education or higher education that work well in this country. Let's check out the nursery and kindergarten seats. For years, I've been watching you campaign with unsponsored seats. There's a crowd there, and there's no crowd in your stadiums at all. Nevertheless, you build stadiums and don't make nurserys or nurserys in sufficient numbers. And in elementary school, if it's the world day of children's rights, I can tell you that there are situations that are equal to child torture. A child less than six years old goes to school with a six-pound school bag, sits there more than once for six hours, and these children face such a situation after kindergarten. Ladies and gentlemen of the State, please be kind and tell me you think it's normal to put a child in this position right after kindergarten? I think it is totally unacceptable, children are overwhelmed, but teachers are also burdened. There are often no textbooks, or, if there is, experimental textbooks with sexist and all kinds of exclusional content. Take a look. There are other women in this country like me who ended up in the economy. What do they think we feel when there is an example in my child's textbook that there is a picture drawn on it, and there is a pair of parents shouting, and one child asks the other what is this yelling from the next room. Well, it's just dad explaining math to mom. Well, you know, there are women in this country who explain their son's math, and yet they're salting these textbooks on our children! Not to mention, if we look at what kind of activity you guys did in high school, it's also very outrageous. The result of a 73 billion-dollar austerity package is that you have reduced the age limit for compulsory education in this country to 16 years of age. From now on, I can tell you that you threw away the future of children for 73 billion forints. I was in a small area where when students aged 13-14 were asked what they wanted to be, they said they were public workers because they saw that their parents had become public workers and that there was simply no breakout from the situation they were in. On higher education, I would just like to say to you that there is currently no Hungarian university among the best 300-400-500. This, let's say, was the case before, but what's happening now is that every year fewer students get into higher education, I think it's a national tragedy. Once again, the 21st. The winners of the century will be removed from universities such as the CEU, which you are about to shut down. Education is a priority for us at LMP, and if you like it or not, we will double the money this country spends on education in four years, because education is the best investment in the world. We need a common denominator. I think that everyone over the parties should support the programme of systematic renewal of education. But it is certain that the LMP government will at least double the wages of teachers, we will create a normal, liveable school for students, and we will give their schools back to the local communities, because we know that Hungary will be the same in 20 years as our education now.
u2017-11-20-12	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-20-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, In recent years, we have increased spending on education by more than HUF 500 billion. Tell me an OECD country where teachers' wages have increased more in recent years than in Hungary. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I didn't ask you that.]] You can't say that, Your Honour. But I don't really have one. [[Noise in the lines of LMP and MSZP.]] The opposition doesn't like to answer, it just likes to reveal. Of course, he likes to say that CEU is the best university, the whole country should be CEU. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: How many of you finished there?]] Obviously, such things can be said, but when faced with reality, honourable Member, it seems to me that your hand is also shaking when it should be said where there was another government among the most advanced countries, the OECD, which has raised the wages of teachers to such an extent. One or two of them are similar or approaching, but Hungary is very high in the fact that the wages of teachers in other countries have not increased as much as in Hungary. We did this precisely because the work of teachers must be valued, and the assumption is that educators must be properly paid. That's why we raised teachers' wages by 50 percent. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: And why did 5,000 teachers leave the system?]] And because of that, he's teaching two thousand more teachers now. Although it is true that the socialists, as they have already called into it, dismissed 15,000 teachers in Hungary in 2008-2009. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: They're retired, sir. Why are you confusing things?]] Madam Member, read the statements of your own friendly unions at the time, such as László Mendrey's, he did not say that they were retired, but that you had dismissed 15,000 people. Of course, he didn't organize a protest. But let me turn back to the LMP because the LMP faction leader said very dangerous things. Thus, the number of teachers' wages increased by 50 percent, and as a result, the number of teachers' students could increase from 10 thousand to 13 thousand, and therefore the number of teachers' students could increase from 6 thousand to 10 thousand, precisely so that teachers with the best ability in the future in Hungary would be able to become teachers and as many of them as possible to get as much as possible when there is indeed an ageing career in Europe. [[11.30]] That is why young people should be encouraged to do so, which is what Fidesz-KDNP has achieved. I do not think that others have had viable proposals, but Fidesz-KDNP has made a viable proposal, which has made a noticeable increase in the recruitment of teachers in Hungary. What would the LMP do with educators' wages? The average salary of a high school teacher in Hungary today is 313,000 HUF. Of this you have to pay HUF 46 798 in the current tax system. According to LMP, this high school teacher should pay 75,000 forints. So the LMP tax bill would draw 30,000 forints a month from the pocket of an average high school teacher, since it would not be 46,000 forints, but 75,000 forints. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You write things down, and you don't count them. But the Hungarian citizens calculate and see how much worse a Hungarian high school teacher would do with the LMP tax bill: 30 thousand HUF minus. This is 360,000 forints a year, which you would take with your tax bill out of the hands of an average-paid Hungarian high school teacher. [[To intervene:]] How much? [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: You're lying! We'd double their wages.]] How much? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Your tax system would tax a teacher in high school with 24 percent tax, which means that he would have to pay a tax of HUF 75,000 instead of a tax of HUF 46,000. It would be worse for a Hungarian high school teacher in your system. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The goal is to have more and better quality kindergarten and nursery seats. That's the common goal of all good people. There is only one government, the Fidesz-KDNP, that can spend more than HUF 100 billion to build new seats and make them more modern. Other governments couldn't do that. What you are saying about the textbook market: you made it clear that the Hungarian textbook market would be privatized again. With the privatisation, Hungarian families have not benefited in recent years. You said it here, too, but today you have a lot of questions about the issue of education, and they wrote in black and white, letter by letter, that they would privatise the Hungarian textbook supply again. [[Dr. Bernadett Szél, Ágnes Kunhalmi and Ildikó Bangóné Borbély constantly intervene.]] Privatization has always, in recent years, meant a price increase, which had to be paid to Hungarian families. Now, Fidesz-KDNP gives over a million students free textbook packages. You would privatise this area, which would cost families either directly or indirectly through the budget, honourable Member. I think that this logic in Werber, this rhetoric in Werber that you are carrying in this House, may not be sympathetic to the broad spectrum of voters. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-20-14	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman Ákos Hadházy asked for the floor on a point of order. I would like to inform the Member that he would like to take a look at the relevant part of the house rules, as a matter of order can be asked on the agenda, and this is a statement before the agenda. So on this point, if you insist, I would ask for the understanding of my fellow Members; then, please, you have a one-minute opportunity. You have the floor.
u2017-11-20-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your generosity. I'd like to put an end to a misunderstanding. You have obviously violated your duty because of loyalty to Minister Zoltán Balog. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Give me the motion.]]
u2017-11-20-16	Congressman, I must inform you... [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy continues his speech without making a sound.]] [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy continues his speech without making a sound.]] Congressman, after... Congressman! Congressman! Congressman, could I have your attention for a moment, please, to inform you? ! (Dr. Ákos Hadházy continues his speech without any tone. ) Would you mind listening? Please, since you cannot publicly criticise the leadership of this meeting in front of this House, I did not consider this a point of order, so I asked you to finish your speech. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group has applied for a pre-meeting speech. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-20-17	Mr President, Dear House, While the government is singing praises about the slow growth of the Hungarian wage level, they believe that it can be measured by measuring the development of Hungarian actions in euro, unfortunately we find that even the growth of Hungarian salaries is lower than that of competitors in the region. Indeed, we see that Jobbik's Wage Union initiative is more justified than ever, because if we look at these wages and salaries even in HUF and look at their composition, we also see that very broad social groups in Hungary must struggle under tremendous pressure for the very minimum level of earnings that makes it possible to remain. And if we confront the government's glory against some 600 thousand of our compatriots who have already left this country, then it is clear that the government is living in a false reality and is trying to infect public opinion with false news and false data that clearly distort the image of reality. Small and medium-sized enterprises give the most jobs in Hungary, their problems are constantly resonated, we display programme points to ease their situation, but one cannot forget a very wide layer of workers from multinational companies. We must say that Jobbik does not regard multi-company companies as an enemy, even if they carry out a mass of untaxed profits of the magnitude of a thousand billion each year. Jobbik clearly believes that they should be subject to public burden-sharing in a fair way, so that the same conditions of competition apply to all domestic and foreign players, small and large, where appropriate, but no one should be able to avoid public burden-sharing, as the relevant multi-company companies managed to do during the Regency of Fidesz. They succeeded, as this government rewards the relevant multi-enterprises with more dotations than the socio-liberal government period that I do not respect, whether it is about job creation grants, infrastructure investments or tax incentives. And we can also remember that at the Prime Minister's level, Viktor Orbán spoke from the mouth of the Prime Minister, in Saudi Arabia, if my memories do not deceive me, that the Hungarian labour code is quite flexible, the wage level is low, so investors should come to Hungary under the pretext of this. At the same time, Jobbik rejects this outrageous justification. It is not possible to take advantage of competition from the fact that the Hungarian people do not receive the compensation for their work, not even the minimum amount that, in the case of a German or a British salary, will be dwarfed. We also see that the government concluded strategic contracts with Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, not with Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, along with additional discounts, but with the mass of the multi-enterprises concerned. According to our intel, a lot of it was encrypted, encrypted. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] However, in one betrayal moment, we can be sure of the government's activities. Not as funny, Mr. Secretary of State as you think, because you have not, on any occasion, concluded the intention of slow catching up on Hungarian wages in your strategic contracts. So they delivered the Hungarian workers to these companies, and they actually let them do whatever they wanted to these Hungarian workers. Jobbik therefore considers the renegotiation of strategic contracts to be immediate, along a single very important line of lead, and that the slow but secure catch-up of wages must be made in these cases, since if any minister or secretary of state examines the already very low Hungarian productivity increase, he sees that the increase in Hungarian salaries is still below. So Jobbik wants our productivity at least as much as our productivity is slow, low, but it is growing, at least as much to increase wages and wages in Hungary. I mean, we're way behind this at the moment. The price is paid by Hungarian families and Hungarian workers. The final result is the amazing emigration spiral, which results in one in six children being born outside our current borders if we continue our investigations with regard to Hungarian children. Employee training should take place at least as much emphasis as 40-45 percent of the multi-enterprises involved do not spend any HUF to increase their employees' skills. We need to include rethinking public procurement, where, apart from your worth, we do not want pre-written tenders in the event of the victory of a Jobbik government, in the event of the establishment of a Jobbik government, but we want to clearly put those Hungarian companies in the position of beneficiaries who either do not reach the HUF 200 million revenue level or have a workforce of less than 10-20 people, but would definitely have a place in this system. Finally, the emigration spiral must be slowed down by transforming the vocational training system, and Hungary must create a suitable climate for all Hungarian workers who wish to operate here. [[11.40]] In this area, the government's range of actions over the last few years has accumulated tremendous betrayals. That is why the question arises as to whether they are willing to change the self-rewarding attitude so far. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-20-18	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds on behalf of the government. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-20-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, After this speech, it can be said that Jobbik's mouth blows cold and warm at the same time. Just what they're thinking, they say it at a given moment, and then they might say another thing the next minute. Because at a time when measures are being called into account in the government... I would like to mention what effective measures have been taken in terms of employment policy and wage increases in the past period, and I would like to remind you that there are settlements, one of which has been mentioned, where you give the mayor. They could've proved it there. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: What are you talking about?]] By the way, if they're in power, if you're in control, [[Martin Gyöngyösi: The economy is not run by the mayor! Dr. Bence Rétvári: You mean Ozd!]] If there's anything they can do to help the people who live there. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: The Ministry's job...]] In Tisavasvári, we can establish one of the country's largest unemployment rates. It's your fault, of course, because you could best help the people who live there. But back to the questions and topics raised by you [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'd like to respond [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] e.g. the extent to which emigration from Hungary is due to work. I have repeatedly recommended to you a 2016 UN survey showing how many of the countries of the European Union are going to work abroad or how many people live temporarily, for a longer or shorter period in another country. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: If it isn't because of coercion, Mr. Secretary of State.]] Hungary is one of the countries in the region that has sent the least people abroad to work. It is, of course, a UN survey. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: If it isn't coercion!]] When you're arguing with me right now, yelling from the lines behind me, you're not arguing with me, you're arguing with a UN survey. We have the lowest number of people leaving the country for work in the region, and we can even say that there are several countries in Western Europe from which more people have gone to work in other countries than Hungary. So it is not true that people from us are going to work in a rapidly growing way and in quantity. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] In fact, the data show that in recent years, thanks to employment policy measures, rising wages, people who have taken jobs in Western Europe are coming back to a significant extent. So the difference between the outwards and the comings has decreased significantly, and it can be said slowly that this difference will be balanced. This is due, among other things, to a significant increase in wages over the past period. While wages have increased by 4-6 percent in Hungary in 2013-2014-2015, wages have increased significantly over the past one and a half to two years, to a much higher extent than gross wages, not nominal wages, but real wages. This means that between 2010 and 2016, real wages in Hungary have increased by around 24 percent, and many have already been held here or just called back to Hungary, and in the last year, thanks to the six-year wage agreement at the end of 2016, real wages have increased by more than 10 percent in the last year, and real wages have increased significantly in the competitive sector, in the competitive sector where the majority of employment has otherwise occurred. Thus, it can be said that since 2010 until September 2017, as long as the last data is available, there has been a nearly 34-35 percent real wage increase in Hungary, both in the competitive sector and in the area mentioned by State Secretary Bence Rétvári, for example in teacher wage increases and other areas where the government had an impact. The wages of law enforcement workers, health workers, social workers have also increased in recent years. This is how we can say that real wages have increased by about 34-35 percent in the last six to seven years. And employment: Since 2010, more than 700 thousand people have been working in Hungary than before, and the number of people employed in the competitive sector has increased by more than 500 thousand, so the majority of those in the sector were able to work in this sphere. So I'm going to deny everything you said. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: It's not the same!]] I think that we should tidy up our own court, honourable right-wing Member, and not be accountable to us. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks. Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] in terms of the positive results that the statistics have shown over the past period, and otherwise, European Union countries [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: Stadium, not statistics!]] the European Union and credit rating agencies are recognised. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-20-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member István Németh Szilárd, Fidesz Group also applied for a speech before the agenda. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-20-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We woke up this morning, because after the European Union, György Soros himself filled out the national consultation sheet, gave an interview to the Financial Times - it appeared this morning - in which he denied that he had such an idea of the world that we would ask people here in the consultation, then went through his website at all seven points and said yes to all his ideas. By the way, in the Financial Times, he did not forget that the Soros plan he denied, if Hungary fails to fulfil it, the following must be done with the country, so he has disciplined the whole country:. The time has come for the governments of other EU countries to give a stronger response to the way Orbán treats civil society and also to address the fears raised about the rule of law in Hungary. So he pulled out the old tape and played it again. So much for George Soros. I think that nothing is more timely than the fact that the Hungarian people are now hearing this threat and expressing their views on it. Of course, it also went on Hungarian television, in parallel with an interview with Mrs Malin Björk, MEP of the Northern Green Left/Unified European Left, and she was also... - by the way, this lady is a member of the LIBE Committee and the right-hand man of her countryman Cecilia Wikström in this committee, so that the Soros plan can practically be pushed across the various legislative bodies in Brussels. Well, this lady said the same mantra. He was the one who once said that no one in Europe could be regarded as an illegal immigrant, so everyone who came must be accepted practically in accordance with Soros's wishes. And now he said in this interview that the reception of a few thousand refugees in Hungary would be particularly welcome. [[To Dr. Wind Bernadett:]] I see the candidate for Prime Minister LMP is very happy about this. Probably the two of them could agree on this proposal. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Do you want a report, Szilárd?]] Or if you don't, I think [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Do you want a report?]] or, if you have not agreed on this proposal, I believe that the candidate for Prime Minister of the LMP fully agrees with the Swedish political woman. Then he also threatens the country and says that if Hungary does not fulfil it, he would accept with understanding that some governments, even in the area of development funds, would have an impact on countries that always want to stay out of something. Of course, the Swedish states, the Swedes, are an example for us to accept what has already been achieved in Sweden. Fortunately, not only did he speak of the Swedes yesterday, but he was also the head of security, who gave only two figures. One is that the number of radical Islamists of the 200s has increased from the number of radical Islamists in Sweden to several thousand in seven years, and in 2016 there were 129 thousand sexual crimes in Sweden, while 160,000 illegal immigrants were admitted by the Swedes. [[Dr. Bernadett Szél and Dr. Ákos Hadházy step into the bench behind István Szilárd Németh and present a sheet of A4 on which the inscription is "Hazudik".]] So, it's very clear to everyone on the basis of these two statements, based on two self-confessions, that this Soros plan does exist, and this Soros plan has been completely pushed through the LIBE Committee and the European Parliament... [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2017-11-20-22	Excuse me, Congressman.
u2017-11-20-23	...which is all for illegal immigrants...
u2017-11-20-24	Congressman, excuse me.
u2017-11-20-25	...was born in his best interests. The essence of this is to have an upper time limit and a staff limit...
u2017-11-20-26	Please take your seats, Congresswoman and Congressman.
u2017-11-20-27	to apply a compulsory quota without... [[Dr. János Fónagy: Take him out! Martin Gyöngyösi: In fact, shoot him!]] , to be applied by the European Union. Mr. President. [[11.50]]
u2017-11-20-28	Congressman, please, let's hang him for a moment. I'll count on the time. Madam director, Congressman, take your seats. I'm warning you. Take your seats, finish the demonstration. Once again, take your seats. You don't? All right. Congressman, please continue, I will take the necessary measures.
u2017-11-20-29	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to stress that the Soros Plan and the resolution passed through the LIBE Committee, which was fully adopted and endorsed by the European Parliament in its 390-175/44 decision, so that a mandatory quota could be applied without any time limit for each Member State in terms of numbers. [[György Szilágyi goes to the centre of the Chamber and takes a photograph of István Németh Szilárd and the two LMP representatives behind him. President without his microphone turned on: I am warning Szilágyi képvítésítő, because he took pictures.]] And anyone who does not accept this must be subject to sanctions against the country. These sanctions will affect the catch-up and development funds [[Sándor Burány: What you're stealing!]] which, by the way, wanted to help the countries of Eastern Europe, the countries that joined them many years later, and to bring them to European level. The whole case is also supported by the formulation of a so-called family reunification criterion. Technically, groups of 30 can request their transfer to any country of the European Union [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Chief Speaker? Adam Mirkóczki: Time, time!]] which they choose for themselves, or if they do not choose, then they involve NGOs supported by Soros, funded by Soros, who, if they take care of these groups, [[Ildikó Borbély: Say it, say it!]] By the way, the money that György Soros paid, or what will be taken from the Hungarian taxpayers, can also be used in the country on the basis of the compulsory quota to receive these people. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: We want another 20 minutes!]] I ask everyone, the Hungarian people, the members of the Hungarian government, the members of Parliament and our MEPs to join forces on this issue. Our future depends on this, and let's protect the country together, reject George Soros. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Wind Bernadett and Dr. Ákos Hadházy will take their seats.]]
u2017-11-20-30	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that Bernadett Szél and Ákos Hadházy are Members [[István Szilárd Németh: Bernadett Szél candidate for Prime Minister! Cut!]] House rules 38/A. No application for an illustration has been submitted pursuant to §2 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: We don't criticize housekeeping!]] I will inform the Speaker of the violation of the rules of the illustration and initiate the necessary fine. [[Dr. István Józsa: Terror! Terror!]] The House will probably accept you. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: We pay! István Szilárd Németh: At least they let me speak!]] Dear Parliament, We'll continue. [[Noise in opposition benches. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Fellow Members! [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély to István Németh Szilárd, leaving his place: Do you not listen to the answer, Szilárd? Aren't you going to listen? The president's ringing again.]] For now, fellow Members, honourable Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2017-11-20-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There's one thing I'd like to tell you in advance. We give respect to all opposition representatives from time to time [[There's a lot of noise, clarity, applause from the opposition benches.]] who criticize the government in different ways [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: What respect?]] they criticize the government in different ways, and we would like to ask you to give respect to those voters, too. who have earned their trust in the faction here, the pro-government factions. [[István Szilárd Németh applauds.]] By the way, I'd also like to say that I'm sorry that Ron Werber's advice has so much to offer. This is the Parliament, not the LMP election, and what we have seen is extremely unworthy of a woman who considers herself a candidate for prime minister. [[Mátyás Firtl: That's right, that's the shame! Dr. Wind Bernadett: I'm gonna open a cordon someday! Bence Rétvári: Against the Hungarian voters, not with us! It's constant noise.]] That's all I wanted to say. But how do I respond, we have talked several times in Parliament about the start of the resettlement process? [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Enough with the lies! That's enough! Shame on you!]] programme implementation and began to legislate these plans... [[There's always a lot of noise.]]
u2017-11-20-32	Fellow Members!
u2017-11-20-33	... and there has been so much news since last week that a decision has been made in plenary on the plans that we are talking about. This is the official position of the European Parliament from now on. [[Németh Szilárd István: That's right!]] Let's see exactly what this is about. Mandatory allocation procedure without upper limit [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: He is not telling the truth!]] with regard to immigrants already in Europe, and clearly included in this regulation, which was adopted in the European Parliament, in order to direct these immigrants primarily to those Member States who have so far considered few. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Is the decree with the government?]] Immigrants have been accepted. It is also clear in the text that controls should be carried out not in the countries of entry, but in the countries of destination, so here, in our countries. In addition, family reunification would be facilitated and NGOs with a much critical, opaque background would be involved in the proceedings. We consider it extremely irresponsible that individual EU leaders do not want to defend Europe's borders, but to pass on the consequences of their own failed policies to those countries who have been calling attention to the dangers from the outset and saying no to resettlement quotas. It is scandalous that the opposition that has repeatedly denied these plans in recent years [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right! He's denying it now!]] That's what they're doing right now. [[Dr. László Kács: You go there!]] it has been denied here at home and voted for in Brussels. Madam Member, your representative, who you have delegated to Brussels, said that he could not think of a solution to the crisis other than the introduction of a compulsory quota system. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I hate Soros, but your style is just as much!]] That's your position. [[It's a lot of noise. Dr. Wind Bernadett: What did George Soros say?]] The entire opposition out there supports this. He was supported by the MSZP, look at the report. He's supported by the LMP. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: You're lying! You're lying from morning till night! Márton Gyöngyösi: Navracsics should be convinced of the Soros plan! It's a lot of noise.]] I mentioned the statement. Unfortunately, Jobbik has joined this line. And what's to come of it? A trialogue between the EU institutions will begin, typically with the total exclusion of the public. Only Member States can derail this scandalous plan [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Send me one of the plans, please.]] But it's gonna take enough citizen support. That is why it is important that as many people participate in the national consultation as possible. We would also like to thank all those who have already given their views and those who will do so. [[Dr. István Apáti: What about those who don't?]] We have recently learned that György Soros himself has made a statement; while the European Parliament is implementing part of his proposals, this is what last week's vote is about, he is attacking the Hungarian government. Its entry proves that the pressure in Hungary continues to increase, and those who do not like the immigration policy of our country, among other things, launch a frontal attack. After the activists, the billionaire is now personally involved in the fight. From this we can see that the real political battle begins only then. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] One thing I can say for sure to you, the opposition: we will not allow billionaires and bureaucrats who are not elected by anyone to make decisions that will determine our future for decades. The Hungarians are made of tougher things than this. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-20-34	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply, and ask my fellow Members to remember that they are in the Parliament building. We're in the courtroom! [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's why we don't lie from morning to night, Mr. Secretary of State. The intervention of György Szilágyi. Noise.]] Fellow Members, if... [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: This is the shame they do! Further interventions from the opposition benches.]] Be nice. Be kind, Congresswoman. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The truth hurts!]] Don't top it. He had a warning. You think he wants another one? [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Feel free to sign me in, I'll give you my checker. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Waits for Ron Werbert!]] You'll get it, you'll get it! You'll get it. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Bence Rétvári, KDNP applied for a speech after today's agenda [[Martin Gyöngyösi: We're gonna miss it!]] ; Tuzson Bence, Fidesz; Ágh Péter, Fidesz; Ander Balázs, Jobbik; Hoppál Péter, Fidesz; Bodó Sándor, Fidesz; Z. Carpathian Dániel, Jobbik; Farkas Gergely, Jobbik; Attila Tilki, Fidesz, representatives. Dear Parliament, Now, at 11:59 p.m., we will begin to discuss questions and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy:. When will Romania leave our country? It's an address. Mr Sándor Burány has the floor. [[12.00]]
u2017-11-20-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. At the beginning of November, the quarterly growth data of the Member States of the European Union arrived. There are two things that are clear. One is that Hungary grew slower than the Hungarian government expected, but Romania grew much faster than the Romanian government expected. Adapted with a calendar effect, this means that the Romanian data is 8.8 percent, which is a quite astonishing category. All of this, with our eastern neighbour achieving a much better result than Hungary, starting from a greater economic downturn after the crisis. According to investors, the scissors between the two countries will continue to close, and in the next decade, Romania will be leaving our country, just as the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Poland have done. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. As the populist speech in the Romanian Parliament is becoming less and less important that they will catch up with Hungary, the Hungarian Parliament should also know what to expect. Mr. Secretary. I would like a direct answer to the question of when you think Romania will outrun Hungary. I look forward to your reply.
u2017-11-20-36	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-20-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, Romania's third quarter GDP figure shows very good figures. However, growth trends are not assessed for a quarter. Therefore, if you allow us to compare the processes that have been taking place since 2013 in Hungary and Romania, we can see that the economic growth of the two countries is closer to each other, and that the result of Romania is not nearly as outstanding as you have assessed the last quarter here. Hungary continues to have a significant advantage in terms of its economic development compared to Romania. Moreover, several analysts are concerned about the sustainability of Romanian growth. For example, the Commission's autumn report, which assesses the background to growth and sees, at the same time, the lack of a Romanian budget is increasing, reaching 3 per cent, and is likely to exceed it. So the budgetary balance is being cut. Fiscal discipline in the country is falling, as the external balance situation has also deteriorated. The current account deficit is increasing. If we look further at unemployment figures, we can see that unemployment is increasing in Romania, even falling into a 20 - year depth. If we look at government debt figures, we see that the trend in Romania is opposite to that in Hungary: the level of government debt is increasing. Thus, economic growth is essentially financed by credit from external sources and therefore by higher consumption, which is why it is able to reduce taxes. But by the way, if we look at the economic policy of the Romanian Social Democratic Party and the economic policy conducted under your governance, we can see that there is a similarity. Ferenc Gyurcsány himself said that we financed the increase in wages and the reduction of taxes from credit. That's what's happening in Romania now. This model is not available for Hungary. We will continue the Hungarian model [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] continue to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-20-38	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask a question to the Minister without a wallet for national politics:. When will the Government begin preparations for the 100th anniversary of Trianon? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Minister Zoltán Balog, representing the Ministry of Human Resources, who is competent and competent on the subject, answers the question, Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-20-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In recent months, we have spoken on several occasions on Jobbik's part about the fact that the Hungarian Government should start preparations for the upcoming 100th anniversary of Trianon as soon as possible. However, the government seems to be unwilling to do so, and time is pressing. For example, Romania is preparing to celebrate the centenary of the great merger in 1918 in December next year. In 2016, they commemorated the 100th anniversary of their first invasion in Transylvania. Last year, the name of the Hungarian capital was returned to the triumphal arch in Bucharest. The Romanian airline Tarom has named its newest aircraft "Big Association." The Romanian Academy of Sciences published its centenary program in July, building monumental monuments in Bucharest, Arad and Gyulafehérvár. A parliamentary committee was formed in June and a special centenary department was established within the Ministry of Culture. Therefore, the Hungarian communities from abroad, especially the Hungarians of Transylvania, must be prepared to celebrate amazingly and to stimulate nationalism. It is no coincidence that at the last meeting of the Hungarian Permanent Conference several people urged the government, not only from Transylvania, to take action. My colleague Gergely Farkas and I presented a proposal in February to declare 2020 a Trianon Memorial Year and prepare for it. However, Fidesz swept this down, claiming that they would soon make some other own proposal, although János Lázár acknowledged that otherwise there were only party political reasons for this vote. However, nothing has happened since then, after six months. Therefore, my fellow Member and I have now again tabled our proposal for a commemorative year, hoping that he will receive their support this time. Of course, we are open to any amending proposals and welcome the accession of my fellow Members from other parties. I would therefore like to ask you two questions about the above, Mr Secretary of State. Are you in favour of declaring the government itself national as the Trianon Memorial Year 2020? How do you intend to prepare, or why are you not prepared so far? Why not start preparing at home and at international level for foreign propaganda and domestic celebration of neighbouring states, especially Romania's Trianon [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] By which, by the way, the foreign Hungarians may feel foreign, secondary in their homeland? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-20-40	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-11-20-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We've also heard cold and warm from Jobbik about Trianon. Sometimes they compete with Gyurcsány, for example, when their President of Szolnok writes about Transylvanian Hungarians on his own social side that the larger part can be bought with a residual glass pearl, and then the local leader of Jobbik came to his reasoning that they did not deserve dual citizenship, and finally I can't even read what dehonesting remarks he made to Hungarians across the border. [[Dr. István Apáti: We voted!]] So it also shows that for money and power, they can do a lot of things and do the opposite of a lot of things. [[Dr. István Apáti: Turn the page! Turn the page.]] For Fidesz-KDNP... [[Dr. István Apáti: I see it hurts the congressman.]] We've heard a lot about your yelling in the last few days, so I think it would be better to approach the question with a little more humility. [[István Szávay intervenes. Dr. István Apáti: I will decide that!]] You are proud to make your statements these last few days, Congressman. This was also an important confirmation. [[Dr. István Apáti intervenes.]] Double citizenship was one of the important and first steps for the Fidesz-KDNP government, and we voted on it here in Parliament. Some were here, some were in the cafeteria instead of giving an interview [[István Szávay: You're lying! You're lying again!]] When it was possible to decide on an important issue for Hungarians across the border, and I could also mention the Unlimited! programme, which is an important programme of national solidarity, nearly 200,000 Hungarian students have been able to visit a Hungarian community across the border. The series of commemorations for World War I began in Hungary in 2014. Overall, 681 applications were supported by the Memorial Committee, and this is beyond the HUF 150 million item that the Hungarian Academy of Sciences uses to prepare for Trianon and to establish its scientific foundation. We have been able to support cultural events, publishing books, film scenarios from this 681 competition, and not only from here on the border we are renovating all the monuments of the First World War, but we are also trying to make 83 monuments of the First World War beyond the border worthy, and in the coming years - or rather, in the coming months - to renovate to proclaim the memory of Hungarian heroes beyond the border. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. István Szávay: It has nothing to do with the two questions!]]
u2017-11-20-42	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy and R. Benedek Sallai, representatives of LMP, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor.
u2017-11-20-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, They've got, like, five or six months left to run this country. It is not too late to start doing something good, and language education is one of the things that requires very urgent actions throughout the country, since as a means of preventing emigration from Hungary, the government seems increasingly to see fit not to have language education in Hungary. This tragic state of affairs, isn't it, is very, very bad in international comparison, and it has been presented by all statistics. Public education bleeds from a thousand wounds. Nevertheless, it is one of the elements that public education does not give priority to language learning. According to last year's data, only half of the eighth graders in primary schools reached the level indicated in the curriculum. Therefore, after primary school, language learning should be practically restarted, and experts say that 1000-1200 lessons are impossible to reach at least the secondary language exam. [[12.10]] There should be a complete reform of the language education system, because although a Hungarian student does not receive less language lessons than his fellow Western European students, there is still a significant lack of language skills. At the beginning of 2017, the Ombudsman also indicated that, despite the terrible situation of language learning, the government required secondary language examinations to be included in higher education without any preparation and as a condition from 2020. However, this is virtually impossible, since they exclude families after secondary education from university, from colleges - i.e., sorry, now only from university - who are unable to obtain separate language lessons, who cannot afford supplementary language lessons. In addition, the government's introduction of a diplomatic rescue programme is a failure to help many people, and we still do not know what they want to achieve in this area after the end of the programme. Do you have any idea for the rest of your time to change this very negative situation in the area of language learning? Is there any direction you think is necessary? What action can we expect from the government in the rest of the time in order to improve this very bad international statistics? I expect your reply to this with respect. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-11-20-44	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-11-20-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The voters will decide whether this government has five to six months to live, or you can take responsibility for the government in the next term, but that you are only a representative for five to six months, clearly, you said so yourself, since you said that in this LMP there is no need to politicalize another term, not to mention the opposition. You issued a certificate from your own party when you said it was unnecessary to take another term in this party, because nothing can be created, fortunately Fidesz-KDNP has been able to make progress in many areas in recent years. As you said, the number of language lessons in school is not low in European comparison, and even one of the highest. Students attend 504 hours in primary school on average, and, overall, young people attend 924 language classes at the end of secondary school studies, i.e. nearly 1,000 language classes. At the same time, the government has also tried to put young people learning the language in a more favourable position, so from 2018 everyone under the age of 35 will receive the first language exam free of charge. The Hungarian government will accept this amount up to HUF 35,000, so that no one has a problem signing up for the language exam, and that it will be done. In order to give young people more opportunities to learn languages in addition to normal classes, we started our program, "Language learning" from HUF 3.3 billion, which aims to give free language education to school groups during their university years, so that they, who are the youngest, understand the language of young people best, can deal with them. As I said, the sum of this is HUF 3.3 billion. We hope that young people will benefit not only from the graduation programme but also from it, and that the new National Basic Learning Plan is also an important task to help young people learn languages more effectively. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-20-46	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister for National Development what rail developments are expected in Vas county? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-20-47	Dear Secretary of State, I recently dealt with an oral question about the road bridges of Vas county, it turned out that after the M86 had been completed, the government was working on, for example, the preparation of road development between Szombathely and Kőszeg. I would now like to ask you what kind of rail developments will be expected in the future in Vas County. On this subject, too, we have seen that we have been able to achieve significant results since the beginning of civil government, resulting in a shortening of the travel time between Szombathely-Budapest, but several stations have also been able to be beautiful in whole or in part. However, this does not mean that we can sit back. We still have a task, and this also encourages all stakeholders, including the Hungarian State, the Hungarian State Railways and the Győr-Sopron-Ebenfurti Railway Company, to take action to achieve them. The development of the railway always means facilitating and making people's transport opportunities more comfortable, including those who go to work and educational establishments, travelers to their relatives and tourists. Therefore, I respectfully ask what kind of rail developments will be expected in Vas County in the future, and which municipalities will be affected. I would be grateful to hear more about my constituency from Kőszeg to Celldömölk in Sárvár. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-20-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, answers the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-20-49	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It has been shown many times that the current government is rail-friendly, that the railway has never been a corporate but has always been an important social policy factor. In recent years, Vas county has been affected by a number of rail developments: we electrified the 54-kilometer Szombathely-Szentgotthárd railway line, the developments concerning the electrification of the Hegyeshalom-Porpác section were completed in 2015 and the electrified line in Szombathely-Zalasentiván was handed over in 2016. The GYSEV railway network was built last year by a central traffic management system, which allows the service provider to control the traffic of 35 stations from the Szombathely centre. Within the framework of the Integrated Transport Development Operational Programme, HUF 2.4 billion will be allocated to the railway reconstruction of the Szombathely-Kőszeg railway line and to the construction of traffic detour. The central budget provides additional HUF 1 billion in support of the development of community transport in the area of Kőszeg. GYSEV is in the process of obtaining 10 modern trains with 208 seats with HUF 21.7 billion in EU support, the first Flirt 3 train arrived in Szombathely. This year, GYSEV acquired 9 more electric locomotives - this is not the way to switch between Hungary and Austria - from the European Investment Bank's loan backed by a state guarantee. This year, GYSEV plans to build an ETCS-2 train control system on the Sopron-Szombathely-Szentgotthárd line from HUF 10 billion and to ask: By the end of 2020, we will build a modern rail communication system along all international railway lines, including Celldömölk-Sárvár-Szombathely, Hegyeshalom-Szombathely-Zalaszentitván sections. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-20-50	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. There is no HUF 50 million to support dying patients, where there is more than HUF 330 billion of TAO support for sports organisations? It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor.
u2017-11-20-51	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. He asked for 50 million HUF support from the Hungarian Hospice Foundation, Zoltán Balog, Minister of Human Resources, but since last week we have known that only 40 million HUF has been awarded to him. While the Minister finally instructed the State Secretary to grant state aid to the Hungarian Hospice Foundation, while Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs, State Secretary, said that there might be some problem with the management of the foundation, that they ran out of money. Secretary of State, you're always communicating that we're a strong and proud country. In a strong and proud country, Mr. Secretary of State, this cannot happen if the foundation for end-stage cancer patients is not awarded that 50 million forints. Secretary of State, you know, Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs's statement is a lot of trouble. You're petty, vindictive and petty, and you're inhuman. They asked for 50 million forints for cancer patients, and you awarded 40 million forints. It's petty, Mr. Secretary, you know? ! - the week the Catholic Maria Radio received an immediate grant of 102 million forints. You know, we're talking about the operation of a radio and terminally ill people. Mr. Secretary. Zoltán Balog once said that it is necessary to pray that health care is better. I'd like to tell you a secret: prayer will not improve the health care situation, Mr. Secretary. We pray day and night that you fail because you have destroyed health care, education, the economy, the social care system, and small-timers, Mr. Secretary of State, because even 50 million forints will be lost to 10 million forints. Secretary of State, what do you think? ! Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-11-20-52	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[12.20]]
u2017-11-20-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I think it is more worthwhile to talk about patients in such a very critical situation with greater respect or empathy than to say sentences like those you said, Congresswoman, in the last 20 to 30 seconds of your speech. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I wasn't talking about patients, I was talking about you.]] Fidesz-KDNP has tried to provide as much support as possible for treatments that actually take place in hospice homes. If you look at the amount in 2010, you can see that there was a HUF 3.5 billion budget for home hospice care and home care. 3.5 billion forints. Three years earlier, it was 4 billion forints, only socialist governments removed 500 million forints of funds. Fidesz-KDNP has not only returned 500 million forints to its home hospice supply and home care activities, which the socialists have taken away from these people, but it has obviously even increased from 3.5 billion forints to 5.6 billion forints. We hope that these surpluses can help the work of the workers there. In addition, we were able to provide a billion HUF plus in 2017, i.e. this year compared to last year, and if we look at how, for example, the basic funding fee for the home hospice supply changed from HUF 4056 to HUF 4440, so this was a noticeable increase. The multiplier of the hospice supply - one basic fee is paid by how many times - has increased from 1.7 to 1.9 and the child hospice has increased from 2.7 to 3. We have also tried to expand capacity, with 126 beds in the capacity of this area since 2010. This organization, and this foundation, as you said, has already received 25 million HUF in excess of normal funding in recent years, so in addition to the funding that each institution receives on a normative basis from which the others manage, it has received another HUF 25 million in support in recent years, and this year it will receive an additional HUF 40 million in excess of the normative funding. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-20-54	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior:. When does the Government decide to raise the wages of local government workers? It's an address. Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs has the floor.
u2017-11-20-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, It is well known that officials whose salaries could not be raised from their own resources have been unable to receive a real wage increase for more than nine years. The wages of these employees are typically limited to the guaranteed minimum wage, so they receive a uniform minimum allowance under the Government Decree, and the pay table under the Public Service Officers Act has virtually lost their meaning. This has become part of everyday life of the ongoing conflict situation due to underpaidness, wage tension, unmotivation, and burnout in municipal offices, as we are typically talking about workers from smaller settlements, where, by the way, social responsibility is increased not only because of the labour burden, but also because of the more incomplete public service system. It can be said that the public servants whose duties and skills are indispensable, important and irreplaceable are slowly brought to a beggar's pole. And indeed, these employees are literally irreplaceable, since, to some extent, it is no longer possible to find qualified professionals to do certain jobs, such as hearing about a situation where a four-man administration does the accounting of 15 settlements. Not only the lack of financial appreciation, but also the unnecessarily increasing administrative burden and constant inspections, which are almost up to harassment, are alarming. Dear Secretary of State, Please give a clear answer: when is the government finally willing to settle the wages of municipal civil servants, i.e. when will they increase their salaries according to the expectations of the sectoral trade union, with a total rate of 50%? I know that the government has already presented this, and now that Viktor Orbán has already signed the part of the social pillar concerning wage catching up, it is time to stop fooling the Hungarians. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-20-56	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-20-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you for the question, and I am pleased that you are committed to raising the wages of municipal workers. I hope that this commitment also exists in the mayors of your party, and you are taking advantage of the opportunities to raise the wages of local government workers. Of course, this is not the practice, because the statements show that the mayors and the municipalities that you run have not taken the steps that they could have taken. The government is committed to supporting the local government and improving the functioning of the municipalities. This is also shown by the fact that, while the municipal sector has closed the budget years year after year with a deficit, in recent years, the municipal sector has been closing the budgetary years with an ever-increasing plus since 2014. Local governments had a lot of opportunities to hijack the wages of local government workers and increase the wages of local government workers, and already the 2011 law allowed local government employees to divert their wages according to the workload, according to the quality of the work carried out, to varying degrees according to their qualifications, with various multipliers, up to 50 percent. The 2017 Finance Act also allowed the municipality to set the salary base to a different extent than HUF 38 650. Obviously, each local government or municipal body has its own decision as to how Members decide to increase the wages of workers by changing the wage base or other options. I note here that, for example, in order to reduce administrative tasks, a number of new programmes are being introduced, such as the ASP system, which you have been constantly attacking, which, by the way, is already supported by the small municipalities, where it was introduced, and they understand that this is also intended to reduce their administrative burden. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-20-58	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy and R. Benedek Sallai, representatives of the LMP, wish to ask the Minister of Human Resources: The environmental crisis of the century and its consequences? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-20-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, If you do not take this as disrespectful, I do not consider your answer to my previous question on language education sufficient, but I am very much counting on you to say something encouraging about environmental education. Although Hungary's prime minister treats environmental protection as a liberal fad and, apparently, education and education on environmental and nature protection has collapsed in Hungary, I respectfully ask whether there is at least something to be done in public education if everything else has fallen apart from education. In practice, Pope Ferenc has issued an encyclical about the care of our shared home, more than 15,000 leading scientists in the world have issued warnings that a very serious change of mind is required in order for mankind to remain on the planet, yet all related educational objects, materials and natural sciences to encourage a preventive approach have been taken back by the education cabinet, government in Hungary, and training on environmental education, environmental knowledge and natural sciences has ceased in both secondary schools and vocational training. The collapse of this area can cause or may cause very, very many other problems, as citizens willing to stand up for the environment are as few as the number of dedicated professionals in the public administration has collapsed. Basically, increasing the level of education in physics, chemistry and biology and ensuring the professional background in this area would be a task that should be important not only in the framework curricula but also in everyday education. Unfortunately, this is not the case in Hungary, and the decline in this regard, which can be measured again in an international comparison, is the sin and responsibility of the Orbán government. I respectfully ask whether this government intends to do something for the rest of its short time, as long as it steers, to make a positive change in the trends in this regard, or to continue with the low-flying we have experienced so far. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[István Ikotity applauds.]]
u2017-11-20-60	Thank you, Congressman. The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-20-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Our rating, as Members of Parliament, is carried out by voters, so all kinds of fritters can, of course, come from you, but regardless, voters will tell us who gets into Parliament and how they get into Parliament, who governs and who is in opposition. As regards the various green programmes in schools, honourable Member, we have managed to make a great deal of innovation in these recent times. [[12.30]] Obviously, this is an important part of the National Basic Training Plan, and it is also part of the framework curricula. We have launched a new initiative that goes beyond the school teaching framework for the third year, which is called the Sustainability Weeks. The very essence of these is to get students up from everyday school benches, not in those benches, in those chairs, but to get out, and to gain much deeper knowledge and experience of sustainability and environmental protection, to think about it, to touch them emotionally, and it is much easier not to get emotionally touched by textbooks, but during such a week. In this we have a number of thematic lesson plans, sample projects, which help to attract students with this kind of interest through new, innovative pedagogical methods. In addition, it is important to have a school of consumer awareness, which also deals with sustainability, a competition called the Sustainability Cup, with which more and more schools are joining, the green-school and eco-school programmes are becoming more and more extensive, which are also intended to deepen students' awareness, with 500 teachers at 38 sites, 385 teachers at kindergarten, 387 teachers and teachers, and 700 new institutions joined. Today there are 601 eco-schools and 372 eternal eco-schools in Hungary. We are specifically trying to support environmental education and study in forest schools with the. High School project. They also have 90 percent support opportunities. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So we are also trying to promote sustainable education in many, many other areas. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-20-62	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bene Ildikó, representative of Fidesz, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:. In addition to the IVF support? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-11-20-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, For Fidesz-KDNP, the child is the first, but we respect privacy decisions. However, we must also help couples who want to have children, but some health problem prevents them from having children. Today, about 20 percent of couples of childbearing age in Hungary struggle with infertility. In our view, the flask program can be a huge help for childless couples, as it can give them the opportunity to have children, even if they have fertility problems. State support for the five cycles in Hungary is outstanding internationally. A recent government decision has been taken to support the establishment of a new gynaecological and andrological department in Bethesda Children's Hospital and the Buda Irritable Hospital, where couples with fertility problems can have children in a family environment. I would also like to mention that families can also benefit from the benefit of housing, the CSOK grant for couples participating in fertility treatments if they have a child on the basis of the treatment. If parents participate in a flask program and fail, they will only have to repay the amount of aid and the State will not charge interest here. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State what further assistance can be expected in the future in childbearing for those who have fertility problems. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-20-64	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-20-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, We are trying to help barren couples in Hungary from three directions, because this is a very big problem, as Mrs. Congresswoman said. On the one hand, we increase the number of so-called cycles where interventions are financed by the State, on the other hand we increase the state support for the medicines used, and on the third we increase the capacity, i.e. more interventions can be carried out at several locations. We can remember when, back in 2007, the socialist government with Ágnes Horváth was at the forefront, that if two interventions were successful in Europe, then in Hungary we need not only five, but two interventions, which are financed by the state. On the other hand, we not only fund five interventions, but we support five for the first child, four for the second child, and four for the third child, so we support another 4-4 cycles for each child. We measure the support for the children and the children we've taken. In addition, we have increased support for medicines. In public-funded care, there is an increase from 70 to 90 percent in the support of the medicines used, but also from 25 to 55 percent in the non-public-funded care, so this is an advantage for all couples. In addition, we will increase the number of opportunities for couples to ask for such intervention in clinics and universities. The government resolution was issued from five billion forints. The government has provided five billion forints to provide as much capacity as possible, so it can be in locations where it hasn't been or where it has been, and there they can provide a lot more parties and provide this kind of treatment to many more mothers and future mothers. Thus, we trust that at more sites, more capacity, less cost and higher public pharmaceutical subsidies [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] the state can support much more cycles than before, helping barren couples. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-20-66	Thank you very much. My bell wasn't to the Secretary of State, it was to my fellow Members. Let's honor each other by listening. Dear Parliament, Imre Horváth, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice:. Are you willing to finally offer real help to families trapped in a debt trap? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-20-67	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Not only have you failed them, but you have also pushed the foreign exchange-credit families into a ditch. The 180 HUF end-payment only helped the wealthier, the exchange rate barrier gave only a breath of time. On the other hand, the conscious weakening of the forint and the forinting were the final blow to the many foreign exchange creditors. There would also be a rule of law and an economically rational solution, which we proposed at the time. In 2010, we tabled a complete bill for the private bankrupt institution, which you have not yet discussed. Instead, KDNP's bill was adopted, which promises years of misery to those in a debt trap instead of a sure escape route. In view of this, it is hardly surprising that only 980 out of tens of thousands of debtors initiated private bankruptcy proceedings until mid-August, but even a fraction of these few initiatives have reached the start of the debt settlement process. In the case of mortgage loans secured by real estate, the provision of the so-called right to walk away could be a solution, i.e. the possibility for the debtor to be exempted from further debt after the sale of the property. Even the President of the Executive Board considers this to be eligible. The question is whether the government is finally willing to give real help to families trapped in debt, to establish a truly functioning private bankruptcy law and to give them the right to walk away. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-11-20-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Pál Völner will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-20-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I'm always a little surprised when the government gets any questions about the foreign exchange crisis from socialist benches. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP. Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: Answer the question!]] because the crisis situation began in 2008, and you reacted coldly to it for a year and a half, and you did not accept the bill submitted by yourself under the Bajnai government, because it was considered inadequate to deal with the crisis. Then ask questions, as State Secretary Csaba Dömötör once said [[Zoltán Grimlock: We're not putting it up, we're putting it up to a million citizens, one million!]] It's like an arsonist holding firefighters accountable for the form in which the fire is being extinguished. You put hundreds of thousands of families in this currency loan trap when it was terminated. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Lajos Kósa! Peter Szijjártó!]] the housing support system introduced by the first Orbán government. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: When did the euro go below 300 HUF? Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] and did not support the measures of the current government to assist foreign exchange taxpayers, did not vote to ban mortgage-based foreign exchange loans, to limit interest rate increases [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: When was the last time you were under 300?]] Not even the price barrier or the end-payment. The Forinting Act was not supported either, even though it could have been proposed by the central bank president appointed by you in 2008, and could have been helped by the central bank at the time. They're basically asking all the questions you could have solved yourself. We worked it out. You didn't support it. And they don't follow what's going on in Parliament right now, because in the spring, we accepted that only 100 percent of the value of real estate can be auctioned. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Be happy as long as they don't do it at your house.]] [[12.40]] In the meantime, the parties can agree, and if they agree, it also means the right to walk away. The President of the Executive Faculty did not mention for a reason that he exists and that such a thing could actually work. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Sell a house! Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] So it can be established that you are doing nothing for the Hungarian families and are basically pursuing a political campaign against the government. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: The one million people in trouble, right?]] which has done everything. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-20-70	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Egyed, a representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why does the Government not support those who save lives? It's an address. It is for Congressman Zsolt Egyed.
u2017-11-20-71	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I look forward to the day when the 21st EDF will be implemented, along with several animal protection organisations and civilians. animal protection in Hungary. We are still in the usual process of sweeping the opposition's positive proposals off the table. The support of civil society organisations, which do not receive any funding at the moment, is a very important issue. There are many civil society organisations in the country that, either alone or in cooperation with various public organisations, perform tasks that cannot be solved without their involvement. Most of the time, these organizations rescue animals from their own resources 24 hours a day. The question of why they do not receive adequate support is justified. In addition to many settlements, there are so-called lawn-master settlements, which are practically nothing but the destruction of the introduced livestock by municipal or state funding with a noble simplicity. These institutions, if not much, will receive some money. Another very important issue relating to animal protection is the issue of special rescue teams. They are practically in the same situation as civil animal welfare organisations, operating from their own resources, practically not very or almost never receiving state aid. Special rescue teams develop, build and operate their own systems from 1 percent of the tax. I would like to ask the honourable Secretary of State: can we assume that the discussion of substantive proposals is taking place in the background, but we do not know about it? Perhaps in the near future, do you still see a chance to remedy this problem during your governance until April, or will this be one of the tasks to be solved by Jobbik? I would expect a direct reply from the Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-20-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-20-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In recent years, various applications received a total of HUF 3 billion for nature and animal protection organisations. This is clearly divided in different proportions among the different types of organisations, 12 applications were successful and successful in specialized rescuers, and 106 animal protection organisations received a grant of HUF 65 648 270 only this year. Some of these grants are obviously smaller, some are bigger, some have received a hundred thousand HUF grant, but some have received HUF 1.7 million in support. In addition to this, what legislative tightenings, what approach-forming work has been carried out, how the number of stray animals has decreased, you received a detailed briefing from Secretary General Zsigo here in Parliament on 3 October, I would not repeat that. What is important, however, is that we can use 30 million forints to upgrade animal shelters. This can be drawn from a new chapter-based appropriation called support for animal protection. The budget for this will increase by 33 percent next year, and it will be 53.2 million forints. So here we can report a steady increase. Thanks to the introduction of the tweezers system, the number of stray dogs has decreased from 30,000 to 20,000 in five years. And I think it's even more positive that the percentage of animals brought to new farmers from the pedestals has risen from 55 percent to 80 percent. So the work that you do in a coordinated manner, I think, is quite remarkable, very worthy of your recognition, I would say, and state aid is also increasing. And we would expect Jobbik to consider, as closely as he is concerned with the animal protection issue, the 20th century. At least so much attention should be paid to people who have experienced great suffering in the life of the century. [[Grumble in the benches of Jobbik. What's that got to do with anything?]] Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-20-74	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy and Ikotity István, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Still do they not realize that they are stuck in the past and are putting education at a dead end? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2017-11-20-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Under Rózsa Hoffmann, the worst national master plan for Hungarian public education was completed. There's nothing more to prove than that the government itself is backing out from behind him. See, 1995, 2003, 2007, 2012, these were the years when a basic curriculum was made, each government almost created one for itself. The fact that the Orbán government is already making the second one under its government also shows that you are out of your own basic curriculum and are working on a new one. Unfortunately, this new one, however, is made behind closed doors, and a wide range of professional and social consultation is excluded from this, which suggests another failure. The current Hoffmann basic curriculum is untimely and stressful for everyone; literally, it is enough just to look at the bags, measuring the weight of the children in the lower school every day. In a rapidly changing world, the school should learn to teach, provide the knowledge necessary for self-direction, problem-solving cooperation, not just and exclusively the curriculum, as is stated in the current basic curriculum prepared by you. The number of hours required is enormous, this should be reduced, students and educators should be freed up, teachers shouldn't tie their hands so tight. Secretary of State, it takes at least a decade to introduce a basic curriculum, and you are now trying to push through the second one, and the failure of this can be covered. But I ask the question: shouldn't there be a more general idea of a basic curriculum that is not only in line with the conviction of a political side, but also of the fact that education is a matter that affects the fate of the nation in the longer term, perhaps a consensus or at least compromises in this area? To this end, I have tabled a proposal for a decision in this area, and I ask for your support. And I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-11-20-76	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-20-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You are well-informed in the field of education policy, so I think you've only listened to the fact that the Public Education Act itself requires you to review the National Basics every five years, precisely because the world is changing rapidly, one revision should be carried out every five years, and what needs to be further developed from the NAT. So it's perfectly natural that every five years in the coming years, every government will recreate and take out the law. You know that, but you didn't mention it here for some reason. Freedom of schools in relation to framework curricula. As you know, honourable Member, a year and a half ago, we increased the percentage in which individual schools can deviate from the framework curriculum from 10 per cent to 20 per cent. So if the school director, teachers, parents and students jointly decide that they are a race-stand type school, then they will obviously take several hours and learn more from the master plan. If they say they're supporting a looser educational model, they have a 20-percent margin. So it's the schools themselves that can live with. Each school can develop its own profile that it wants to do a more stringent or looser education. The government spends resources on digital education to the extent that there has never been an example: to get the Wi-Fi to all classrooms, to access broadband internet; to distribute 70,000 different IT tools already in the past, and to distribute ten thousand more to schools in the following, precisely to have the right tools for all of this. In addition, digital content is available free of charge to everyone on the Smart Portal, which is not the PDF format of old books, and should be looked at in the same way, but are created according to a new digital education principle to show young people a more sedentary content. Well, they're all trying to serve a modern Hungarian education issue. The experimental textbooks were also developed with a modern tool, as not only three to four or five textbook developers were involved in it, but also hundreds of teachers and thousands of students who indicated what the textbook's strengths were and which parts should be further improved. This was also one of the most modern textbook development tools in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[12.50]]
u2017-11-20-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:, Do you think they will now receive better care 2? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-11-20-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Just two weeks ago, I asked Mr. Secretary of State about the health care of people living in Tamási and Cellarhely, whose continuing deterioration is confirmed by the locals. At that time, Secretary of State said that he would continue to operate in Cellar and provide patients with surgery, obstetrics and internal medicine. Blood can be taken here, so you don't have to go anywhere. However, all these are maintained despite the fact that most of these are far below country averages, the number of people taking part in these benefits. In the Tamás clinic, patients can use health insurance-funded benefits in 21 professions. The people there don't feel that way, Mr. Secretary. They're starting to feel that the reason that health care is probably not working well around here is because you don't even know what you're talking about. Because the reality, compared to what the Secretary of State said, is that in Tamási due to the increased supply area for 21 specializations, the reservation is for three to four months, only possible. For example, rheumatological orders are only once a week, and patients will have to wait three months for orthopaedic surgery, and five months for cardiology. The doctor comes from Pécs, so between 16 and 18 o'clock in Tamási, which is a district center, there is no health care, there is no doctor to take care of people. There is no obstetrics at the basement, despite the fact that the secretary of state has claimed it, and because of the lack of a doctor, it is often posted on the door at the beginning of the day of ordering that there is no order today. So, of course, patient traffic remains below the national average, as patients are unable to show up for treatment. This area also needs normal, accessible health care and active beds. What are you going to do? Don't talk nonsense, don't say political nonsense, but tell people what they want to do in this area.
u2017-11-20-80	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-20-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I've already given you detailed information on previous developments in the area, and I wouldn't repeat that. At the same time, I think it is important to say that health care is provided both in the cellar and in the area of outpatient and inpatient care. The basic professions can be used locally in Cellar, and the other professions can be used in Tamási, the Tamás office. If we look at the patient traffic data at the basement, we are indeed experiencing what you said, Congresswoman, that these are low patient traffic data. In general surgery, in May 2017, this month, there was one case for three hours, so on average, one patient arrived every three hours. He mentioned the capacity of Tamási rheumatology. If we compare this with the capacity of the hospital in Múzóvár, what we see is that if we break down the case numbers to class, Tamási didn't have half the number of cases per hour compared to the hospital in Múzóvár. If we look at internal medicine, honourable Member, in Cellar, we see that there is a higher number of cases than the national average, which is why in the settlement of 2,200 people there is an independent internal medicine, because this is the reason why the specialization is taking place, because so many of the 2,200 people leave because there is a national average, so this is what was maintained there. Obstetrics and gynecology, honourable Member, operates both in Cellar and Tamási. In Cellar, in May this year - I can say this again - there was one case per two orders per hour, so patients entered every two hours on average. We try to adapt the different benefits to the needs everywhere, and you know that the departments of the professional college have a recommendation on what is the minimum level, with which each treatment is sustainable, because otherwise the quality of the care will not be sufficiently guaranteed. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-20-82	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Editor Sebestyén, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: "Do you think they will make every effort to enforce the rights of the children? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-11-20-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Today is the World Children's Rights Day. At times like this, you automatically think about whether children's rights apply to us. The most important requirement is that the child has the right to healthy physical, mental, emotional and moral development. How much can we ensure this for the growing generations in Hungary today? In the area of child protection, a number of legislative changes have been made recently, but they do not guarantee the perfect functioning of the system in themselves. In order to protect children's rights, it is inevitable that the child protection signalling system works as effectively as possible. The news of the past period has shown many times that, unfortunately, the system's shortcomings or lack of signal have resulted in tragically late cases of child endangerment or abuse. As long as the legislative environment is not accompanied by a system that seriously penalises Members' failure to signal, we cannot expect a miracle. It is professionally understandable and logical that the coordination of the system and other measures to ensure the rights of the child, whether family care or school social work, should be carried out by child welfare centres, but as long as the reputation of the profession is at the current level, and the workers in this sector have to take on the risk of poverty, the serious shortage of professionals puts not only in jeopardy the extra tasks, but also the basic tasks of the time. And I didn't even mention then that the government's propaganda machine might not be about people fooling around, but, for example, on this subject, about informing the general public on a broad scale. Dear Secretary of State, In view of the above, do you not think that, in addition to bureaucratic measures, substantial steps should be taken to strengthen the system or to protect children's rights? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-20-84	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-20-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The fact that you consider the issue of immigration and quotas to be a simple prank, if you look at the European Parliament's decision last week, where they want to punish Hungary and force it out of our hands, the possibility of those living here in Hungary, they want us to make a decision about it not here, but in Brussels, if you fail to do so, and you say that there is no point in dealing with it, is a clear indication of the new direction of Jobbik's new Simicska, which does not consider this issue to be important. Therefore, no amendment to the basic law was voted. However, you have mentioned another important issue, honourable Member, the rights of children and the wage situation of those who deal with them. The good news is that in social care, although the wages paid in 2010 were very low, we have been able to decide on a 62 percent wage increase in recent years. We hope that this will partially restore the honour of this career, but we know that there will still be a further task for the other governments here. But finally, there is a government that doesn't take a month's wages from those working in the social sphere, but that can account for a 62 percent increase. We have various kinds of assistance for the enforcement of children's rights, both with regard to the state signalling system and with regard to the individual programmes. Three thousand children and their attendants participated in the so-called "Come into the picture" children's rights roadshow, occupations, football championships in children's homes, foster parents, so in a total of 25 years, 10,000 children were called, and, as I say, three thousand children and their attendants participated. There was a fairy tale entitled "Lost Birding," which tells children's rights and obligations through ten stories. We have also launched a national child protection and child rights programme at 19 county stations with the right to speak, with 2500 participants. Four or four free copies of the fabulous volume on children's rights have reached 4500 kindergartens so that they can process them. We have launched a drawing contest on this subject, for which 1144 works have been submitted. So I think we have sought to strengthen the protection of children's rights both in campaigns and in the public system. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-20-86	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy and Ikotity István, representatives of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: It's an address. By answering this question, Prime Minister Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary will answer the question. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-20-87	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Vocational training has come to a dead end, the government has not dealt with the problems that existed before, but has served the entire sector to multinationals and oligarchs. Orbán considers vocational training to be the task of meeting the immediate needs of some economic operators. The VET amendment before Parliament does not improve vocational training. Technically, changes to part-training will go further by debauching training. They'd be even easier to let young people off the school bench than they were at the crash course. [[13.00]] They want to meet the immediate needs of the labour market. The knowledge-based society and long-term interests, whether individual or economic, would require something completely different. Young people should be given the skills and skills of the 21st century. They are prepared for the challenges of the century. That, as in Western Europe, for example, a skilled worker has changed profession and jobs on average six times in his life, as required by rapid economic changes. It is necessary to enable young people, professionals, to stand in their place in a team and on their own, not only to know certain stages of assembly, to learn, not only to work alongside the tape, and to operate the machines, but also to use computers, design, organize, communicate, speak foreign languages, to stand their place in other workflows, as well as in other areas of life. This is not going to work, because public knowledge has been removed from vocational training. They were excluded from the universal Hungarian culture and from widespread culture. Vocational training must not be a dead end, we must not give less chance to obtain a degree or further education. Vocational training should also be a platform for universities and colleges. Today, the total opposite of everything is happening. When does the government realize that they've taken vocational training to a dead end? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-11-20-88	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary, answers the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-20-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Unfortunately, I must start by saying that, with their question, Mr Hadházy and Mr Hadházy, they have given their complete indiscretion of both the system of vocational training and the amendment of the law on vocational training and adult training before Parliament. The question you are asking points out that the Member and his partner have confused adult education and vocational training in schools. It would have been nice to have you here on Wednesday, and your benches are not empty, and you would have listened to what has been said here. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] To continue with the idea, the provisions relating to the shorter cycles of State-supported training that are planned to be introduced concern only the system of adult education. So what you said in connection with part-training and accelerated training is specifically related to adult education. Moreover, these provisions also strengthen the flexibility of the Member's system and the possibility of multiple job shifts by facilitating the wider implementation of these, typically internal company trainings. In vocational high schools, vocational secondary schools, the training continues as it has been so far, by providing the possibility of a thorough acquisition of public knowledge. I would like to stress that the government has been paying particular attention to vocational training for many years and has done a significant and seemingly effective work in the development of the vocational training system in recent years. I would now like to highlight two elements of this which clearly show that the Member was wrong about the direction of development. One is the introduction of the second vocational training free of charge and the other is the strengthening of adult education in the school system, with the help of which tens of thousands can acquire a new profession and a second profession free of charge. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And how well the vocational training system adapts to the needs proves that hundreds of productive investments from abroad show that Hungarian professionals can compete internationally. [[The president's ringing again.]] Even technological and industrial giant companies rely on Hungarian professionals and Hungarian vocational training. I'd like to...
u2017-11-20-90	Thank you very much.
u2017-11-20-91	...to say that if you had listened, I would have been talking about companies from abroad to Hungary, Congressman. Excuse me, Mr. President. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-20-92	I forgive you, Mr. Secretary, but I'm bound by house rules. I salute my fellow Members. István Tukacs, a representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. How long will we pay the pension of Ukrainian pensioners? It's an address. Mr István Tukacs has the floor.
u2017-11-20-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to talk about one of the most important problems in the Hungarian-Ukrainian border area: the Hungarian pension paid to Ukrainian citizens. This is due to those who are Ukrainian citizens who are living in Hungary and who have a permanent address declared. The problem, however, is this. They do not reside in Hungary, and they have a fictitious registered address in most of them. Because it's unviable that 30, 50 or even 100 people are registered in an average family home. Dear Secretary of State, In order to understand the size of the problem, it seems that in a medium-sized town or village on these days, when there is a pension, unknown faces appear, and the mayor is just deluded about who he sees on the street. What is happening is that this Hungarian pension will be taken. And it's even more bizarre, because they have to pay the Hungarian pension, which is the Hungarian pension average according to their profession. As a result, surprisingly many nuclear scientists, uranium miners, and more modest school principals come over for this Hungarian pension, and there were relatively few who were boiler heaters, courtiers or auxiliary workers. Mr. Secretary. In the county with the lowest average old-age pension, this is irritating. It is irritating because Hungarian pensioners have fulfilled their obligations and paid pension contributions. However, those Ukrainian pensioners are not. In fact, they don't even follow the rules. I therefore understand that it is difficult for a Russian-friendly government to negotiate diplomatic matters with the Ukrainian government, but I can very, very much understand this, but I find it unacceptable that neither the conditions of control nor the conditions for sanctioning have so far been created. Do you want to do something, Mr. Secretary? Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-11-20-94	Thank you, Congressman Tukacs. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-11-20-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Let us be clear, honourable Member, that this is a when-to-day agreement. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You made it.]] It was adopted in 1962, published by Decree-Law No 16 of 1963. And what you said about the Ukrainian government being difficult because of Russian friendship... I don't understand, so logically, it doesn't stop what you said. Some words had to be said, and you put them one after the other, but it didn't make any sense. [[István Tukacs: Worth a reply! The president's ringing the bell.]] What you said was that border traffic would be strengthened: once again, I will tell you that this has not been confirmed by border traffic workers. This is an important question, like all questions, and we have obviously looked into it. The Hungarian Government's intention to renegotiate this agreement is clearly difficult only in the context of the constantly changing political conditions in Ukraine. This also requires a partnership of the Ukrainian side to change this with a common will unit. However, we have started the checks in order to determine whether the legal conditions for residence in Hungary exist, both for applicants and for those already receiving such pensions. There were 121 checks in the county of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg between January 16 and February 17 and 38 checks in the county of Hajdú-Bihar, 36 checks in the county of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén. In this context, 17 cases were found not to exist, so these benefits were withdrawn. We have introduced an increased control of the applicants submitted. 61 applicants have been found not to be living in Hungary, and therefore this type of pension has not been established for them, honourable Member. So those who comply with the law can continue to count on being a party to this convention, but those who do not comply with the legal conditions will be deprived of this pension by the government. That's how we can distinguish law enforcement and non-compliance, protect law enforcement, and take action against the others. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-20-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. Will the abduction and destruction of Lake Balaton continue? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Kepli has the floor.
u2017-11-20-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, A plan for another gigantic investment is fermenting the mood of people on the shore of Lake Balaton who are already becoming more and more competitive. Megalomania seems to know no boundaries, because this time one of the most beautiful and most coherent beaches on the southern coast, suitable for both bathing and sport, the Golden Coast of Siófok, would be destroyed by a concrete instrument extending 225 metres into the lake, which would cover two hectares of water surface. The investment in Natura 2000 is a billionaire in Debrecen and Divinus Yacht Club Kft. He's got a name for it. But here comes the surprising turn of events, if anyone is still surprised: the investment would be made next to a campsite that was reportedly recently invested in Lőrinc Mészáros. From now on, of course, there is no question that licensing, as a knife in butter, moves forward, mudification, mortality, destruction of reeds - nothing matters if the Hungarian sea is slaughtered for the sake of Viktor Orbán's stooge. [[13.10]] Water, fish and spawning grounds, waves from surfers, panoramas and clean water are abducted from the beach owners, since water quality will only be sustainable by dredging, or it may not be. The question is, how does the Hungarian government, the wallet responsible for protecting the environment, act to protect the Natura 2000 site and the wildlife against the destruction of nature. Are you planning to take action against the existence of such a gigantic artifact on the coast originally included in the relevant regulation as a boat port, which is brutally interfering with the ecosystem of the lake, as we have seen in the case of Balatonfenyves, and ruining one of the most popular beaches in Lake Balaton; or are you standing behind Viktor Orbán's statement that environmental protection is just a left-wing idea, a madness that is not worth sacrificing and is not doing anything on that basis? I look forward to your substantive reply, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-20-98	Thank you, Congressman Kepli. I give the floor to Secretary Zsolt V. Németh.
u2017-11-20-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Fellow Members! It's a little color in the front. You held a press conference a few years ago called the Simicskas taking up the Lake Balaton. Well, since then, it has turned out that if the gentleman hasn't captured the shore of Lake Balaton, he has certainly bought you. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: This is embarrassing!]] But this time, let's believe you're really worried about Lake Balaton. Then it must be noted that we are talking about an ongoing environmental licensing authority case, that the authority's powers cannot be distracted by the government or the Ministry. According to our information, the procedure was closed twice in the first instance by a negative decision. We all intend to maintain the Balaton as a national value in the long term. This is enforced by the strict regulatory system of the Law on Lake Balaton. The Ministerial Decree on the adoption of the Waterfront Rehabilitation Study Plan of Siófok also defines the portable coastline in the area concerned and the detachment of public areas to be kept, where a trail suitable for the development of the coastal promenade is also marked. With regard to the conservation concerns raised on this issue, we do not have information on the destruction of reeds or fish on the basis of the existing reed qualification and local information. In the course of the procedure, however, the competent environmental authority also examines the risk of these risks under the legislation, together with their impact on the Natura 2000 site as well as on the Natura 2000 site. Please accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-20-100	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources: How long do teachers' wages significantly miss the average wage? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2017-11-20-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, We would like to keep track of the wage situation of the people working in education in the government, and I would ask you to give me a straight and honest answer to my questions. How is it possible that depending on the degree of a teacher starting today, i.e. that he has a college or university degree, he will bring home a net of 117 or 130 thousand forints in the given month? What kind of career model is this, where the entry step is not enough to pay someone's rent, let's say? A few weeks ago, and now months ago, I presented my own payroll to Mr. Secretary of State, on which in 2002, when I started teaching in high school as a university teacher, it was HUF 88,000 net on this payroll. At today's value, since then we can expect 77.5 percent inflation, it would amount to 156 thousand forints. Right now, you're going to get 130 grand for a junior college student in high school. I do not wish to praise the Medgyessy government, but, Mr Secretary of State, what you are saying is factually not true, because at the moment, a novice teacher earns less than he did then. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Secretary of State misled the audience when he said that "May Other" would eliminate the proportionate tax system. I would like to remind you that if that tax system, the multi-key tax system, were to work as proposed by May Other Politics, it would not only bring home the average wage, but the double average wage earner would also bring home 30,000 forints more. In fact, up to HUF 400,000 in net earnings, people would be better off, people with higher salaries would get worse. Please, Mr. Secretary, don't mislead the public. I would like to ask you how education will be above average, which will help us to catch up with Europe if you underpaid teachers. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy applauds.]]
u2017-11-20-102	Thank you, Congressman Ikotity. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-11-20-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Your tax bill is clear, published a few weeks ago, it is clear that a high school teacher who earns 313,000 forints on average today pays 46,798 forints in the current personal income tax system, and in your tax system it would not pay 46,000 forints, but 75,000 forints, so every high school teacher in Hungary would be less than 30 thousand forints if we introduced the progressive tax system of LMP. After all, you would tax your income with rising rates above the minimum wage and would withdraw 30 thousand forints on average from the pockets of every Hungarian high school teacher. If we look at the starting college salary, honourable Member, which you referred to, it was 122 thousand forints in 2010. This 122 thousand forints is now 182 700 forints. If we look at the college-educated wages, then that means that whoever had a university degree in 2010 made 129 500 forints, now he earns 203 thousand forints, honourable Member. It also pays less taxes and even benefits from a family-type tax reduction. These salaries have increased to such a great extent because the government - everyone knows this and knows it - has launched a comprehensive wage increase and has provided a surplus of HUF 500 billion in the education system. On the other hand, if we look not only at the starting salaries, honourable Member, but also at the one who earned 149 thousand forints before 2013 with college education in grade I, 19 years working, he received 149 thousand forints, now he earns 274 thousand forints from September this year. If someone worked with a university degree for 19 years, he earned 172 900 forints before 2013 and now earns 304 500 forints. That is what we have done, honourable Member. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] In order to catch up and increase teachers' wages, this is the rate of growth on teachers' wages in recent years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-20-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Kiss, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. When will the Northern section of the M0 ring be ready? It's an address. Mr László Kiss has the floor.
u2017-11-20-105	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, For a very long time, in the last few weeks, I thought that the chess that the affected municipalities are doing to each other would finally be over, and that the construction of the northern section of the M0 ring would be approximately within arm's reach. Annex III is amended in accordance with Annex III to this Regulation. As a parliamentary representative of the district, I was very pleased that public procurement had finally been issued for this final stage. The project has been going on for a very long time, if you like, and is a common point and a common shame of all previous governments across parties and governments. It is a pity because its implementation would help a great deal in the case of the III. it would be very useful for both the people living in the district and for the country to finally avoid Budapest, who is not even in there. It would be good if a northern city gate could be created for the bypass section, which could operate with service units and new, modern parking lots, if necessary, as a transfer point. Compared to that, if you like, the III bomb exploded. in the district it is that with the municipality of Solymár the National Infrastructure Developer Zrt. could not reach an agreement, so the notary of the municipality itself gave a non-professional resolution on the ongoing building permit, thereby preventing the recovery of the northern section of the M0 or at least preventing it to some extent. [[13.20]] So I ask the Secretary of State: what is the real beginning of the completion or start of the final stage of the ring, and when will the bypass be built if everything is supposed to proceed as planned? Is it planned to develop the HÉV station in Békásmegyer in addition to the M0 ring [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and create some kind of transport hub? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-11-20-106	Thank you, Congressman László Kiss. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2017-11-20-107	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, M0 is really important. Environmental permits and permit plans are available for the northern sector of the M0 road. The project is currently being authorised for construction. NIF Zrt. has filed an appeal against the previous rejection decision mentioned by you; this Hungarian legal order, there is a first instance, second degree, negotiations are being held with the municipality of Solymár. In addition, at its last meeting, the representative body in Solymár reviewed its previous position and reduced its development needs in relation to its M0 investment. The NIF will be ordered in accordance with the technical content, so hopefully the barrier will be removed and the building permit will be issued. The planning and preparation tasks of the western road sector were subject to a public procurement procedure and the deadline for the submission of tenders was 16 November 2017. The feasibility and environmental impact assessment and the final environmental permit for the western sector are expected by the first half of 2020. Besides the HÉV station in Békásmegyer, the parking lot is being upgraded, extended, this is what you asked, next to Route 11, a new parking lot with 167 seats is expected, and the deadline for the start of the investment will be decided soon. Honourable Congressman, I didn't bring it up, you brought it up about Solymár and the negotiations at all: yes, we don't want to create a situation like that created by the governments before 2010 when they built a blackmail condition for the construction of the northern bridge that cost the current government billions to settle after 2010. We don't want to create a situation like this. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Therefore, we are negotiating and keeping the order set out in the relevant procedures everywhere. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-20-108	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior: "When will the residents of Jánoshalm get their money back? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor.
u2017-11-20-109	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In the Parliament, we have already talked about sewer network constructions from EU support. The operation of the water utility companies involved in the operation is unethical according to the more cautious accusations, and the more harsh ones say it is illegal. Since Jánoshalma belongs to my constituency, I would therefore like to show on the example of the settlement what problems there are in this case. In Jánoshalmán the population was also involved in covering the cost of construction, as the Union did not fully cover it. In the meantime, the government supported the early completion of the investments with additional support, thus only a fraction of the originally calculated public contributions were needed, since it was only 180 million for the residents instead of 550 million forints. As a result, instead of the 260 thousand HUF installed, only a fraction of the really justified contribution per property. The investment is over. The performing water utility company is being wound up, but settlement with the inhabitants is still waiting. Even though they have repeatedly asked for a public, transparent settlement, this has not yet been achieved. In addition to HUF 260 thousand, several were forced to pay the costs of implementation, as this amount could be collected as a tax. Therefore, it was not a problem for the residents to be accountable for their payment obligations, but it is not that simple on the way back. Since the water utility company is not obliged to settle as soon as possible, the residents of Jánoshalm cannot know how long they can wait for their money if they ever get the difference between the amount paid and the amount used. My constituency is not a rich area, most of the people unfortunately live from month to month. They do not lack the amount of their accumulated reserves, but they would go to their daily food, medicine, or fuel. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Secretary of State why the accounts have not yet been drawn up, while the investment has long been completed. To whom can those affected turn to get their otherwise legitimate return money back as soon as possible? I'm looking forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-20-110	Thank you, Congressman Gergely Farkas. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2017-11-20-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The real big boom in the construction of utilities was the change of regime in Hungary, and one of the forms of this was the so-called residential self-strength public utility investment. The capacity to involve water utility companies to carry out these investments has been created and developed to create the form of self-strengthening public utility investment by the general public. The water utility companies, the inhabitants of the settlement, form the water utility company, establish their own statutes, and elect the leader of the water utility company himself. In general, as in this case, the water utility company carries out the investment on the basis of an agreement with the municipality. In the beginning, with 40 percent of state aid, 60 percent of these investments were carried out with public self-esteem. As the state grew, as the economy grew, the level of state aid increased, various other subsidies appeared, and in the case of EU co-financing, European funding also reduced the population's self-power. Thus, it is possible, for example, that the volume you spoke about was still this large in the '90s, it was still 250-260 thousand forints per property to be provided for the sewer investment. The company's obligation to account must clearly be accounted for, since it has to account for a penny of EU funding and use, and if the company ceases to exist, all its obligations or savings will be transferred to the municipality. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and if the settlement with the population is not completed, the municipality shall continue to do so. Once again, it's the people who make up the company and the company. [[The president's ringing again.]] who can do the best they can. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-20-112	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office: "Can we finally see how the Soros consultation is really going? It's an address. Congressman Ákos Hadházy has the floor.
u2017-11-20-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, After replying to my written question on this subject in the middle of October, the Prime Minister turned to the Hungarian Post, the National Infocommunications Service Ltd. and the Kopint-Datorg Informatics and Vagyonkezelő Kft., who participated in the technical conduct of the Soros consultation, to provide me with an insight into the process of processing the sheets of the national consultation. My request was rejected on grounds of lack of authorisation and directed to the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office. After that, of course, I contacted the Minister and asked him, but in the last month I had not received an answer, to be more precise: they called my colleague last Friday and said that I might have a look at this process. It is therefore still unclear what makes the government think that the outcome of the consultation will be accepted as credible, since the circumstances of the operation are still completely opaque. We don't know exactly how many sheets have been sent back; it doesn't seem to be enough for you. We can conclude this from the telephone campaign that they were forced to launch recently to strengthen their willingness to return, and the methodology for assessing responses is not known. I look forward to the answers to the following three questions. Where and for how long will the returns be stored? Is there any way I can finally personally verify how the technical work on the national consultation takes place in all three companies concerned? If so, who can I contact to do so? It is also important to mention that, of course, I would also like to take press colleagues with me, so that is part of my question. If there's no way, then what's the reason? Thank you very much for your answer. [[13.30]]
u2017-11-20-114	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör.
u2017-11-20-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Many people work hard so that as many Hungarians as possible can express their views in the consultation. There is little mention of division of labour, so I would like to inform you that the personalization of the items is carried out by the state-owned NISZ Zrt., the delivery is carried out by Magyar Posta, and the evaluation is carried out by NISZ's subsidiary, also state-owned Kopint-Datorg. Strict security and data protection procedures must be followed. You are otherwise banging on open doors when you want to learn about the processing process of questionnaires. You have the opportunity to do so, without, of course, getting to know personal data, because they are strictly protected by the law and should be treated separately from political opinion data. I don't know if you've agreed with your own colleague, if he's informed you of the developments, but he's actually already agreed with the government's staff on the matter of personal consultation, and I understand you've found the right time, which is this Thursday. Here, in this consultation, at this personal meeting, you can answer all your questions that go beyond the current two minutes. However, I am very sorry that you continue to attack the genre of consultation rather than giving a direct answer to the questions contained in it. This is also justified because the consultation includes, inter alia, the resettlement quota, the quota that the European Parliament voted on last week. And do you know what your representative said about this? If you don't remember, I'd like to recall. Your representative said about this quota, that he saw no other solution than the resettlement quota. Find out what's going on. Your representative said that last week, and he said on the radio that we needed a fair solution, and this is the quota. So it would be good to have answers to the questions contained in the consultation. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] After that, they're gonna deny it all. So, if you need someone behind you to put the inscription on the lie, it's just you. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Interjection from the same place: That's right!]]
u2017-11-20-116	Thank you, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Dear Parliament, At 1:32 p.m., we move on to immediate questions. Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Will he initiate an inquiry into the subsidies granted by the Minister of Agriculture? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Sándor Fazekas Minister for Agriculture to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he asks the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2017-11-20-117	I'll take it.
u2017-11-20-118	He'll take it. Thank you very much. Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor.
u2017-11-20-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. This year, I asked all ministers for a list of applications awarded by the Minister in his individual decision-making power for the period 2010-2016. Your wallet, or, if not at first, you sent me these tables on a second request, upon request and after sending me a request for data of general interest. There are some strange things about this matter that I wanted to clear up here with you in front of Parliament. Let's start from the beginning. That's the list you sent me in the mail. [[He's presenting the document.]] You can see it here. This is at least 1,500 awards, which, according to your statement, you have personally decided on each case. Another interesting thing about this issue is that you can find some strange things in them, such as 3 million forints for a traditional archery association to prepare the campaign project - I hope you agreed this with your colleague at the Ministry of Interior - or for a farmer's group of 1 million forints, the title of the application is three events. Or 1.5 million for the booth competition; 3 million for the same international booth tournament. But it is also not nothing that the rural community development, the development of rhetorical capabilities, was awarded nearly HUF 5 million. But the weirdest thing about the whole case - and I could tell you these strange things for a very long time - is that I asked you for ten applications to account for them in detail, but you could give me one out of ten applications, and the rest your wallet said you didn't have any data in the Ministry regarding the clearance of these applications. Mr. Secretary. Please don't be a lawyer. You wrote it down and sent it to me that more than 1,500 applications were decided by you at the Ministry. It is unacceptable for me that there is no account of these proposals in your ministry. Please tell me that you can account for the remaining nine applications if you can't. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-11-20-120	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Sándor Fazekas.
u2017-11-20-121	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I'm very glad you asked that question. I wish you had asked the Prime Minister originally, but, of course, I can tell you that the Hungarian administration and the Hungarian agricultural administration need to know more about the ministry's and the background institution's activities in order to ask a more sensible question here in this House. [[Lajos Korózs: Don't judge me!]] I think that this subject deserves to have the MSZPs with sufficient preparation and without intervention, because it is strange that the MSZP is calling for a rural development programme, the MSZP is asking for agricultural policy on the current government, even though they had destroyed the countryside, closed the production plants, cut down vineyards [[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP: No, it's not true!]] , sugar factories have been closed, that is true, and rural unemployment has risen to incredible heights. So the fact that you are taking a few examples now shows that you still have the same rural and anti-farming concept, because if you observe these applications, it is clear that all the things you have called for are precisely for the strengthening of village and small-town communities, so that they can produce, so that there are successful product presentations, booth competitions, festivals and similar programmes. In fact, community development is also needed, and tradition is also needed. If you took a closer look at these applications and backgrounds, it is clear that all other applications covered by the Statute of the Ministry for Rural Development could not have been decided by the wallet. This would obviously require a better understanding of the rural development programmes on your part. So, Congressman, I suggest that you not only read the applications, but also what was the specific function of BM and FM, and then you will be able to rest assured that you will be able to use the tender money. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-20-122	Thank you, Minister. Mr Tamás Harangozó is entitled to the rejoinder.
u2017-11-20-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. First of all, please don't lecture me here, okay? That's not the lineup! You're a minister who sent me a list that you've personally decided on about 1500 applications. [[He's presenting the document.]] and distributed billions of forints of public money. Then, when I ask him to be informed, to be kind enough to tell me how out of ten applications he spent the money, he informs me that nine out of ten are not at his disposal, he has no idea as a minister what the money was spent on. Mr. Secretary. There's only one question here. Now either you tell me where these money went, who used it, who accounted for it and whether it was spent fairly and legally, or if other organizations and authorities will do the same in the future, because I will go to the Attorney General for your application. There's no such thing as a minister coming here and talking nonsense instead of telling me how he can account for the money he spends. That answer is unacceptable from you.
u2017-11-20-124	Thank you. The rejoinder deserves Minister Potter.
u2017-11-20-125	Honourable Congressman, I'm not talking nonsense at all, but you have to pay more attention to what I've told you. The FM application system has been a complex structure over the past few years, and it is possible that if we do not have a project material available, it may be in one of the background institutions. [[The intervention of Anita Herring.]] , which may have ceased to exist in an institution, such as the MVH, which has been transferred to the Government Office or is located in other background institutions. Of course, these materials are accessible or accessible, and obviously it takes more time to do so. I would also like to state in this way that we can account for all the funding we have received, and we have the stakeholders accounted for. This could not be done otherwise, as the European Union's bodies at FM have already monitored payments and payments and accounts at MVH. [[Dr. László Cook's intervention.]] If you feel free to contact the Attorney General, of course the FM will also provide all the information to the Chief Prosecutor. But it's a strange concern, and it's a dynamic, accounting tendency. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] At least it's surprising to you, as Ferenc Gyurcsány used to say [[The president's ringing again.]] That we didn't need agricultural subsidies when he was your prime minister...
u2017-11-20-126	Thank you very much...
u2017-11-20-127	...so it would be worth linking up with what you said. [[The president's ringing again.]] the comment you made. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-20-128	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Prime Minister, Fidesz Zrt. As CEO, how much money do you have? It's an address. [[13.40]] Prime Minister Sándor Fazekas appointed Minister for Agriculture to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2017-11-20-129	Mr. President. I'd wait for Mr. CEO to come in here. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-20-130	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Gábor Vona, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Lameness or decency? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister Sándor Fazekas to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will personally ask the Prime Minister for the answer.
u2017-11-20-131	Mr President, It's very tempting, but I'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2017-11-20-132	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, a representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: Then let's talk about the past. It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister Sándor Fazekas to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2017-11-20-133	I'll take it.
u2017-11-20-134	He accepts the response, Minister Sándor Fazekas. Congressman György Szilágyi will take the floor - and I will settle it.
u2017-11-20-135	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz media, headed by Árpád Habony, who is a confidential member of Viktor Orbán, will attack Jobbik's representatives with old, multi-annual right-wing statements. I thought that if you are so fond of getting past the Prime Minister's stooges, then let's talk a little bit about some of Viktor Orbán's political past. Is Viktor Orbán and Fidesz still holding his old conviction, for example, that he was left behind as an incorruptible liberal and youthful heat on the Trianon peace dictatorship with a one-minute silent standing Honks? Or are they still whispering in secret, "Let's get down on our knees, let's pray!" When a KDNP representative asks for a word, because they used to do it loudly here in Parliament? Or what does Prime Minister and Fidesz today say about the minutes I'm about to quote? Bertalan Andrásfalvy, former Minister of Culture and Public Education, said here in the Parliament: "Let me add that when there is some religious or church-related manifestation from the Christian Democratic side, the group leader behind me will say: "To prayer or to sing the Hymn." These may be humor for him, but these are the constitutional offenses when we mock someone by their conviction and value. The leader of the group behind the minister was called Viktor Orbán. What do you think of another part of the record? After Emil Bogdán's speech in the MDF:, Claps in the lines of the MDF. - Dr. Viktor Orbán: I hope the Christian Democrats applaud! In the name of Jesus Christ, a round of applause! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm This was also Viktor Orbán. What do you think is the real face of Viktor Orbán: the liberal who studied on Soros money, who has been the highest-ranking liberal politician in our country for the last 27 years? He was also the vice president of the Liberal Internationale and the executive committee of the Liberal Internationale. What is the true face of Fidesz, and what is your true values in this country? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Dr. Pál Völner intervenes.]]
u2017-11-20-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister of Agriculture Sándor Fazekas.
u2017-11-20-137	[[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Viktor Orbán is Hungary's dominant statesman [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: Uh-oh! There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] who has received several two-thirds support and confirmation of government from the Hungarian nation, which you hope to dream of. I'd like to say that. [[Dr. István Apáti: You won't even be a candidate! Noise. The president's ringing the bell. Márton Gyöngyösi: Rakosi...!]]
u2017-11-20-138	Go on, Minister.
u2017-11-20-139	Dear Jobbik Group, Thank you for your attention. I also thank the House for its attention. At Jobbik, if you are dealing with the past, I think it is worth paying attention to some recent events, because the Hungarian nation has decided how to judge Viktor Orbán's activities, but soon he will decide on your activities, and you will not be able to account for your own past, honourable right-wing Members. Gábor Vona at the Spinoza House talked about giving away the Guardian vest earlier this year, but at the beginning of the year he said that he had his guard vest, and if I asked him, he wouldn't give it back. It is interesting that after the party president pushed the Hungarian Guard away from himself, Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the Party and László Lukács, the MP of the Party celebrated in Horthy Park in Keres, together with the Vice-President of the Sixty-four Vármegye Youth Movement and the Chief Constable of the New Hungarian Guard. So whatever you say, you will remain the same extremist and lying couple as before. That's my answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Z. Carpathian Daniel: But that is not the answer! It's pretty weak.]]
u2017-11-20-140	Thank you very much, Minister. Congressman György Szilágyi deserves a one-minute rejoinder.
u2017-11-20-141	That was a very sensible answer. Congratulations, Minister. Then you are still the liberals who were, so what Viktor Orbán, as Vice President of the Liberal International, has said is still valid, is that the liberal world conference in Budapest was not a significant event for the Hungarian liberals, but for Hungary as a whole. The Fidesz politician stated that the conference provided significant spiritual, moral and political support to Fidesz and SZDSZ. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. You remain the same, the same lying liberals, and if you're talking about recent, let's talk about recent. Tell me, if you are so sensitive to everything, so capable of attacking Jobbik, then why did you give money to János Zuschlag, convicted of fraud, who here in Hungary made the worst joke about the Holocaust? You supported the publication of his book with money. This is your recent experience, and what I was just talking about is your present. So you're still as liberal as you were. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-20-142	Thank you, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder shall be granted to the Minister.
u2017-11-20-143	Obviously, you will receive a praise from Lajos Simicska towards the end of today. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Dr. István Apáti: Simicska made you Minister!]] 'Cause they're so good at fulfilling your demands. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Dr. István Apáti: To protect your interest in agriculture! The president's ringing the bell.]] I can't believe how much fun and giggles I have behind my back, but I would like to say, dear Parliament, that the Fidesz-KDNP Government Association is the alliance of the national Christian parties of Hungary and the decisive national emotional party of Fidesz Hungary. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Who do you prove this to?]] And millions of voters voted for it. And you can say anything, but only Lajos Simicska's spokespersons, mouthpieces, you are the parliamentary department of the Simicska's Guard. And it doesn't change that if they try to get in the way. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dániel Z. Carpathian: So pathetic! Where are you taking the standards?]]
u2017-11-20-144	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél, Márta Demeter and Ákos Hadházy, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "Why is the government not disturbed by reality?" I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[It's constant noise. It's ringing.]] The Prime Minister has appointed Minister Sándor Fazekas to respond to an urgent public task. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP, including Joli Joker! Politheater!]] I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2017-11-20-145	The title could also refer to agriculture, but we would rather wait for Prime Minister.
u2017-11-20-146	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Ikotity... [[Noise. It's ringing.]] István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How will this become an innovation? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister Sándor Fazekas to respond. I ask you if you accept the identity of the responder István Ikotity. [[For signal:]] He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-20-147	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Minister, The Fidesz-KDNP government is not interested in building a knowledge-based society, and you do not understand at all the 21st century. The challenges of the 20th century were caught up in the 20th century. And they don't want to get out of there. It is also perfectly demonstrated by how little they spend on research, development and innovation. Let's look at the data of the KSH: since they came to power in 2010, in the last full year, in 2016, the R &amp; D expenditure reached its lowest level again as a percentage of GDP, as last year we spent only 1.22% of our investment for this purpose. In particular, public spending showed a real fall, since the previous, also ridiculously low 0.4 percent, was able to reduce spending near 0.3 percent in the last year. In practice, it depends on the entrepreneurial sphere and foreign resources whether there is any innovation activity in Hungary. The government cannot be relied upon by the country when it comes to renewal, development, and the foundation for high added value work. [[13.50]] In addition, the new R &amp; D strategy is being developed, and more specifically the 2013 strategy is being updated. They are making a huge mistake because we understand that they are planning to carve off the 1.8 percent spending planned for 2020, they want to bring it down to 1.5 percent, they want to concrete it so that in the coming years there will be no substantial increase in resources in this area. Is this really true, Minister? Don't you want to spend more on R &amp; D and support innovation? Is the renewal of Hungary not so important, its competitiveness, the promotion of creativity and knowledge? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-11-20-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Sándor Fazekas.
u2017-11-20-149	Thank you, honourable Member, for raising this issue. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Innovation is certainly important for the country's competitiveness, for future production and for many other aspects as well. The government agrees that we need to increase our resources in this area - so I agree with what you have proposed - and appropriate measures are taking place and are in the process.We intend to devote HUF 1200 billion of EU and domestic resources to innovation in the coming period by 2020. Therefore, in 2013 the government adopted the National Research and Development and Innovation Strategy, according to which 1.8 percent of Hungarian GDP should be spent on R &amp; D activities. During the EU programming period, there are conditions for this. I would particularly like to mention that the FM, the agricultural portfolio, is also doing everything in its power to create a renewal in Hungarian agriculture. This is why we have established the single agricultural research institute, the National Agricultural Research and Innovation Centre, which actually embraces all areas of Hungarian agriculture, environmental and nature protection and food economy and food safety. In addition, the basic funding of universities and research institutions, the programmes of the NRDI Fund, the programmes of the Research and Development Fund and the resources in the Structural Fund serve this purpose, including GINOP and DEKOP funds. We would also like to provide grants and non-refundable resources, and it is an important goal to have direct access to EU funds, so agricultural and food economic applications are also under way under the name BIOEAST programme. There are also sources in Horizon 2020 that the representatives of the Hungarian scientific sphere will need to seize. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-20-150	Thank you, Minister. Congressman Ikotity has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2017-11-20-151	Thank you. Minister, you just told me what I asked you. He claimed that the Hungarian budget will spend 1.8 percent on innovation by 2020. At the same time, your R &amp; D strategy states that it will decrease to one and a half percent. This is a very significant decrease. That's what I'm asking you, is it true that this is happening? Based on the preliminary evidence, it appears to be true. You specifically, obviously in connection with your field of expertise, raised fields of agriculture for research and development. This activity has to be more extensive than that. It is clear - just a few little things, though not a small one - that when EU funds benefit from these payments, innovation payments have slowed down. It is a record of how slowly innovation developments are being paid out of EU support.
u2017-11-20-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. The possibility of rejoinder also gave the Minister.
u2017-11-20-153	Thank you. As I said, the government wants to increase these frameworks - and we will also facilitate access to institutions that are part of the public or academic maintenance community. I am confident that we will be able to use EU funds directly, which is why I also called attention to the fact that there is such an initiative by the FM. But it is also a priority on the part of other wallets to help research and development and innovation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-20-154	Thank you, Minister Fazekas. Dear Parliament, Attila Tilki, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question: - How do terrorists exploit the wave of immigration? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Levente Magyar State Secretary to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2017-11-20-155	Yes, thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-11-20-156	It says yes. Congressman Attila Tilki has the floor.
u2017-11-20-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Serious politicians may no longer dispute that the immigration crisis is the most serious challenge the European Union has faced since its establishment. Unfortunately, it is also clear that Brussels bureaucrats still do not understand that Europeans do not want to receive and support hundreds of thousands of immigrants per year. In addition to social tensions, immigration is also a very serious security risk. Over the last two years, there have been more than 20 terrorist attacks in Europe, all of which were, without exception, first-generation or second-generation immigrants. The recent success of the international coalition against the barbarian terrorist organization Islamic State, freeing up nearly 90 percent of the territories it had previously held, only further enhances this threat. Terrorists can't fight anymore, they have to go, and they have to run somewhere else than to Europe, where they'll be welcomed with open arms. The irresponsible support of the Soros plan in Brussels brings these terrorists to our attention. Dear Secretary of State, The situation is more dangerous than ever before. If the Union fails to take effective steps to protect its borders, the remaining security of Europe could also be destroyed, and it is feared that the news of the near future will be about further terrorist attacks in Europe and more innocent victims. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-20-158	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Tilki. I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Magyar Levente. [[Lajos Korózs: There was no question!]]
u2017-11-20-159	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, It is true that terrorists have flown to Europe among illegal immigrants in recent years, and we still do not know what number, and where these people are staying and what they are up to today. However, the terrorist threat, the acts of terrorism in recent years, the more than 300 deaths that have been claimed by these acts, and the more than 1,300 wounded who have remained on the streets, frozen in blood after the attacks, is proof that Europe is facing a greater challenge than ever before. Since World War II, in terms of security. Let us think, honourable Member, of the number of acts of terrorism that have been prevented, if the successful ones are so large. Europe has suffered 27 terrorist attacks since November 2015. Last year was the anniversary of the Paris terrorist attack, where 130 people were slaughtered. There is consensus in security policy circles that the number of acts and attacks prevented is hundreds of times higher than those that succeed. An ongoing, terrible effort is being made by European law enforcement agencies, civil and military security agencies, to prevent further deterioration of the security situation in Europe. We are pleased to note that Hungary has missed all of this, thanks to its courageous opposition to European political expectations in terms of letting migrants in. Hungary does not allow migrants, Hungary built a wall at the southern border. He spent nearly one billion euros, more money than any other EU Member State to protect the country. That is why we are continuing our national consultation in order to ask citizens to continue this policy in order to avoid these terrible events in the future. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-20-160	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. [[14.00]]
u2017-11-20-161	Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The same people who said two years ago that immigration was a fake problem, who said a year ago that there would be no and no mandatory quota, who have been saying for months that there is no Soros plan, even though it has been on the Internet for years in an article written by Soros [[Adam Mirkóczki: Along with you!]] The same has done everything in the past few days to deny the European Parliament's decision last Thursday, which authorised the liberal MEP Cecilia Wikström to begin negotiations on the mandatory resettlement without a limit in time. Two weeks ago, Mrs Wikström was briefed by György Soros herself in Brussels, which is confirmed by a photo uploaded to the Member's Internet channel. But those who allow immigrants to enter without counting, without checking, will also have to assume responsibility when the terrorists mixed in with them come at the citizens of Europe. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-20-162	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Tilki. The rejoinder also applies to the Secretary of State of Magyar Levente.
u2017-11-20-163	Indeed, honourable Member, we cannot go without saying how irresponsible the opposition is about bringing to the attention of the Hungarian population that coordinated political actions are taking place in order to deploy an unlimited number of illegal migrants to Hungary, and they intend to use these information in a light that is not justified, such as that which has not been proven. However, we have written evidence that such plans exist. In the context of a coordinated economic and political action, the European Union central bodies, among others, are preparing to implement this. As we saw last week, the European Parliament voted in favour of a motion which envisages an unlimited mandatory introduction to Hungary without any cap, among other things. This was voted by the Balliberal Members. I think Jobbik's policy is irresponsible that the Soros plan is to be undermined, as Hungary, the Hungarian electorate, is being put at risk. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-20-164	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Hungarian Levente. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Legény, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: how do they supervise the legal operation of the municipalities? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Nándor Csepreghy as State Secretary for his reply in response to an urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2017-11-20-165	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2017-11-20-166	Thank you very much. Congressman Zsolt Legányi should take the floor.
u2017-11-20-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In the 3rd constituency of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, the town of Demecser is a settlement, where interesting things have happened and happen in everyday life. There was an interim election in this settlement not long ago, since the mayor and the body of representatives could not work together. Then there was a new body. Of course, they chose the mayor. The mayor remained the old, the board members became new, mostly Fidesz municipal representatives in the colors of Fidesz. And weird things are happening in Demecher right now. In short, the body of representatives of the municipality at the initiative of the notary, the mayor, let's say, suspended his post and set up a committee to conduct an investigation, and this investigation should be carried out in 30 days. If we were to sit up for superficial rumors and rumors, then, of course, we would not be doing well, since innocence is a presumption of innocence to everyone, but there is more to it than a series of rumors and rumors, there is more to it. We are talking about abuse by the mayor, which may have been ongoing: 50 million items, 3 million items, 5 million items, and the notary may have filed a complaint with law enforcement authorities in this regard. However, as I mentioned, this has allegedly been going on continuously over the past few years. I would therefore like to ask that you, as the Ministry of the Prime Minister's Office, who belongs to the old county administration offices, who have already been merged into government offices, who carry out legal supervision of local governments, how they supervise county government offices, if government offices are unable to carry out this judicial oversight and allow such a continuous act of justice [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Violations of law take place in any local government. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-11-20-168	Thank you, Congressman Zsolt Bachelor. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy.
u2017-11-20-169	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, government agencies must now exercise legal oversight of local governments, which is a broad task for them. Since the Member's signal is the first such request in relation to the specific case, allow me, within two days, to undertake by the Prime Minister's Office, that we will give you a full answer to your question. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-20-170	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Zsolt Legény is entitled to the rejoinder.
u2017-11-20-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Of course, Mr. Secretary, thank you very much for this offer, because it's also interesting, and I'm going to be a little bit political right now, of course, [[Defiance.]] We have received several signals in the county where there are Fidesz mayors or Fidesz municipalities, let's say, they have experienced abuse of their rights by citizens, and they believe that, indeed, here Fidesz provides a kind of net, a kind of umbrella, to follow these lawlessness. The reason why this Demecser case is interesting is because here the Fidesz mayor is suspended and tried to distance himself from the notary's complaint or the notary's case. It may be quite interesting, however, to see how it can take place in a local government, such as the transfer of money and the provision of funds and resources, if allegedly no one knows about it, and yet these abuses [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Maybe they've come true. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-11-20-172	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Nándor Csepreghy also has the opportunity in a minute.
u2017-11-20-173	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, You are aware that since 2010, the municipal assets have been consolidated, and not only the municipal stock, some 2800 municipalities, have been consolidated by the Orbán government, worth some HUF 2000 billion, but also adopted completely new rules on how to deal with public funds. In such a case, the municipality has a very clear signature right or can carry out any reference under very clear rules that the government office can control. I will also provide you with full information on this by Wednesday this week.
u2017-11-20-174	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: When will the people of Nagykőrös return the channel money? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Nándor Csepreghy as State Secretary for his reply in response to an urgent public mission. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response. [[János Volner nodds.]] Congressman Volner says yes. You have the floor.
u2017-11-20-175	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I asked János Lázár once that the families in Nagykőrös, who paid off their part of the sewerage costs, and then, without the permission of the residents, their mayor, turned that amount into something else, when later it turned out that the city had won its share from community funds, when these people were getting their money back. The question is urgent just because the payment of this money has begun, but many have been informed that they will not get their money back. Many get back the original amount, not the amount they paid, but the less they paid. This question is justified because it is people who have been able to pay more than 200 000 forints in excess of their own family, who have been indebted to their own families, and who live in small-money, very often modest circumstances. Unfortunately, this is not only the problem in Nagykőrös, because they have similar problems, for example, in Tápiószele or Nagybajádom. They don't pay back the people's share of the money they paid in the past. I ask you, Mr Secretary of State - Minister János Lázár has promised that everyone will receive this part in full, and that all inhabitants of Nagykőrös will have free channel investment, because the city has won the money from community funds - well, I ask you, Mr State Secretary, what is the situation with this, because months have passed since then. Once again, some have not been paid at all. A lot of people didn't get the money, only part of it. What about these people? I would like to represent the interests of these people, and I also think it is important to say that a Member does not represent the interests of the people at protocol events, but when it is really necessary. That's what I'm doing. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-20-176	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. [[14.10]]
u2017-11-20-177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, I absolutely agree with you, it is indeed the Member's job to deal with the people who elected him in Parliament; but it is also his job to be informed before speaking in Parliament. Because if you had done this, you would know as well as I that the Hungarian government transferred HUF 557 655 315 to the City of Nagykőrös, which the city has already referred to in recent weeks to the water utility association, which must account for each individual's payment in the framework of the winding-up. However, it is important to say that in the last seven years we have managed to resolve in a unique way in Hungary that there are no more settlements of over two thousand inhabitants, where investments in water utilities have not been completed. In general, this was done at a 60-70 per cent aid intensity in the majority of municipalities, but Nagykőrös received 95 per cent support thanks to the social situation of the city and the lobbying power of the mayor and the representatives. Since the association of water utilities decided not to use the difference amount for further improvements, such as asphalting after drainage, but to ask for the difference between the amount previously paid and the maximum aid intensity per resident, each resident will receive this amount individually, which was transferred entirely to the municipality by the government and to the water utility association by the municipality. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-20-178	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr János Volner has the floor.
u2017-11-20-179	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the State Secretary that two public forums have been convened recently. One of them was called up by MSZP in connection with the channel investment in Nagykőrös, where no interested parties showed up. I called the second one together with the local local patriot association. There were so many outraged people that they could not fit into the auditorium, and they were literally standing in the courtyard listening to this conversation during the speaker. So the reality is that people have not yet received this money, and unfortunately, what you have said is in conflict with each other. With all due respect, I ask you, Minister of State, to convey this message that we are not treating this as a political issue, but as a question of defence. See if you can find out where the money is being paid. These families should receive this amount as soon as possible, as it is a very important part of their daily livelihood. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-20-180	Thank you very much. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Secretary of State Csepreghy.
u2017-11-20-181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, As an expert in corporate law, allow me to draw your attention to a difference between liquidation and liquidation. As a result of its political past, liquidation does not deserve any further explanation; in the case of winding-up, creditors or investors will always have access to their money as soon as the legal deadline for winding-up has expired. Today, we are in the fortunate position that this amount is entirely in your account as a result of the government's decision. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-20-182	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gergely Gaal, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. How does the Government help our athletes prepare? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to answer. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[Dr. Bence Retvári points to Dr. Savolt-Szabó's Fairy.]]
u2017-11-20-183	I accept the person of the respondents even if it might be Mrs Tünde Szabó.
u2017-11-20-184	Thank you very much, but they gave me a different signal. We're listening to Congressman Gaal Gergely.
u2017-11-20-185	Dear Secretary of State, This year, our country hosted numerous international sporting events. We can be proud to host the World Cup after the World Cup and the Olympics, FINA's 2017 World Water Championship. We have witnessed an unprecedented event, as the World Water Championship was the largest sporting event in Hungary's history, the opening performance of which has been awarded an international award in two categories. With this successful setup, we have demonstrated that in two years we have been able to build out of nothing the infrastructure needed to host the third largest sporting event in the world. Our athletes were able to prove themselves at home, and the successes were not lost. Here we could cheer for Katinka Long, Laszlo Cseh, Dávid Verszató, the women's and men's water polo team. We were ninth in the World Championship's combined medal chart. Our success has further strengthened our sports power status. Dear Secretary of State, We cannot be satisfied with our success, and we must also think about the future. International experience shows that, in addition to infrastructure developments, nutrition science is becoming increasingly important in the preparation of athletes. Of course, it is important to stress that we are talking about legal performance enhancers, because it is a regrettable fact that international experience shows that the amount of prohibited performance enhancers in food supplements can be estimated at 10-15 percent. For the sake of our athletes, I ask the honourable Secretary of State how the government helps our athletes prepare. Can our country keep up with progress in nutrition? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-20-186	Thank you, Congressman Gaal Gergely. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Tünde Szabó.
u2017-11-20-187	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, in order to maintain our sports power position in the future, our athletes' successful participation in the Olympics, World and European Championships and international events, we have taken action to keep up with the international field, and we have taken a necessary and complementary measure, including the establishment of a complex service institution, the Sports Nutrition Centre. Accordingly, on 20 October the laboratory for dietary supplements was handed over within the framework of the University of Physical Education. The aim of the Centre is to detect by laboratory testing the prohibited active substances on the WADA-doping list that may be present in food supplements used by our athletes, and to help the athlete by legal means to achieve maximum performance, if necessary by appropriate means. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] by selecting a dietary supplement. The Centre's further task is to create a website for training and educating athletes, coaches and professionals, with the main aim of compiling a database and educational material to reduce the risk of doing safe doping. A unique institution was created with the establishment of the centre, no institution with a similar profile can be found in Central Europe. The Centre was established in the area of the University of Physical Education, in addition to the complete renovation of the building, it operates with the most modern laboratory technology equipment park at international level. The new generation instruments that form the soul of the institution are also able to detect as little illicit material as possible, thereby helping our athletes to prepare safely. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-20-188	Thank you, Secretary of State, Tünde Szabó. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Congressman Gaal Gergely.
u2017-11-20-189	Thank you very much for your information, Madam Secretary. Our athletes are not only a real role model for young Hungarians, but their success is also of paramount importance for our national pride and self-esteem. Their performance and the high quality of international sporting events in our country also strengthen the positive image of Hungary as a whole in the world, so it is desirable that, on the way presented by the Secretary of State, we also help their preparation and appreciate their performance. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-20-190	Thank you, Congressman. The rejoinder also applies to the Secretary of State. [[14.20]]
u2017-11-20-191	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, The establishment of the Sports Nutrition Centre is part of the development of a new campus at the University of Physical Education. Our goal is to make the University of Physical Education one of the world's most modern sports technology and sports science bases by providing the necessary sports development background. Our aim is also to help the competitiveness of Hungarian sport in the fields of applied research, development, innovation and other research supporting education, as well as to help the sport management organisation, public bodies, sports associations, sports workers and market players as a back-up institution. With the establishment of the Sports Nutrition Centre, we support the effectiveness of our athletes, but it is even more important that we help our athletes to protect their health and the cleanliness of sport. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-20-192	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is the explanation? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister Sándor Fazekas to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2017-11-20-193	I accept your identity, but I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister.
u2017-11-20-194	Thank you very much. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "When will the schools be returned to the settlements?" It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister Sándor Fazekas to respond to an urgent public task. I ask Mr Sallai whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2017-11-20-195	I do not insist on the Prime Minister personally.
u2017-11-20-196	Then you have the floor, Congressman Sallai.
u2017-11-20-197	Thank you. I listened with interest to the previous immediate question of becoming a sports power. My question will obviously be more about when we will become an educational power if they no longer have an answer as to when we will be an environmental or health power. At the moment, we have to settle for being a soccer power that little of my pro-government colleagues are asking about here and taking sport to other areas. In addition to these great powers, however, we have one other great power in nationalization. Unfortunately, this has also reached the education system in addition to the public sector, and the Fidesz-KDNP government, with its total nationalisation, has made it possible for the municipalities to have less space and opportunities to influence their education system, using their local government rights. The May Other has been saying for a long time that he would spend 20 forints out of every 100 forints on education, which is why any settlement that asks for it and is able to maintain educational institutions would return its schools with the right resources. We would conclude that schools cannot be closed; if the local government wants to keep its school, all the help must be given, because the future of a school may depend on the entire settlement, because this is not only a question of education policy, but also a question of community protection and rural development, because where the kindergarten is terminated, the school will cease to exist, and the settlement will disappear after a while. We can also ask for information on how nationalisation of schools has helped us to equalise opportunities, improve the efficiency of education or eliminate segregation, as it seems that in the model that has been leading up to 2003 too much weight on the municipalities and that everything has been pushed down by the government. But now it seems that everything is decided on Szalay Street, and the municipalities, the educational institutions, have no influence, no say in anything, and this is obviously felt on all the educational policy issues that we are pushing all day. So I ask you, when do you give the schools back to the settlements, what happens to the small settlement schools, what happens to the small villages schools, when you expect this trend to turn around? I expect your answer with respect. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-20-198	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to you, Minister Sándor Fazekas.
u2017-11-20-199	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I'm glad you asked. It is not just a courtesy formula that explains that I am saying this, because before I actually discuss your question, I would say it is surprising that you are asking, because on one of the news TV shows a few days ago you said that you would slap Viktor Orbán. I'm glad you're just asking, because it seems that politics can be other than concern for the countryside, but that it would slap the Prime Minister, that he wants to use violence against people who have a different opinion. [[Intercoms.]] It will come to that, my honourable Members. So Róbert Benedek Sallai would slap the Prime Minister, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, as the first Member of Parliament to practice since the change of regime. And after that, how shall I put it, you have the guts to ask questions here in Parliament. It's a banditism, and it's a tangible sign of werberism. I reject this kind of politics, Fidesz-KDNP rejects this ruffian idea, initiative, I don't know what to call it. I'm sure you'll explain this when it's necessary. As regards the specific question of when to return schools to the settlements, I would like to reassure the honourable Member that the schools are still in the settlements. [[It's an uproar.]] the schools are still part of the Hungarian education system, and the state that took on the institutions made such decisions precisely so that the municipalities that were heavily indebted at the time of the MSZP would have a state budget with a stable financial background behind the schools. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-20-200	Thank you very much. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman Sallai.
u2017-11-20-201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I assure you, Minister, that I will try to keep my political promise of accountability, and I hope that we will be the first government to not only make promises like you did before 2010, but also to make them account. Secondly, I can conclude that improving the quality of education is not only necessary now, it would have been good to understand a question 40 to 50 years ago and not to talk for a minute and a half about a completely different question. Returning to the question: Unfortunately, what you are criticizing is that what you are criticizing, educational advisor, educational institution, pedagogical service, the left has abolished 59 in eight years, the right has abolished 108 in April 2016. 142 out of kindergarten were terminated by April 2016, 100 out of primary school, 13 out of the cradle on the left in eight years, 32 out of you in seven years. From high school, high school, 51 were eliminated in eight years by the left, you were at 42 in the summer of last year when the statistics were made. They are halfway from a student home and college to socialist governments, until they reach the same level from vocational and secondary schools, they are both above 100. That's what I'm asking you to explain, then, how it is. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-20-202	Thank you very much. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the Minister.
u2017-11-20-203	Dear Parliament, We are all witnesses, and it will be noted in the minutes that the Member has reiterated his physical threat to the Prime Minister. [[Intercoms from the pro-government side: Yes! That's right!]] This is outrageous and unacceptable! [[Uproar, interruptions.]] The LMP promises slapping. Obviously this is the official policy of the LMP, which is what Jobbik likes. This shows the quality or lack of quality of your politics. What is the actual situation in education? On the one hand, the development of education infrastructure in 150 settlements will renew 527 schools in nearly four hundred settlements with HUF 81 billion, and the budget support for education will increase by HUF 650 billion compared to 2012. These are the real numbers, and I think that's what needs to be taken into account. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-20-204	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Bangóné Borbély Ildikó... [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] instead of - sorry - Mónika Dunai, Member of the Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. How do we support the feeding of children? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding. (To signal:) Yes. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has the floor.
u2017-11-20-205	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In Fidesz and KDNP's policies, the child is always the first. As a result of the Fidesz-KDNP administration, 208 000 children in need can also receive free meals once a day during school breaks across the country if their parents so require. This year nearly HUF 6.7 billion has been allocated to the cost of the holiday meal, which is nearly three times the amount of support for the summer children's meal in 2010. As many children have never had a free meal as they do today. With the free catering provided to all disadvantaged children in Hungary, we will also make sure that it is of quality. We increased the financial support of food rations per day by nearly 50 percent, so the amount spent on a child's one-day holiday meal increased from HUF 370 to HUF 570. We are also pleased to be able to support children under three years of age in need, in addition to children in kindergarten and school. [[14.30]] The distribution of food packages lasting for several months will take place in the framework of an operational programme to support people in need. Thanks to the program, we help children who receive regular child protection benefits and do not go to daycare and live under adverse conditions. Families with such children receive a package worth 8,000 HUF each month. Dear Secretary of State, I ask what the experience of this is, how many people we have helped in this programme, and whether it is expected that the programme will continue. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-20-206	Thank you, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-11-20-207	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Today, he published the latest OECD survey on the extent to which children are affected by poverty. Fortunately, Hungary is at the forefront of the reduction in poverty affecting children in Hungary. This shows a 5.1 percent reduction and there are only three European countries where this positive change is slightly greater, Ireland, Poland and Latvia. All the other countries in Central Europe and Western Europe are behind Hungary, and the fourth best position has been reached. According to the Romanian model that the MSZP considers today, there has been an increase in child poverty in Romania, which is what the socialists want for Hungary. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew: No, I didn't!]] By the way, the most deteriorating situation was in Greece, where poverty affecting children increased by 8.8 percent. But fortunately in Hungary, as I have said, it has decreased greatly and the fourth has fallen most within the European countries. This is also thanks to the introduction by the government of a family-type tax system, thanks to the fact that more than one million children now receive the textbook free of charge. Thanks to the very low amount of holiday camping for the Erzsébet camps, it is also thanks to the fact that the government has not only taken over a large proportion of the costs of textbooks, but also of the children's meals from the parents. If I look only at the smallest children, the number of children in kindergartens, kindergartens, has increased from 92 thousand to 318 thousand, whose meals are borne by the Hungarian state. This is due to the fact that the HUF 29 billion spent by the Socialists has been increased several times, and next year's budget includes HUF 79 billion. The Socialists felt sorry for the money from eating children, but Fidesz-KDNP provided enough money to provide social meals for all claimants in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-20-208	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2017-11-20-209	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, We are on the right track when, year after year, we spend more and more on Hungarian families and families raising Hungarian children depending on the growing performance of the economy. This also applies to the issue of children's meals. It is a good fact that there are fewer families and children in Hungary who live in poverty and are starving. Our goal is not to have any starving children in Hungary, which is why we work every day, year after year. I am pleased with the survey that you have just mentioned, Mr Secretary of State, that we are not only saying that the poverty of children has decreased in Hungary, but that is also the case, according to the OECD survey, and that we have also made great progress on this. Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-20-210	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the Secretary of State.
u2017-11-20-211	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, It is also important that there should be not only quantitative but also qualitative growth, so the government also paid attention to the fact that, for example, the daily allowance for holiday meals, which was HUF 370 per day, is now HUF 570. This is nearly 50 percent increase, in order to give children a better quality, healthier food, more fruits, more dairy products. Indeed, when Hungarian families consider whether there is a difference between government and government, they can see that they have something to lose. After all, just as the socialist governments had taken away the Socpol support, took away the subsidised housing loans, they would also take away the CSOK; just as they had taken away the tax relief for the second and third children, they would have taken away the family-type tax system. And as they took a month's wages from all families employed in the public sector, and with a month's wage they could only spend less on their children, and a month's pension from pensioners, it seems that Hungarian families have very much to lose if government is not in good hands. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-20-212	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. State Secretary Bence Rétvári, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, has applied for a post-meeting speech:. A new impetus will be given to the Danube Bend and Börzsöny. You'll have the floor in five minutes.
u2017-11-20-213	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, During the summer, the government made a very important decision for the Danube Bend and Börzsöny, as it provided very large additional resources for the settlements located here for the development of settlements, for the development of active tourism, for the development and accessibility of the living built and natural environment. This is a great step forward for Bernece's friends, Ipolydásd, Ipolytölgyes, Kemence, Kismaros, Kosd, Kospállag, Letkes, Marianostra, Nagybörzsöny, Nagymaros, Penc, Perőcsény, Sokolya, Sokolya, Sződliget, Tessa, Vác, Vácrátot, Vámosmikola, Verőc and Zebegény. These municipalities are all part of the decision to make it a priority area for tourism development. Here, therefore, we will experience ever-richer experiences, increasingly demanding environments and increasingly added value services, and we will trust it in the coming years. But let us look at the developments in these settlements that the government has been able to provide unprecedented support. On the one hand, the region of Börzsöny, which was a part of Hungary or the county of Pest that was often forgotten because of its national border isolation or its rare settlement structure, although the landscape has beautiful, at least very good qualities, it also tries to connect more actively to the country's blood circulation, especially to the tourist circulation. Thus, it provides several sources for the development of active tourism, for nature travel, on the one hand, for complex development, construction of roads, construction of tourist roads, installation of information, complex development of accommodation, HUF 1.6 billion, Börzsöny-ring, and HUF 1.5 billion for the development of the Börzsöny bicycle route. The preparation of this has already started with bicycle organisations. It is very important that there are three small trains in Börzsöny, which carry passengers in the order of 100,000 each year. So, for the development of these, the government voted for HUF 2.3 billion in support. The government also provides HUF 500 million in support of the creation of local products in Börzsöny, about the development of ambassadors to Börzsöny. It is important to be able to travel as far as possible in the area of the Danube bend in a new or old-new way, on the water. For this reason, the government provides HUF 12.5 billion for the development of speed shipping in the Danube, for the construction of ports, for the purchase of new ships and speed ships. We hope that from this, say, from Budapest to Vác, you can reach it on water in half an hour, not only down the Danube, but also upward, against the current. For Nagymaros, the development of the Danube beach, which obviously means a full, large-scale development of the historic city, provides a surplus of HUF 1 billion. This is the level of government support that Nagymaros has not yet received. It also supports Vác on a historical scale, as the city of Vác has never received such a total of HUF 4 billion as central government support in Hungary. The Fidesz-KDNP government is the one that provides the highest support for municipalities, including Vác, Nagymaros and Zebegény. The downtown of Vác Baroque is a sight for all, but it is important to keep it as good as possible. The government provides HUF 3 billion for this, and obviously instead of its development costs, the city can make other improvements with other funds. The government gave HUF 1 billion to set up the museum district. This is also a huge opportunity for the Travor Ignatian Museum to develop and become a country-renowned tourist attraction. After all, the previous mummy exhibition there has already attracted huge masses, and we trust that they will be able to present this more widely along with other local attractions. I just mentioned Zebegény, he receives half a billion forints Zebegény for a tourist settlement development. [[14.40]] Several settlements, including Verőce and Zebegény, can also be part of the development of the beach, which is the total Danube bend budget of one billion forints. It may be important for Kismaros, Szokolya and Kóspallag to set up parking points, a kind of P+T parking lot, where someone parks and hikes in Börzsöny, in the Danube bend; 400 million HUF is available for the entire Danube bend. For the development of car panorama points, half a billion forints for the whole region, for gastronomic and wine tourism development, half a billion forints for connecting products and one billion forints for the stimulation of e-mobility. We hope that this can primarily improve the quality of life of the people living there and, on the other hand, make it even more attractive for visitors, but in any case, the Danube Bend and the Börzsöny region can expect government support on a scale that has not been experienced in Hungary before. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-20-214	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr. Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, wishes to respond on behalf of the government.
u2017-11-20-215	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for your concern. Allow me to draw the attention of the Parliament, on which your speech gives me the absolute opportunity that, when the country is developing, when the economy is doing well, it is possible for the government to invest in areas in which, during the period of recession, Hungary was not able to do so in the period 2002-2010. The tourism sector is also an important and high priority sector because it accounts for about 10 percent of domestic GDP and provides direct livelihoods for more than 200,000 families. The development plans adopted by the government serve precisely the purpose of opening Hungary in a tourist sense, and it has visited Budapest, outside the capital city and in the summer season, in addition to the very popular Balaton, the country's other regions can indeed be visited and popular with regard to both domestic and foreign tourism. To this end, investments that develop infrastructure contribute greatly, investments that develop tourist attractions, and subsidies that the government grants to employers, businesses, in order to be able to return more and more money from their own productivity to improve the quality of service and to employ local workers. In order for this work to be successful, it requires not only government plans, but also representatives who consider it important to take this message and consider it important to inform entrepreneurs and representatives of the tourism sector about the opportunities that the government is opening up for them. Therefore, thank you very much for your question, and thank you very much for your work. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-20-216	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Csepreghy. Dear Parliament, At the same time, Bence Tuzson, representative of Fidesz, Minister of State, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "What does the Hungarian Government do for children living in the Dunakes constituency." You have the floor, Mr. Secretary, in five minutes.
u2017-11-20-217	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. You know, it is a very important question that the government and the Parliament, but everyone who has the opportunity to support the Hungarian families, the young Hungarians, to have children and to have more and more children in Hungary. We have made significant progress in this area in recent years, since remember that in the year 2010 the so-called fertility rate was around 1.27, i.e. how many children a woman of childbearing potential could have. We're slowly reaching 1.5 now, we're nowhere near 2.1, but there's been serious progress over the past few years, and if we continue to do so, it will be able to increase significantly. Of course, the government has the means to provide such assistance. For example, the system of family tax relief, introduced in 2010 by the Hungarian government, can be of great help to Hungarian families, since more and more money can remain with the families. In addition, the free textbook service, the free textbook, is a great help. Today it is more than a million children who can receive textbooks for free and also the issue of children's meals, it seems that Hungary is getting more and more momentum, as we are now spending 79 billion forints on this, which is three times as much as it was in 2010. This is a great help to Hungarian children, and almost every small child can now eat for free in Hungary. It is also important that our children are also physically healthy, so that they can have the joy of movement and that children move the most in Hungary throughout the European Union is a very big step forward. Thanks to this or to a large extent for the introduction of the system of daily physical education in Hungary. But, of course, in order to raise our children, it is also necessary to value our teachers, so it is important that between 2013 and 2017, the wages of teachers have been increased by 50 percent, on average by 50 percent, and even this year a 3.5 percent increase is expected. It is also very important to think about institution development that helps the smallest, helps schoolchildren, kindergarteners, crèches, and in this sense a lot of developments have been made in the largest district of Hungary, because there are now more than 26 500 children in the Dunakesze district, which is the largest district in the country. There are many children in Dunakeszin and Göd, and these two settlements are a good example of the country as a whole. As a result, Dunakeszin also completed school building. In the past, many schools have been renewed, for example, at the Fazekas Elementary School a building extension has been completed, and now the Szent István Elementary School has received a completely new 24-room building. The renovation of the old building will not fail, the Catholic Church will start a Catholic school here, and this building can be renewed with HUF 500 million of state funding. In addition, Dunakeszin has created a new sports facility, a new school, which helps children to experience the joy of movement even more fully. In addition to the fact that such developments have been made in Dunakeszin, in several places in the constituency, allow me to list some major developments: children with special educational needs should also be considered, so a completely new institution was created in Veresegyház, a new school with 9 classrooms, suitable for the placement of 160 children. In addition, Gödön, the neighbouring settlement, has a serious school development - a recent decision by the government - and a new school with 24 classrooms can be built in addition to the fact that the two other schools have been able to renew over the past period; this is a major investment, a big step forward in the life of the Gödians. In addition, the Nightingale Kindergarten was renewed and built. Developments are also taking place in Csomad, and the smallest ones need to be thought of, as a new nursery has been completed, a playground has been completed, and a small football field and basketball court are also implemented. We've renovated a school in a forest garden. In Csömör the renovation of the King Matthias Elementary School and the modernization of the music school are also taking place in Csömör [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And we also need to remember the children of Fót for a moment. It is important to take the tools of modern education to school, so there is a new smart school, a smart classroom. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-20-218	Thank you very much, Congressman, Secretary of State. On behalf of the Government, Mr Nándor Csepreghy wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2017-11-20-219	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, I am convinced that support for families is more than just a policy programme. Support for families is no less than a national policy, so the Hungarian government is committed to making more of the Hungarian people, the Hungarian taxpayers' goods, to support families every year. In 2017, this meant that we supported Hungarian families with a total of HUF 1775 billion. This includes various family tax incentives, financial family support tools, and improvements that support and support families' lives, such as nursery, school development or, where appropriate, protective care or home creation. However, Hungary is strengthening, the Hungarian economy is performing well, and this gives the government the opportunity to increase the envelope for family support. Compared to 2017, the government will receive 8.7 percent more family support in the 2018 budget, i.e. HUF 154 billion more, so the government will support the families in the 2018 budget year with HUF 1929 billion. In addition to the central programmes, of course, there are a number of support options where the government is trying to respond to specific problems or challenges of local authorities at local level, not by figuring out what the municipalities need, but by providing concrete financial support to these municipalities. [[14.50]] In this way, Congressman, allow me to recall once again the number you know: the municipality of Dunakeszi has been receiving family support and child welfare services since 2015, with a value of HUF 33.9 million, and this year it has received HUF 45.3 million. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-20-220	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Dear Parliament, Péter Ágh, from the Fidesz Group, applied for a post-meeting address: . The Anniversary of Iron Sensitivity. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-20-221	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, If a settlement in my constituency, a community, is proud of its own and its ancestors' performance in connection with a serious holiday, then I will report it here in the House of the Country. I do this because I believe that these achievements also give others the strength to appreciate their own identity and to deepen their local patriotism. I'd like to talk about an anniversary like this in Vas County. Dear Parliament, This year I took part in an event with a very nice atmosphere, in which the villagers remembered that in 2017 800 years ago the name of the settlement was first mentioned in writing in the 1217 estate register of Vasvár. This certificate shall be issued in accordance with the model set out in Annex II to this Regulation. It was issued by Since a relatively small number of documents remained prior to the Tartar Tour, this is of paramount importance: evidence that Hungarian life existed already in the northern part of the Gyöngyös Plateau. According to the chronicles, the village is XVI. Divided in the first half of the century. Larger estates were formed with great or upper silos, belonging to the families Szelestey, Zarka, Tallián, Szegedy and Bezerédj. In 1549 two noble mansions were recorded as property of the Selesteys and the Zarkas. In the subsyllicity, which was repeatedly dealt with by both the small and the noble adjectives, were inhabited by common nobles. Article 19 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. At the end of the century, Károly Riedinger was the largest owner. In 1918, Imre Bezerédj bought this economy along with his upper silos. The Gaal Castle was once owned by Imre Bezeredj. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, today's settlement was only united in 1935 from the settlements of Lower and Upper Silentism first under the name of Two-Silence, then its name was established in today's Iron Sensitivity. Nevertheless, this 800-year-old document shows that Hungarians living in this place have shared the fate of the nation in the past millennium. Think of how many and how many challenges our country has faced over the centuries, how many attacks, subjugation and dictatorship it would have endured, Tartar, Turkish, German, Russian; how many times it would have been possible to destroy the entire nation! The Hungarians, and the people of Iron Desire in it, had a life instinct greater than all the challenges that have been designed to wipe us out throughout history. What does all of this show? About the fact that Hungarians and places like Iron Sensitivity were reborn after every ordeal, if there was solidarity, as a strong community, so that they could grow. This was how the settlement was able to survive over the centuries. When we look back at this past, we find many people and monuments we can be proud of. For example, St. Nicholas' Church, such as those who started from here, including the XX. Elemér Bódi Tóth writer, poet, journalist; Alajos Nagy teacher, music historian; László Devecsery poet, writer, teacher; and György Pődör poet, engineer-teacher, mineral collector. The locals are proud of the painter István Horváth and László Vincze, the folkmason of János Sulyok, and the citizens of Gyula Major and Gyula Major. In eight hundred years, many born here have become an important builder of the fate of our country, from farmers to heroic soldiers. This is where they learned the importance of patriotism. This settlement gave them and all the Hungarians to their country, who here absorbed the respect of the homeland, the respect of the community. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can say that regardless of party affiliation, we can share the pride with which the people of Iron Sensitive look at their own home. In the performance of the past, there are many moments to which you have the right to look with a raised heart. On the other hand, we can be sure that the centuries that have passed only mark the beginning, the pages of the future chronicles are written by the present inhabitants of the village. Thus, on the 800th anniversary, we can wish for them to continue to love Iron Sensitivity, so that the spirit of cooperation for him can move the settlement forward. God bless the Iron County settlement, Iron Desire. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-20-222	Thank you very much, Congressman Peter Agh. Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a post-scheduled speech: after the Soros plan, when will they start consulting on a South Somogy plan? It's called the 3rd. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-20-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Although I was only listed in the Parliament, I am still trying to represent the interests of my constituency, South and Internal Somogy here, and the problems that we are facing there, to bring forward to my pro-government colleagues. I live in the small village, and in 55 of the 77 settlements of the district, the population does not reach a thousand people, so it is probably no wonder that the first two questions of my parliamentary career were related to this topic. So the end of the year, or the end of the coming cycle, may offer us an opportunity to show you what it was that I was talking about, unfortunately, with the effectiveness of peas thrown up on the wall. What were the first two questions? I wondered why the government would tolerate the villages of South Somogy being destroyed by foreign-interest, profit-hungry agroligarchs, and when there would be cooperation for the living countryside, for the Hungarian survival, so that instead of the ageing settlements, it would finally be self-sustaining villages, and instead of the migration from unemployment, the growing population remaining in its homeland would be able to characterize the Hungarian countryside, including South Somogy. Is your name Somogya? I wanted to get a meaningful answer in my question on why they would not do anything to save the large number of small settlements that were only dying. *Somogyország eliminates itself, or in my series of seven-part speeches entitled The Population Disaster of Somogy County, I called a demographic emergency bell, as the depopulation of our region, far beyond the national average, calls for increased help. Will Barcs ever be the capital of the Drava, or what will the government do to stop the rapid destruction of South Somogy? 'I asked because of our terrible lack of infrastructure. And in my agenda, Buried Lively, I also drew the attention of decision-makers to the small extent of the population retention force of the large number of sacks, the legitimacy of their sense of exclusion from the world. And it had a similar theme, the countryside Hungary wants to live, but what about the sidelines? Are they slowly bleeding out the wing lines? The government, following the logic of battlefield surgery, finds the area irretrievable, has it renounced the infrastructure development of the southern periphery? And with your back to the railroad? Or some of my speeches on the distress of the Somogy county sidelines, and the government finally described the southern parts of South Transdanubia? Why did you strike another nail in the coffin of the southern periphery of South Transdanubia? My questions, too. With regard to public safety, I also took the liberty of asking how many victims there would still be in the county of the aging jackals in human skin, and about one of the villages that had been torn apart from house to house from street to street, I also wondered how hostile tribal areas, or no-go zones, could develop in the domestic way, why the government would give up some of the rural overbuildings. In my series, after the death of the small villages of Somogy, Rekviem, and then after the agenda entitled "Destruction, South Somogyi Village Accommodation" I showed the Hungarian reality here six times in order to obtain a bit of a benign understanding from the pro-government lords by presenting the facts of disproved propaganda, and unfortunately, neither the power nor the Döbölyi of the area will get much for the people of Döbölyi in the region, as I proved in my speech to the Italian fashion magnificence of thousands of hectares of South Somogyi land, which was left out of the State Land Privatization Day, or the people of the people of Koppány, and the report on the colony, or through the associated agricultural companies, with it, supported by numbers. [[15.00]] Because somehow it is necessary to explain, Mr Secretary of State, my fellow members of the Government, why they are turning their own vassals or their kissers into big owners, while pushing most of the Hungarian countryside into servants. Me and the Jobbik believe in the Hungarian people in the country, I believe in the people in South Somogy, the people in the inner Somogy. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to do the same in the pro-government benches and not to wipe this area worth a better fate off the map, because the people who live there feel as if they have been forgotten by the Hungarian government. I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-20-224	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy.
u2017-11-20-225	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for your statistical report. I hope that he will be able to decide, unlike me, that his earlier speech was about the Somogyi or his own political performance. Allow me to express some of my thoughts on the previous issue. Since 2010, I think that Hungary has a government that values Hungary in the countryside much more than to represent its demographic hinterland or economic hinterland to the capital. This is why we have made specific decisions that have never been taken before 2010, for example regarding the fact that the development resources that represent approximately HUF 44 billion in Somogy County for the first time, can be decided by the settlements of Somogy County on their own terms and how they want to use them. And that is why the government has brought a development programme that supports the capital city of Somogy County, in terms of the programme, by connecting to the motorway network and, on the other hand, to make this region a key development and cultural centre. Allow me, Mr President, also to report that over the past period, some 185 supporters have decided on projects in Somogy County, including projects in South Somogy, covering some HUF 29,5 billion out of this HUF 44 billion. And the aim of these investments is to create, among other things, the possibility of opening up the employment volume of small and medium-sized enterprises in agricultural employment, to open up the possibility of real improvement in the quality of life in Somogy County, which means access to quality state services at the same time, and it means that there is a real life perspective, otherwise the country has undoubtedly suffered a lot and is difficult to manage. But there is also a need for a number of further improvements. It is necessary to examine the possibility - and if, Mr President, if you are listed in Parliament, but you feel that this area is your own, you can lobby - of opening up a southern connection to Somogy, so that we do not really talk about sacs and sacks, but of taking advantage of the accession of the European Union to Croatia, we should open up certain Corridors that really allow the southern part of Somogy County to be interoperable and thus develop improvements that will also support Somogy County in contributing to and improving its quality of life. The sums that the government has invested in the development of Somogy County - a total of about HUF 100 billion in development resources outside of operating aid - are all for this purpose; in partnership with Somogy County, we believe that although the government governs the country from Budapest, it can only do so successfully if it asks the opinion of the municipalities, the businesses living there, which work every day for their own well-being, in the interests of employment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-11-20-226	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Csepreghy. Dear Parliament, Péter Hoppál, a representative of Fidesz, Minister of State asked for a post-meeting speech with the title of government support for folk art and choir culture in Baranya. You have the floor, Congressman, Secretary of State.
u2017-11-20-227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Looking back to the past, our great ancestors became emblematic patriots by defending Hungary's cultural and political sovereignty and gaining independence. The country whose people are linked by national culture is strong. Every step of the Government of Hungary that protects, strengthens and promotes our national culture as the foundation of the Hungarian future reminds us of the joint responsibility for Hungarian culture. Hungarian culture is of particular importance to us in that it is our most important solidarity with our Hungarian brothers who live outside the borders today. Only our culture can preserve us and keep us together as Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin. In view of this, the government launched a special programme covering the entire Carpathian Basin in its programme for supporting folk culture named after Sándor Csoóri, worth HUF 7.5 billion, and this is the reason why the Minister of Human Resources has announced a 100 million HUF proposal to support school choirs. Ladies and gentlemen, The deepest well we can touch - living with Kodály and Bartok - is a pure source, but only a folk culture. The aim of the Csoóri Sándor programme is to help the professional work of Hungarian and ethnic groups and Hungarian folk dances, folk music bands and folklore groups across the border, which have been regularly and officially active but not professional groups for years. The allocation of grants has recently been completed on the basis of proposals from a highly prestigious technical advisory body. This year's application by Sándor Csoóri has 1376 beneficiaries, of which 592 organisations are organisations that preserve the traditions of folk culture in the Carpathian Basin. Their loyalty, their work, is recognized by the government with this support. As a member of the Parliament of Pécs, I am proud to say that Baranya County is also doing its part in the operation of the non-professional folk groups, since only the number of small county communities receiving the tender is 27, and the total amount of support they received is HUF 56.9 million. These amounts can be spent on their daily operation, such as folk costumes, musical instrument purchasing, dance house programs, professional and technical expenses by small communities who have a folk tradition. I would like to congratulate you on your successful participation in the competition. It is a special pleasure for me that there are a significant number of such organisations and groups in the Pécs and hops regions. Dear Parliament, The other day, a dear young foreign folk dance teacher told the television: in his family he learned that he was not the Hungarian whose grandfather was, but the one whose granddaughter would be. The only way to transfer culture to future generations is to start dealing with it in time, according to Kodály, before birth. Numerous research shows that early contact with culture has a positive impact on many areas of child development. In view of this, the government and the Ministry of Human Resources have launched a program of daily singing involving renowned experts, including a hundred million HUF budget for the promotion of the human resources minister for the establishment of choirs and support for the work of existing choirs. Out of the 289 applicants, 228 received support for choir operations and 61 received support for the establishment of a new school choir. In this competition, 16 school choirs from Baranya County won support, 14 of them from the city of Pécs, with a total value of nearly HUF 7 million. I congratulate the folk and choir groups throughout the country and in my constituency, Baranya. Many people don't even know how important their work is to him. Their support also depends on whether we manage to preserve the rich source from which our Hungarian culture feeds in the present. This is the responsibility of all of us at home, in the settlements we represent, in the government work and here, in the Hungarian Parliament. I wish everyone to do their part and to continue to succeed in this area. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-11-20-228	Thank you very much, Congressman Peter Hoppál, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, Before continuing to address the agenda, I would like to announce that, at the initiative of the Group of the May Other Politics, the extraordinary meeting of the House Committee will take place today at 4 p.m. in Room 37-38 of the Parliament's main floor. I now give the floor to the Fidesz MEP Sándor Bodó, who has applied for the post-the-meeting part of the railway line: the development of Püspökladány - Ebes! It's an address. You have the floor in a five-minute time frame. [[15.10]]
u2017-11-20-229	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In the history of a nation, it is always of paramount importance to think about and work towards long-term future developments by its leaders. This is true in all areas of life, but in my opinion it is particularly pronounced and important in terms of transport improvements. The accessibility of an area obviously affects the quality of life of the people there, and determines the pace of economic development. Evidence of this - and unfortunately also a negative example - is that during the storms of history we were able to survive when, in connection with the Trianon dictatorship, the Hungarian road network and the railway network actually suffered damage that they have not been able to recover from until today. There have been abandoned roads, there have been no rail networks leading anywhere, or almost no cooperation with neighbouring road or rail networks has been established, and there has been no continuation. Each age therefore had its characteristic, decisive transport sector and development efforts, and these were always organised by common sense. In addition to new endeavours, there have always been evergreens, eternal aspects, and railway construction is still one of them. Our residence, the 5th constituency of Hajdú-Bihar county, is crossed by the 100-rail main line, ensuring transport to Szolnok-Budapest and towards Debrecen and Nyíregyháza. The Bishop's Lady has always been a railway hub, with significant passenger and freight traffic moving towards Romania. Hajduszoboszló is a very attractive tourist center, many people still travel by train to the spa town today. In order for the railway to meet the requirements of the age, this sector needs to be developed. Fast, safe and accessible transport is now a legitimate expectation for travellers. During the previous EU cycle, the railway track, the insurance facilities, the station building between Kisújszállás and Bishop's Lady have been modernised. The next step is the renovation of the section between Bishop's Lady and Ebes, which also affects Kaba and the already mentioned station Hajduszoboszló. The HUF 74 billion investment represents the development of many areas of rail transport. In addition to the development of the nearly 31 km long railway track, the track network is also developed for Kaba, Hajduszoboszló and Ebes stations. The renovation of Hajduszoboszló station will be completed, which is the request of the people here for decades. The stations will be freed from obstacles, and lifts will be installed at the stations to help the comfort of the population. Accessibility is no longer made up of elevated platforms, but we also have to think of those who are more difficult to move in transport in a completely understandable way, so there is nothing special about having lifts in the station building or accessing platforms in this way. In the case of the three settlements, hundreds of parking lots will be built to facilitate the conditions for environmentally friendly, economical transport. I think there is no need to justify in particular the environmental and travel management benefits of the P+R approach. It is also important to mention that hundreds of meters of noise protection walls are being built to ensure the interests, protection and comfort of the population. Without a more detailed list of technical content, we can see that decades of problems will be solved with this development, which is a huge step forward for the people living here. The figures therefore speak for themselves, we can talk about huge improvements, which will determine the transport possibilities of the region for the next decades, with the main aim of increasing the quality of rail services, creating and developing safe and environmentally friendly transport opportunities. The tens of thousands of people living in the region will therefore be facilitated by this HUF 74 billion investment. It is a number of advantages for everyone, which is why I am confident that the inhabitants of the region will be able to benefit from this development as soon as possible in line with the timetables. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-20-230	Thank you, Congressman Sándor Bodo. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-20-231	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to express my appreciation to the profession - not to the government, first of all, before the Secretary of State misunderstands the group dynamics, but to the profession - that they have given appropriate professional recommendations on where it would be appropriate, say, to expand the family support system and, of course, to retain the system of family tax incentives when it comes to the Jobbik government, because what is good, we do not want to touch it. However, to point out a shortcoming right away, the sabotage of the government's home-building programme has led to the fact that the masses of Hungarian young people and middle-aged people - so, Mr. State Secretary, hundreds of thousands of people - feel that it is impossible to set aside an independent property in Hungary at the current level of payment. I understand that in terms of the CSOK, they have tried to favour a certain social segment up from the upper middle class, but what you have to see is that for the typical Hungarian people living on average, it is a fantasy to get a single home today, and many, tens of thousands, but I may not exaggerate if I say that between 100 and 200 thousand people have chosen to work abroad because they are unable to get a home of their own without family support. When talking about the minimum improvement in the various fertility indicators, I would like to express my joy, so when 1.23 goes up to 1,45, let us not argue that this is to be welcomed, but let the fellow Members leave out the introduction that the base, as far as the number of women of childbearing potential is concerned, is extremely narrowing in parallel with the ageing of the Ratko grandchildren. And if you sit in any university, you don't need a demography class, but you will also face a full 1.0 course, and you will also face the fact that, although the willingness to have children has increased minimally in proportion to the families concerned, the number of such families will decrease quantitatively, the number of marriages is so much lower, and unfortunately, the number of living births has fallen so much as compared to 1990 levels, that demographic winter in Hungary will actually be treated as a fact in the next 30 years. So we cannot say that winter is coming, we can say that we are heading towards the middle, and if we do our job very well, we can get out of this in a way that is above governments with a 30-year plan of action. Obviously, the. How much longer? The following series of agendas is primarily about the Calvary of foreign exchange credentials, but this area is connected here. It is linked here, as the government ignores the fact that, once again, tens of thousands of people were forced to leave the country in a lower voice because, from the level of payment here, it is unable to meet its debt repayment obligation following the government's messed-up settlement package, and, where appropriate, it pays its bank credit here in the Benelux States on a salary earned in one of the slaughterhouses to date, without any hope of recovery. Now that the eviction moratorium is in place, this week the betterman still received distress signals regarding the executioners' attempts, certain enforcement procedures are in progress, and where appropriate, there are fears of possession, not otherwise from the auctions, so it can be seen that this temporary outburst of problems has not stopped the whole system. So why I asked for this opportunity to speak in the first place today, is to speak to the citizens who have been harmed by foreign currency credit, as Gábor Jobbik Vona has done with the participation of the foreign exchange loan round table, and then listen to their voice, which I am articulating here, and I will bring you their message. The position of the credit-damaged NGO leaders is clear: eviction moratorium is not enough, it must be complemented by an implementation moratorium which will stop ownership and auctions in cases declared to be foreign exchange-credited, i.e. in the bouquet to be classified, until this will resolve this whole problem in a manner worthy of the government's commitment, or the Jobbik government, which will have no opportunity to set up after the elections, will have the opportunity to settle the same for you. This whole problem has been going on for seven years, and we see that there are still over 140,000 contracts, family members behind them, contractual partners threatened by the horror of eviction, whether after the parliamentary elections, loans have not been HUFed at the rate of admission, the robbing mechanism is in place. [[15.20]] Our questions, requests, demands and demands are therefore clear: let this government show courage, face the obligation to settle with foreign exchange credit. And if you do that, I'll tell you that the emigration spiral will slow down, and there will be demographic positive aspects of everything. In the meantime, the demographic winter will remain at the same time. Until this government shows courage, we can see it cements the situation and only one next, a Jobbik government, can move towards positive processes. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-20-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Nándor Csepreghy wishes to respond.
u2017-11-20-233	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I am not one of those politicians who believe that the opposition would not be an active shaper of political life, so let me listen to your optimistic comment on the future of your party to draw your attention to Jobbik's political performance and to your desire for Hungary. After all, today, perhaps we both agree, the creation of a home in the life of a young family in the majority of cases, the majority of Hungarian families actually have family cooperation, parents or, where appropriate, relatives on the side should also contribute to the ability of a family to start a family in life. And in this connection, neither is the aspect of how Jobbik behaves in Parliament, what there are, what intentions and what activity, what political work is behind the beautiful words. Allow me to recall some parliamentary votes to you, including those which were intended to support the accountability of banks and thus the preservation of foreign exchange creditors, or, for example, the forinting, which was here before the Parliament, which Gábor Vona himself did not vote for in addition to many better politicians. [[Dániel Z. Kárpat's continuous interventions.]] Or allow me, Member, to refer back to the vote on the introduction of the exchange-rate barrier, which provided concrete assistance to 185 thousand Hungarian foreign exchange-crediters - Gábor Vona did not vote for this either. Or allow me to talk about the introduction of the eviction moratorium, which was also not voted for by Gábor Vona. And allow me to talk about the hundreds of thousands of foreign exchange-credited families that Jobbik, after saying the political passwords, apparently left on the side of the road, from which we can essentially draw one conclusion: I do not see what will happen in the future in 2018, it will be decided by the Hungarian electorate, but if, on the basis of the performance so far, the foreign exchange-credited or authentic families are watching how Hungarian political parties perform, they will meet a coalition, the Fidesz-KDNP coalition, which stands on the side of families. And they meet with a coalition or an opposition alliance, which either openly or latently voted for the banks, including Jobbik. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-20-234	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Csepreghy. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech. As a 21st-century party, Jobbik faces the new challenges of the 21st-century - VIII. the title of the subpart. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-20-235	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Let Jobbik be the 21st. 21st century challenges I have a series of speeches to present in the 20th century. I should like to talk about the e-sports that Jobbik was talking about for the first time in Parliament, and not just for the first time, but for the sole reason that no other party or Member has ever done this. I spoke about the importance of e-sports here in the Parliament myself in May, drawing attention to the need to pay attention to e-sports, not to the detriment of traditional sports. On Jobbik's part, bearing in mind the huge popularity of e-sports around the world, 200-300 million people watch the high-profile broadcasts, and this number is constantly increasing, and that it has a significant fan base of hundreds of thousands of people at home, we believe that it is necessary to become part of the public discourse, because it is possible to deal with its advantages and possible dangers. Ladies and gentlemen, PlayIT, one of the organizations of e-sports, visited in Budapest and rural events in 2015 with a total of 100,000 people. On average, 8-9 thousand visitors in the countryside, Hungexpón was present in Budapest in 2015. These figures reflect the facts, and the facts are stubborn. And unfortunately, it is a fact that today there is still insufficient attention or sufficient proportional attention to the subject of e-sports, despite Jobbik's raised the subject of e-sports here in the previous term. More than four years ago, in June 2013, we already asked the government a written question so that the Hungarian player and organizer of e-sports could receive financial and other support at various events and competitions. On the basis of the same considerations, even in November of the year, we initiated a proposal to amend the budget to include such a separate resource in the budget for the benefit of an e-sport institution. Then, in chronological order, I followed my already mentioned speech in Parliament, where I urged that previous stereotypes should be forgotten, and it should be recognised that e-sports are not only a popular trend worldwide, but also at home level, which should not only be taken into account, but should also be addressed, so that it can be made public. At the time, I said that I was confident that, here in Parliament, we could talk as soon as possible about what good international practices we could take in for the development of domestic e-sports. See for yourself, Jobbik's plan is becoming more and more realized. As we have already said, Jobbik has taken on a pioneering role in this matter, not only at the level of words but also at a strategic level, taking it seriously, in fact, at the 21st century. It's the mentality of the century. This is also reflected in the fact that Jobbik is the only party with a national presidency dealing with e-sports. My fantasy may be finite, but it's hard for me to imagine it from the Fidesz board meeting, for example. Not only are they ignoring it, they probably don't even know what e-sports are. The fact that which party takes this question seriously also shows that an e-sports roundtable discussion took place in September, in which the parties could express their views, such as the MSZP, Fidesz or even the LMP did not come, and only Jobbik represented itself at the parliamentary level. Dear Parliament, After all this, the news published in the Hungarian Gazette was a pleasant surprise that the state, the government, supported financially the conduct of an e-sports tournament and conference between the four countries of Visegrád. Clearly, we welcome such a decision, we consider it to be forward-looking. At the same time, I do not want to hide the fact that I have it; we have doubts whether it is a real intention, or whether it is a campaign before the elections. Because so far, Fidesz-KDNP has never dealt with this issue, and even with my question of support, they have answered that they only support real sports. And then when it's only a few months before the election, they suddenly changed their minds. With the interest of the case in mind, I trust that this is not a campaign course, but a long-term strategy to support e-sports is available, and there will be agreement between the parties. Dear Parliament, Jobbik also expresses its appreciation and joy and would like to congratulate the Hungarian organization for the Hungarian sport, which, thanks to its persistent work, has led to a big step forward in the field of e-sports. We wish you success in organizing and organising the event. For the promotion and promotion of e-sports, Jobbik is the 21st. 21st century People's Party He sees me as a 100th-century point of reference. We continue to claim this, and I can assure you and the Hungarian representatives of e-sports that we will continue to take action on this issue as the largest opposition force and hopefully also in the government. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-20-236	Thank you very much, Congressman. Attila Tilki, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "The Remembrance of Solyva." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-20-237	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, November, the end of November is always a sad time in the lives of the people of Transcarpathia. According to the order of war of the fourth Ukrainian front in 0036, until 14-16 November 1944 military commanders of cities and larger settlements registered soldiers and officers who served in the German and Hungarian armies, as well as those who were German and Hungarian nationals aged 18-50, and then carried them by convoy escort and marching columns into camps for prisoners of war, claiming that they pose a threat to the hinterland. [[15.30]] Some estimates suggest that up to 40,000 people may have been killed. The Transcarpathian Hungarians, extended by 23 settlements in Beregregi - Barabás, Beregdaróc, Beregsurány, Csaroda, Gelénes, Gulács, Hetefejércse, Jánd, Lónya, Márokpápi, Matyus, Tarpa, Tákos, Tiszaadony, Tiszakerecseny, Tiszaszalka, Tiszavid, Tivadar, Vámosatya, Gergelyi, Ugornya, Vitka, 3 Satmár settlements, Milota, Tiszabecs and Uska - were taken to forced labour camps for a short time. According to the reports of 17 December 1944, 15 152 people from the 23 villages in Bereg and 3 in Szatmár, 14 999 Hungarians and 162 other nationalities, German, Rusin, Ukrainian, Slovak, Czech and Romanian were carried from Transcarpathia. In the memorial park built at the site of the first assembly camp, Szolyván, we have been remembering the abductions, the tragedies of families for several decades now. Last year, 2016, the memorial plaque of the three settlements in Satmár came out, and it was touching, as the three village communities remembered with their pastors those who died when they were young. Last year we decided with László Zubánics' Transcarpathian historian that the tables of the 23 truncated settlements in Bereg should also be in the memorial park. I would also like to thank the Hungarian Government for the successful application of the Solyva Memorial Committee to prepare the 23 tables for the Gulag-Gupvi Memorial Year. On Saturday, too, there were many who attended the Memorial in the rain. With a bride in their hands and tears in their eyes, they once again said goodbye to their loved ones. Hungarian history has many, many, today even less processed areas. This happened at the end of 1944 in Transcarpathia, Satmar and Bereg. Few people are aware that Csonka-Bergeg and the three villages in Satmar wanted to be part of the Soviet administration. Like the head of the bridge in Bratislava, we could have lost another area here if there were no young military officer Tibor Tollas of Kecske, who drew the attention of the Allied Control Committee that the empire was about to be anecdated. Lieutenant Tibor Kecskesi, who became known as Tibor Tollas in the emigration, reported to the Ministry of Defence, and then returned to the region with the risk of his life, collected data and evidence about the preparation of the attachment. The evidence was presented by the Hungarian Government to the Allied Audit Committee, whose Western members prevented the Soviet Union from connecting these areas to itself. Tibor Tollas thanks to the fact that the villages have remained part of Hungary to this day. Unfortunately, there were those who betrayed the Hungarians, who could do anything for money and power. There was a village where some people lined up the houses and told the Soviets if anyone was hiding in a barn or a shed. But interestingly, they also knew exactly where those whose values could be abducted. Jándon only went to the Reverend, they knew exactly where he lived and what his values were. You have to imagine what it must have been like for a wife to lose her husband again, who had just returned from the front, to be with her loved ones for a few days, and then to be dragged away to a Malanki robot. It was possible to capture many, many personal tragedies in connection with the Memorial Year. That way we can get to know our silent history better. We also understand and imagine how it could have happened that, many times, the wife, the parent, the child did not get to know the man who came home from captivity. While standing in the memorial park of Solyva and hugging the Carpathians, we could imagine what it was like for prisoners living in inhuman conditions to endure difficult physical work and weather conditions. Péter Szilágyi, Deputy State Secretary for National Policy of the Prime Minister's Office said at the memorial that we do not allow any withdrawal from the right of Hungarian communities, whether it is human, political, language or educational law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-11-20-238	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Tilki. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 27 November 2017. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed, and I wish you a restful day. [[The meeting ended at 3:34 p.m.]]
