u2017-12-12-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning. Dear Parliament, The 29th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and István Szávay, notaries, will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, from the MSZP Group, applied for a pre-scheduled speech: somewhere in Europe! ? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-12-12-1	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State! Dear fellow Members, A new publication of the KSH has recently been published on the situation of Hungarian households. In the context of the publication, government propaganda not only talks about what shows a positive picture of the state of the country, but also describes some statistical numbers that nuance the picture a little bit. Firstly, in contrast to what some government members claim, poverty has not ceased in Hungary, there are still families living in poverty and there are still hungry children. Despite some indicators, the proportion of people living in poverty is falling, in 2016, 2 million 465,000 people were affected by at least one dimension of poverty, representing 25,6 percent of the total population, i.e. one quarter of the population. The change in the indicator didn't even reach 1 percent. More than half of their children alone are living in poverty. We are talking here about 320,000 families and about half a million children. More than 31 percent of children suffer poverty or social exclusion. Moreover, the situation of people over 65 has deteriorated further compared to 2015 according to the complex indicator. According to income poverty figures, the proportion of people over 65 has increased by 33 percent. The KSH also describes the fact that the group of those with a maximum primary education was more than three times more affected by the risk of poverty or social exclusion than by the two with a higher education degree. Compared to this, the government does not want to improve the quality of public education, but to further destroy it. Think of breaking up the vocational training system or reducing the 18-year-old obligation. Today, more than 50,000 children are out of education due to this. And many of the better-off people don't even want to start their adult lives here in the first place, they also go to university abroad, many of them never return to their home country, Hungary. In terms of income, the three- and more children and single parents remained in the worst situation. Their average net income per capita was below two thirds of the national average. Indicators of income inequality are also unchanged. The difference between the average gross income of the lowest and the highest tenth was more than ten times the difference. There is still much greater inequality in Hungary than in 2010, no matter which indicator we look at. It is interesting that, according to subjective income expectations, the income required by the respondents for the average lifestyle is slightly double the difference between those living in the lowest decylis and those living in the highest decylis. Yet, in reality, there is more than ten times the difference between their actual situation. We remind you that even a close-to-government survey found that almost 60 percent of respondents lack family allowances, more than 43 percent do not support the return of mothers to work, more than 62 percent say that three children can not be raised in Hungary today, more than 73 percent believe that the Hungarian pension system is unfair, and almost so many respondents say that the state does not provide a decent living for pensioners. I've been trying to get a little summary of this year. I have to say here that some of the measures that we have tabled this year to improve these poverty figures are important: increasing the family allowance, raising the minimum pension, increasing the child's meals on holiday and extending the benefit of child feeding to high school students - some of the measures that would have improved the poverty indicators, but we know that the government representatives have voted off every time. I would like to draw your attention to an action today, my fellow Members, to the stagnation of civil society organisations with regard to food distribution. We have cooked you cabbages filled with my fellow Member, which you will receive today. I ask you very much to support the homeless vodka that operates in Budapest. We put a box in front of the faction office. Please donate, because it is our responsibility, our greatest responsibility, to eradicate poverty in Hungary. A sentence, if Mr. President would allow it. In the words of Pope Francis, I wish all my fellow Members and all the inhabitants of Hungary a blessed and happy holiday:. The Christmas of the Lord is an opportunity to pay more attention to the needs of the poor and to all those who, like Jesus, find no reception. I wish you all a blessed, happy holiday. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-12-12-2	Thank you, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. On behalf of the Government, Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, responds.
u2017-12-12-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I agree with the post-five part of what you said, and allow me to add the pre-Five-minute part to the items contained in this summary of the HCSO on the basis of Eurostat methodology, but you have been left out of the speech of the Member, or what was included in it, has not been expressed in the true approach over the past period. The title of your speech is "Somewhere in Europe!" ? It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, You know, in Europe, there are few countries where the minimum wage or the minimum wage of skilled workers increases as much in a few years as in Hungary. Fortunately, Hungary is among the best performing European countries. There are also few countries, even among OECD countries, where teachers' wages have increased in five years as much as in Hungary. We also find little where medical wages or nursing wages would have increased. We are not saying that we have reached the point that we would like to give doctors, nurses, or teachers, but we can definitely pay much higher wages. However, why the figures you left out of your speech or made it look false: because the Fidesz-KDNP government has based its economic policy on job creation and on the people of Hungary, so that more and more people work, people pay less and less taxes, businesses pay less and less taxes, and Hungary can expand. So allow me to give you some of the data you've left out. On the basis of this statement, the income grew in the lowest four income tenths in Hungary. In English, the biggest increase was the income of those who had earned the least. As a result, the difference was reduced between better and worse earners, better and poor. Of course, we would like to improve this, but it is an important tendency that the scissors will not open in Hungary, but the scissors will close. If you compare this with the EU average for which the figures are found, then the rate of Hungarian social differences is lower than the similar difference rate for the European Union. Thus, income differences in Hungary are lower than the EU average. [[8.10]] This statement also states that the share of income quarters is slightly shifted from total income to the benefit of the poorer, in Hungarian they earn some more income. Even in recent years, people have been able to save money by reducing their overhead, reducing their VAT on basic foods, and now they have more confidence in the future, as the personal expenditure per capita has increased by almost 8 percent, so that people can spend more and what they have saved at energy costs can now be spent on themselves. But even if I look at the value spent on fruit consumption, they were able to spend 11.2 percent more in real terms. Luckily, in addition to mandatory overhead and other expenditure, it is now possible to obtain expenditure on non-living directly. One of the good indicators of this is that there are now 186 mobile phones for 100 households, 52 of which are smartphones. The proportion of these also continues to increase in Hungary. Allow me also to correct your comments on young people. After all, in the highest proportion, it is reported that the fact that they are less and less at risk of poverty has positively affected the age group under 18. This means that fewer and fewer families are in a difficult, financially deprived situation, and obviously their children are out of the poverty risk. This is a trend that has improved since 2012, and I say that the highest proportion of children are affected by the ability of their families to get out of the poverty situation. You have talked about the prospects for primary or tertiary graduates, or how they are at risk of social exclusion. It also states that the big difference that it was has decreased somewhat in recent years, and most importantly, the number of people exposed to material deprivation has decreased by about 150 thousand over a year, according to this statement. We see such positives not only in terms of big numbers, but also in terms of broken numbers. Allow me to draw attention to a few trends since 2012. Those who have a loan or housing deficit have lost more than a million people. Anyone who has a problem with the proper heating of the apartment has dropped by 766 thousand. Anyone who doesn't have cover for an unexpected release, say, to replace a washing machine, has nearly halved their number. The number of people who cannot afford a one-week holiday has decreased by 1.9 million a year, and in Hungarian nearly 2 million more people can now afford a one-week holiday a year; and the number of people who allowed themselves to eat meat every two days has increased by 1.7 million. These are positive trends; this is how I wish you and the Members of Parliament a merry Christmas. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-12-4	Thank you, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Mátyás Firtl, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also applied for a speech before the agenda.
u2017-12-12-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2001, the Hungarian government declared 14 December the day of the Sopron referendum in 1921 as a day of loyalty to the Hungarian nation, so that the historical act of loyalty to the eight settlements of Sopron and its surroundings should be an example of strengthening national cohesion in front of all Hungarians. All of this was the result of the two battles of the Wall, the diplomatic genius of Minister Miklós Bánffy of Transylvania and the vote of the Germans, Hungarians and Croatians in the area of Sopron, the collective will of thousands, either declared in the battle or at the negotiating table or in the voting booth, which overrided all other interests, made the Hungarians who suffered the times of historical trials united and strong. Ladies and gentlemen, This is not a precedent of national love and loyalty, nor is it unprecedented in the history of the region. Just a few years before the Trianon decision and referendum, in August 1917 the Hungarian Royal 18th Sopron infantry regiment defended the easternmost part of Hungary in several days' struggle, in one of the most glorious battles of Hungarian military history, with heroism whose memory is still alive. Sopron's still proud of his 18th Army. The 17 464 heroes of the infantry regiment are commemorated in Sopron by a military monument; a wooden row and a copy of the original Optozi honvédkő announces the actions of the heroes of the Battle of Ojtoz. In 2007, the Sopronians re-established in the Ojtozi Strait the honvédő that had been destroyed decades before, and the memory of the Sopron 18s also lives in Ojtoz. It was an uplifting feeling for us Sopronians to experience in person in August of this year, when on the centenary of the Battle of Ojtoz a prestigious ceremony was organized by the Consulate General of Hungary in Szíveda at the site of the Battle of Bereck. The 100-year anniversary was a celebration of the heroes of Ojtoz, a celebration of patriotism, and a worthy celebration of national solidarity as the basis of our spiritual, spiritual value, which is the basis of our nation-building and strengthening work. Sopron, Bereck, Ojtoz is literally a cross-border relationship, proof of our living and living union to this day. A hundred years and a nation's trying historical storms are living proof of what the national policy of the Orbán governments has always represented, that the Hungarian fate community cannot be hindered by human intentions or borders, because it is held together by providence and faith. The faith that kept the nation for more than a thousand years according to St. Stephen's purpose, strength, and action. This is the resource of the unity and belonging of the nation, which eliminates the geographical distance, which ensures that there will always be such people as Zoltán Dimény, Mayor of Bereck, Sándor Tibad Berecki or Krisztián Brummer, local historians of Sopron, and we will always be those who will fight to protect our traditions, our faith and our common values. Our community of fate is based on our Christianity, our Hungarianness, the community of the nation, and our most noble Europeanity serving to strengthen and grow it. Dear House, "We are Hungarians," announced the special edition of Sopronvár County on 17 December 1921. As Sopron was loyal to the crown in 1277, then loyal to the nation in 1921 and loyal to the nation on December 5, 2004, because the referendum for dual citizenship was valid and effective in our region, so our 18ths fought faithfully for the nation. Ladies and gentlemen, In the providence of God, in the faith and deed of the Hungarians, I wish to the nation from Sopron to the Ojtozi Strait to keep our nation's love in such a way that thousands of years, even after centuries, our descendants can proudly say on our holidays: we are Hungarians. Thank you for your attention, and as a representative of Sopron, I may have been able to express these thoughts for the last time. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-12-6	Thank you very much, Congressman Mátyás Firtl. On behalf of the government, Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State, tells his thoughts.
u2017-12-12-7	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to begin with a quote. Dear National Assembly! The Government attaches such importance to the welcome results of the referendum held in the referendum area in Sopron, based on the Venetian agreement, from an internal and mainly foreign policy point of view, that it considers it justified to legislate on this historic event. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. On 14 December 1921 Sopron and the surrounding eight settlements decided in a decisive referendum that they wanted to belong to Hungary and that they did not want to change their country and heart. [[8.20]] The result of the referendum is well-known to everyone, and the population of Sopron has decided to vote for Hungary by overwhelming majority. In 1922 the National Assembly donated the title of Civitas Fidelissima, the most loyal city to Sopron. The city is proud to wear this title in its coat of arms today. Our ancestors have set the way, by their exemplary deeds they serve as guidance for future generations, for us, that in such trying times, loyalty and patriotism can be our only support. Sopron, as the most loyal city, was bravely placed in the referendum on unparalleled affiliation in Hungarian history. And we cannot forget that for a hundred years now the citizens of Sopron and the local communities were at home in Hungary, at home and safe. But World War I came, the world changed around them, and the world wanted to take the country away, and with a feather stroke, he wanted to push everything that had tied them to the motherland all their lives. The most important thing we owe to these people is our absolute loyalty to our country. This is the guiding principle on which they made the decision at the time, and this is the guiding principle that also controls our policy, this is the guiding principle in which the Sopron soldiers fought, and this is the guiding principle in which the Hungarian defences defend the Hungarian country proudly at the southern borders today. There were referendums elsewhere in Europe, between Denmark and Germany in 1920, between Germany and Poland in 1921. In addition to the legitimate arguments from the Baltic to the Adriatic, the irregular free teams appeared, as happened on August 28, 1921 at Ágfalva, where students and college students from Sopron, farmers from Hungary and university students from Pest, fought. In addition to Sopron and the surrounding settlements, even other settlements defied the then dictatorship. The inhabitants of the village of Vas county, with the help of the neighbouring inhabitants of Kerca and the border guards stationed there on 1 August 1920, forced the invaders out of their village in an armed battle. Although the success was followed by a counterattack, after long negotiations on 8 February 1922, Szomoróc was able to rejoin Hungary, and today the two villages form a community under the name Kercaszomor. These anniversaries and round anniversaries are especially suitable for realizing the posterity, for us to drive ahead of the noble deeds of the ancestors. This is how it happened in 2001 on the 80th anniversary, and so it is hoped to be on the 100th anniversary in 2021, remembering that the announced decision restored the self-confidence and faith of a broken nation in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-12-8	Thank you, Mr. Secretary Tamás Vargha. At the same time, Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-12-12-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yesterday we published a rather long list, which, unfortunately, was not a complete list, as there will be much more people to be held accountable for corruption in the current governing parties, but it was also a rather long list, and we promised that if we came to the government, these people would not be prevented from being held accountable and they would not be able to avoid it. However, it is very important that a responsible party should not only promise that these people will be punished, but also that a responsible party should promise and guarantee that in the next cycle this absolutely amazing process, which is the biggest series of thefts in Hungarian history, will be hindered. Corruption, we know well, cannot be eliminated, but it can be curbed. The tools of these things will not be as spectacular as when a politician goes to prison, but they are also very important. We are talking about a lot of minor legislative changes, a lot of laws that are small and not spectacular, which the next government will do. I've already submitted a package of laws, most of these measures, a lot of them in a package of laws, but unfortunately, the Justice Committee wiped them out almost without debate. It appeared that the Members had not read it and voted it down. We're gonna bring him in today for a vote, but I don't have much doubt that the governing parties are gonna vote this out. Although if they say that there is zero tolerance against corruption, I do not understand why these measures should be voted down. They could have taken it. The legislative package does not contain all the important measures, but it contains most of the most important measures, and I would like to read some of them. And obviously there will be an answer, and I would very much like the replyer to respond specifically to why the government does not want to vote in favour of these package of proposals. One of the elements is lobbying regulation. There is a concept that is a lobby, which is not from the devil, although it creates particularly negative ideas in Hungary, because this is all happening in Hungary in the dark. We're going to present a story this week on the corruption info about what a member of the government got for submitting a law. The lobby is one of the most dangerous parts of corruption when it happens in the dark and invisible. There have been regulations in Hungary, there have been laws about this, but Fidesz has among the first to abolish the law on lobby regulation. There was no good law, there was little, and much more stringent and extended measures will have to be taken, and this is included in my anti-corruption package. It is very important that public contracts should be made public immediately and fully. That's not what's happening right now. Even if they put up contracts, it's the technique of not putting up their annexes. In the contract there is practically a number and who and what they were contracted to, but from which you can see exactly what they bought, for how much money, it is hidden in the annexes and the annexes are not published. But in the same way, it is proposed that the whole process should be made public, starting from the tender documents, from the very beginning, so that when an investment is made, we can see the entire chain of subcontractors, see who the contractors were. All this has to be published. It does require some extra work, but it can't be saved. It is extremely important and one of the fundamental measures in this package is the prohibition of state propaganda. Today's Hungarian corruption, one of the most important areas of government corruption, is the propaganda machine on which billions and tens of billions are spent completely unnecessarily. It is clear that Hungarian citizens did not give them the money to propagate themselves from it, or they are trying to harass the Hungarian people. It is extremely important to clarify and tighten the rules on conflicts of interest. At the moment, when one of Simonka's family wins a European money and another member of her family makes a melon tasting, it will not automatically be illegal, although I think it is still illegal. You could list these points. I would very much ask the pro-government representatives that if there really is zero tolerance, then they should vote for it, because there is no obstacle to that. Thank you very much.
u2017-12-12-10	Thank you, Congressman Ákos Hadházy. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Károly Kontra will respond.
u2017-12-12-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The fight against corruption is in our common interest, so now Hungary has one of the strictest public procurement laws in Europe, which is why the government has suppressed VAT fraud, which is why the EU application system has been transformed, so it is required that every company, every company that receives a mandate from the state, must have a transparent ownership structure. I would like to tell you, honourable Member, that this was not the case before 2010, and it was not possible to know who would receive a state order then. I would also like to say that from 2014, the fight against corruption, in which the government announced zero tolerance already in 2010, has been under the control of the Ministry of Interior. For years, the police have been implementing automated decision-making in the case of individual traffic offences, and the electronic road traffic control system for trucks has been introduced, which has been a significant step in reducing VAT fraud. I would like to provide an additional example of e-administration when the State, municipality, budgetary authority, prosecutor, notary, public body, other administrative authority acting as a client, and the legal representative of the client and the economic entities are obliged to carry out e-administration in the cases provided for by law. It was a very important step in the fight against corruption, when, in 2010, we presented to Parliament, on the basis of one of our first decisions, the National Defence Service Act, which was adopted and supported by the pro-government factions, and the opposition factions did not support it. This organisation, the National Defence Service, as an independent police body, meets the complex professional and social needs of effective detection, efficiency, credible communication and clean-up protection. I would like to draw attention to the national anti-corruption programme. The programme is a medium-term policy strategy covering the years 2015-18 in the fight against corruption, extending the corruption prevention programme. [[8.30]] Honourable Congressman, Not so long ago, you were here in the Parliament building trying to take a stand in the case of ongoing public procurement for a bidder. I think that it is not for Members to represent economic matters, that the representation of the private economic interests of a company is not for the Member of Parliament. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Criminal Code is 300. §2 of the Act regulates the failure to report corruption offences in a separate legal case. The Member of Parliament, as an official, has an increased responsibility in this regard. Honourable Congressman, If you are aware of a specific corruption crime, I suggest you file a complaint. I believe that this will also help you to be serious about what you are saying, honourable Member. To sum up, I can say that our government is doing everything it can to ensure zero tolerance announced in 2010. Our goal remains to make Hungary one of the least corrupt countries in the world. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy applauds.]] Thank you very much, Congressman, I'm glad you feel the same way. To do this, we must always do more tomorrow than we did today or yesterday. The government is determined to do so, and I trust that the results of this will be felt by Hungarian society. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy applauds for a long time.]]
u2017-12-12-12	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Németh, President of the Commission, also applied for a speech before the agenda. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman Zsolt Németh.
u2017-12-12-13	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. There have been two important diplomatic events in Hungary last week. One is that the European Parliament's legal committee has put Hungary on the agenda and the other is that the Venice Commission has adopted its position on the Ukrainian education law. With regard to the legal committee, I would like to stress that nothing new has happened here at this committee meeting. At the most, it turned out that Hungary will be a dictatorship until Hungary becomes an immigrant country, that is what we have learned. As we become an immigrant country, Hungary will be an excellent democracy. On the other hand, I think that the resolution of the Venice Commission is extremely important and innovative, because this organisation has stood up for the rights of Hungarians in Transcarpathia, and a very important, effective, new diplomatic tool has been created in the fight for Hungarian education in Transcarpathia. I believe that a new chapter is beginning in this fight, and in any case the adoption of this resolution is a diplomatic victory, which can be regarded as the joint success of the entire Hungarian Parliament, since this fight started three months ago. What is the quick and professional report of the Venice Commission, which I would like to welcome from Hungary? Contains serious findings. Firstly, the resolution, the recommendation, makes it clear that Ukraine is seriously violating the acquired rights of minorities, thereby endangering the Hungarian education system. This procedure of Ukraine is contrary to the internal and international legal and obligation criteria, and therefore the Venice Commission declares in general that Article 7 of this ominous article, which is about minority education, must be amended by Ukraine. That is stated in this report. I think that in itself is the most important aspect of this resolution. This resolution also states that Ukraine has failed to reach an agreement with the parties concerned. As a result, Ukraine is increasingly in a step-by-step situation, Ukraine is gradually being isolated in the international space. Think of the clear statement of the Eastern Partnership or the discussions of the OSCE or NATO Foreign Minister meeting in recent days. So clearly the ball is bouncing in the square of Ukraine. The Transcarpathian Hungarians have made it clear that they are ready to make proposals for negotiations. I think it is also time to make it clear and clear to everyone that Hungary has been open to negotiations so far, and will be open to negotiations in the coming period. At the same time, these negotiations must take into account the extremely important resolution adopted by the Eastern Partnership Summit two weeks ago, which says that the Venice Commission's recommendation, which was not yet made available, was made public yesterday, and that Ukraine must fully implement it. The document of an EU summit is rarely so clear: the recommendations of the Venice Commission must be fully implemented by Ukraine. I believe that the result of this series of negotiations should be that the Hungarian education system in Transcarpathia should not be undermined. Of course, there will be other elements of such an agreement, but the fact that the existing Hungarian education system cannot be undermined must be an essential part of this agreement. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-12-14	Thank you very much, President Zsolt Németh, Member. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Levente Magyar responds to what has been said.
u2017-12-12-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Thank you very much for raising these questions, because on the agenda of Hungarian diplomacy, I think there is no more important and up-to-date issue than to fully protect the rights of Hungarians across the border. I am proud to say that this pride is not only for the government but also for the Hungarian Parliament, it is for the whole country that we have managed to defend the rights of Hungarians beyond the borders, in this case the Ukrainian government, the entire Ukrainian political system, against the attack of Ukrainian legislation. After all, we cannot interpret this other way than that minority Hungarians were attacked in Transcarpathia. After all, a provision has been put into effect, the Ukrainian legislation has decided in a sense that would have put the Hungarian minority rights back into an unimaginable depth in Transcarpathia, if Hungary had not opposed this decision. I am proud to report, and once again, on behalf of the whole nation, that I do not remember an international issue concerning minority affairs, the rights of Hungarian minorities across borders, which has managed to obtain such international acceptance, support and support from international political public in recent years, and even risk it in recent decades. The fact that Hungarian diplomacy and once again, with the support of the National Assembly... - we must not forget that as soon as the ominous law came into force, the Hungarian Parliament stood up against it with a complete consensus and condemned the Ukrainian move in a resolution. So the success of the entire Hungarian political system is that we are here. [[8.40]] We have managed to raise this issue into the international political debate and to gain support from important international actors such as the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Let us not forget the words of the High Commissioner for Minority about the clear condemnation of the law, the stand of Austria, which has given the OSCE Presidency, the clear stand of the Council of Europe, the clear position of the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, and the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which has condemned Ukraine to an enormous extent on the grounds of Article 7 of the law, which discriminates against minorities. Let us not forget that we have managed to include this issue in the UN, and the UN Human Rights Committee has issued a resolution on the law according to the Hungarian interpretation. And most importantly, honourable Member, honourable House, we have successfully raised this issue to the European Union. Several forums were opened in this Hungarian perspective. The President of the European Parliament made a letter to the President of Ukraine expressing his concern and calling on the Ukrainian party to settle this issue with immediate effect, which is not in line with European standards. Let us not forget that a few days ago, the Head of the European Union High Commissioner for Foreign Affairs, Federica Mogherini, made it quite clear and said to the Ukrainian Prime Minister that the law must be touched, because it is not in line with the international legal regime that Ukraine and the European Union have developed. I would also like to refer to what the Member has said, and the final document of the Eastern Partnership Summit also states with unusual clarity. And most importantly, because most of the criticisms were received from this direction, NATO itself states in a document that was previously signed with Ukraine, namely in the framework of the NATO-Ukraine Council, that it is not possible to withdraw from the level of rights acquired and that the rules applicable to them should be established in consultation with minorities. All these diplomatic efforts have been crowned by the resolution published by the Venice Commission in the days, which is also in line with the Hungarian opinion on the issue, since this resolution clearly states that Article 7 must be addressed, because according to the Venice Commission, the amendment of Article 7 of the law and its replacement with a provision that leads to a more balanced and clearer wording can be an appropriate solution to remedy criticism. I think we couldn't have done more than that. This is also a very nice result. Of course, there is still a very serious process of work to be done, because it must be understood to the Ukrainians that, if they do not comply with this guidance, Hungary will continue to maintain its position and we will block Ukraine's approach to the EU and NATO. We hope this does not have to happen, because Ukraine has repeatedly stated that it wants to take this path, and it is a prerequisite for it to adapt to the standards previously agreed. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-12-12-16	Thank you, Secretary of State, Magyar Levente. Dear Parliament, János Volner, Head of the Jobbik Group, Member of the European Parliament also applied for a pre-meeting speech:. The State Audit Office in the service of Fidesz? It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2017-12-12-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2010, when Viktor Orbán and his government came to power, the organized and conscious eradication of democracy began in Hungary. This was not a one-time step, we see a whole process unfolding. Fidesz has taken over all the supposedly independent institutions, authorities, backup institutions, placed its own people everywhere, and we can see Viktor Orbán and Fidesz everywhere. He sent his own people to the Constitutional Court; the State Audit Office was led by an ex-fidesz Member of Parliament; the National Court of Justice is led by the wife of a Fidesz MEP; the media authority has only had Fidesz delegates; the Hungarian National Bank has also taken over control with György Fidesz Matolcsy; the Fidesz delegate to the head of the Hungarian Competition Authority. There was no consensus, no compromise effort in these cases. Fidesz has completely dominated the entire Hungarian state administration, a democratic institutional system consisting of all and, in principle, independent institutions. At the same time, it is interesting to observe who are now the cornerstones of the economy, who are the moral cornerstones that are guiding the current government. Arthur Finkelstein's political ideas, campaigning, and dirtiest views were those that influenced the operation of the Viktor Orbáns during the current term. Árpád Habony was another moral cornerstone of your operation - congratulations. Andy Vajna, who is constantly being transferred to billions by the regular transcription of the casino law; Lőrinc Mészáros, Viktor Orbán's great friend - they are all media owners, by the way - Lőrinc Mészáros is one of these people. István Garancsi Orbán is another great friend of Viktor Orbán. And then here are the smaller ones, who also bought and bulldozed the independent media that remained on their feet: Mária Schmidt, András Tombor and the others. In this situation, Jobbik had no choice but to turn to the giant poster market beyond the otherwise strong presence in social media, since after several months we can hardly trust that he will be invited to the public television again. There, by the way - it is very interesting, and I look forward to the Minister of State's specific reply - Zoltán Lomnici is invited as an invited guest alone more than all opposition parties combined. In this, I ask the Secretary of State's opinion, what is your idea of this? It is also worth mentioning that when Jobbik will have no choice but to turn to the poster market so that it can appear in a forum other than social media, what have we seen in this area? We have seen that, on the one hand, there is a government media dumping, for example, only a budget above the Brexit campaign has been spent exclusively in the quota vote - once again, over the Brexit campaign - government players, and even independent non-government-related billboard companies, these platforms were available, and Jobbik has concluded contracts with these companies and very privately to show their own political ideas. The Government has rewritten the laws on this issue several times by a half parliamentary majority, although otherwise the Party Finance Act would have required a two-thirds parliamentary mandate. He has made sure that the State Audit Office is under his control, and he has attempted with the State Audit Office to financially destroy Jobbik with a fine of over HUF 660 million. My dear gentlemen. What's with the communist tempo? ! Only the total amount is included in the decision of the State Audit Office. They didn't even bother, just like they did in the conceptual trials of the 1950s to explain how this number came out. What is this outrageous procedure that is taking place here, and how long will Viktor Orbán and his government continue their journey to Putin? [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-12-12-18	Thank you, Mr. János Volner. On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, responds to what has been said.
u2017-12-12-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Depending on yesterday, today's speech was a little interesting, as I was here myself in the Chamber when you personally threatened the President of the Independent State Audit Office. [[Delight and murmur from Jobbik's benches. Interviews from the same place, including István Szávay: What have we done? Dr. László György Lukács: Report, Mr. Secretary of State. The Attorney General was here. He didn't press charges.]] This is an unprecedented scandal in the history of Hungarian democracy, which thins its partner. [[Constant interruptions from Jobbik's benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] He says a lot about your attitude about how you imagine the state's operation. The other -- it's possible that this will also happen, it's obvious, and then we'll see if they'll maintain these threatening words. As to the substance of the problem, he did mention the great posters that their master had made available to them during the spring. [[8.50]] According to their own declaration, they received these surfaces at a unit price of HUF 6500 for 3 months, for HUF 105 million. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: You got it cheaper than that!]] You don't have to be a mathematician. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] that if, at the same time, LMP received the same posters for 80,000 forints a month, [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: How can you lie like that?]] So, technically, you've been receiving illegal party funding. If we calculate this, I don't think the HUF 331 million issued by the State Audit Office would be a much more serious punishment for you, so you're busted. This is very difficult to bear probably, and it has a very bad taste in the mouth, but to make this a democracy problem, to introduce a new party financing law, when virtually every party in Parliament receives adequate funding when they can receive independent funding for the elections...! If you are not such cowards as Solymár, and you will be nominated in every constituency, you will receive HUF 800 million in support of the 2018 campaign. If this is not enough for you, then there are probably very serious problems there, so either the money will disappear there - just like in their various companies that have done in a company cemetery - or there are disturbances that we may have experienced during the spring, when various questions have been asked to party president Gábor Vona, and he does not seem to have any numbers on how his party works. I ask you, how can you be a candidate for prime minister who can't run a party because you don't know what's going on? Gábor Szabó always directs everyone to the party director - who also does not disclose data. In the same way, the State Court of Auditors did not provide the data. You told me yesterday that the deadline was up, and then they couldn't fix it. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's a lie! István Szávay: Stop lying!]] electronically, the data which should have been recorded within the time limit; and you are still concerned about the fact that the State Audit Office finds that you are not cooperating. In practice, the prosecutor's investigation was then carried out, and the NAV investigation is also being carried out, since if they obtain surfaces at such dumping or dumping prices almost free of charge, it also raises suspicion of VAT fraud. Of course, I know there are experts sitting among you in the matter of VAT who have sunk companies with practically tens of millions of dollars in debt, but I do not think that this can be done at party level or at the level of democratic parties. It is also an interesting phenomenon that when you ask a member of the party, or a representative in this corridor, everyone says that you are not competent, you do not have any data. I ask you how you work, if you don't know how many posters you buy, how much you pay for a poster, who you buy them from, and then you get involved in various tricks that you collect from individuals or donations - and then it's possible that your friend will help you out with small items below 500,000 forints in this case? Overall, the whole case we're talking about can be traced back to your behavior. I suggest you read the relevant sections of the party law. [[István Szávay: Teach me, master!]] it says what is forbidden party funding. You're in this condition. Of course, they're aggressively attacking to cover this up, but I can offer you to study the legislation, settle your finances, and create transparency, so you don't have to deal with these problems. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. István Szávay applauds.]]
u2017-12-12-20	Thank you, Secretary of State, Pál Völner. Dear Parliament, A joint debate on the European Parliament's decision to implement the Soros Plan follows in an exceptional procedure. Presentation submitted by Gergely Gulyás, György Balla, István Hollik, István Németh Szilárd, Róbert Répássy, Fidesz MEPs H/18817. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, In the debate, I give the floor first to István Németh Szilárd, the author of the bill. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-12-12-21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, As Mr President has pointed out, we are presenting a proposal for a parliamentary decision, because we must present it, precisely for the reason that it is also in its title, because at its plenary session on 16 November 2017, the European Parliament adopted 390 yes, 175 no and 44 abstentions, a very dangerous position for both Hungary, Europe and the community of the European Union, regardless of the rights defined by the European Union, regardless of the fundamental rights defined by the European Union. I don't know if the people who read this address were able to decipher it. This is the case in English: a proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the conditions and procedural rules for determining the Member State responsible for examining an application for international protection lodged by a third-country national or a stateless person in one of the Member States. Now, it's not easy to figure out what this is about, but when we look into this proposal and look at its elements, we see that this is practically the Soros plan. So what we have been arguing about here, about which the opposition groups against me said unanimously for the first time that there was no such thing, and then they said that if there is, it is not as we say, if there is, then we should not ask the Hungarian people about it in a national consultation. Well, it is here before us, and this is already a European Parliament resolution, which is already a second step in the European legislative process, since it was preceded by a month earlier, in October by the so-called LIBE Committee, which is the Committee on Home Affairs, Justice and Citizenship, a very important and very influential committee for the European Parliament, they have already defined this. What was presented to the Parliamentary Assembly, before the plenary session, was adopted at one and the same time by the plenary session, and in circumstances where they did not even want to vote on it. It is only thanks to the Fidesz MEPs that they even asked the Members of Parliament about how this should go on, and it is clear that the Soros fraction of 226 has done its job here, and voted in favour of this extremely dangerous resolution without any thought and any other aversion. What's in this resolution? In this decision, they clearly state the role of the mandatory quota in terms of immigration, as described by George Soros, that 1 to 1.5 million people per year, mostly from Muslim countries - because there is this reserve on which immigration is based - must be allowed into Europe, and if they come in, they must be distributed by an upper limit, i.e. without an upper limit, without a time limit, i.e. on the basis of a mechanism that is constantly applicable and must be applied to all 27 Member States. This is one of the things that is extremely dangerous to the country and extremely dangerous to Europe, because in this distribution it is not only that they can distribute terrorists, but also make the development of so-called parallel societies practically binding on Europe as a whole, a mixed population, mixed ethnicity, mixed religion and the creation of a mixed culture. This includes, directly, the sentence that each Member practically does not have a party standing, so whether in Soros's team, we are looking at members of the People's Party, whether liberal or communist or green, the voices of those who do not want to do so must be subject to sanctions. Sanctions are twofold: one of the sanctions is to take away the money that is due as a Member State of the European Union, and this is about catching up money or not to give God, it's about land-based subsidies. [[9.00]] So to cut them off completely, to transform them, to take them away from these funds in some kind of social gown, to create new funds, and then to reward those who are on the side of immigration, to create immigrant countries and, on the other hand, to create concrete and direct punishment. Everyone knows the number that every one of them didn't accept us, they wanted to pin us on, and the country would have to pay 78 million forints for an immigrant who didn't take us in. Then there are other suggestions that are absolutely amazing. They are absolutely amazing: in contrast to the Geneva Convention, the Schengen Convention and the current Dublin agreement, they say that everyone who came in here can determine which country they want to live in. This is not what the asylum conventions are about, but it is in the first safe country that we need to establish who is the refugee, and he must remain there as long as those negative circumstances persist, that persecution, the deprivation of rights that made him flee his country. In fact, he says that they can do so in groups of 30 people. 30 people come together and decide whether they want to go to Hungary, Estonia or not, God, to Germany. Family reunion. Family reunification is also amazing, it has nothing to do with European family law, it has nothing to do with Hungarian family law. On the basis of this decision, you could tell anyone who your father, mother, brother-in-law, brother-in-law, I don't know what you have, whether you are a sideline or a straight line family member, and these families can then be united, you can bring all the family members into Europe. Individual researchers and national security agencies say that even 10-15 members of the family can arrive after one person, even 20 members of the family. There is a third element of George Soros's ear, which is most likely to sound good to the Hungarian opposition and to Hungarian disguise civilians in any way: if there is a civil society organisation, let us call them more fake NGOs, Soros organisations, this is the introduction of so-called sponsorship, which aims to help the asylum seeker, then they can participate in the distribution of these, and therefore, of course, they must be supported and paid. Well, it's quite clear what's going on in this resolution. This decision goes against not only the interests of Hungary, but also the sovereignty of Hungary, but also the sovereignty of all nation states. It is also contrary to the Dublin III system currently in force and to the Lisbon Treaty itself, as the Lisbon Treaty states that asylum must be resolved at Community level, and that the European Union must not only resolve international rules at Community level, but that immigration is a matter of national and national competence. These two are completely shattered, obviously in order to challenge the sovereignty of the nation states on this very important issue. Even because if the pro-immigrants put the funds on immigration and look at these numbers - I am now talking about completed asylum procedures in the European Union - then refugees account for one-and-a-half percent of all immigrants - not by mistake, one-and-a-half percent - while economic immigrants, and now, let's not say, the more dangerous category, but economic immigrants, illegal immigrants, who flooded the European continent in 2015, account for one-and-a-half million people and 98,5 percent of them. Well, that's the reason they want to combine refugee and illegal immigrants. I would also like to legitimise illegal immigrants in some form, as they focus on immigration. These immigrants are needed in Western Europe - justified by all economic and demographic reasons. On the other hand, this proposal for a decision undermines in its entirety the guarantee of territorial integrity, public order, public security and the guarantee of national security under the Lisbon Treaty, which is a national competence of the Member States. He's basically trying to take them all away. Perhaps the fellow Members will remember the debate that took place in the National Security Committee, and then, of course, this debate has been removed from the committee to the press about how we can now interpret the establishment of the European National Security Organisation. Well, that's how we interpret it; it's a withdrawal of national authority. To raise all this... - and the ultimate aim of this is obvious, the creation of the European United States and the implementation of the Soros Plan, which, once again, focuses on the total support and excitation of illegal immigration. But how did we get to this point that this resolution was even made? In 2015 the peak was practically reached in the early 10s by the flow of illegal immigrants to Europe. There were those entrance routes. Unfortunately, this has affected us, not a little, but a lot, as nearly half a million people arrived on the Western Balkans route. In Hungary, 400,000 people ran through, and there was nothing we could do. At the time, we were still standing there to resolve this at European Union level, but the European Union refused to speak to us at all in 2015. Here in Parliament, decisions were made. The decision on the building of the fence was made, the decision was made to involve the Hungarian Defence Forces in border guard tasks, the decision was made to tighten the rules that guarantee immigration and the acquisition of citizenship in Hungary. This is how we managed to stop this enormous pressure, so we managed to stop this huge crowd from continuing to come to Europe on the Western Balkans route. However, further roads have remained open, and the main course of immigration has been completely shifted to the Mediterranean. Italy, Greece, was waiting for immigrants with open doors, did not fulfil their obligations under the Schengen Treaty, and thought that if they did not do so, they would receive special money from Brussels. Well, that happened. However, since there is already enough pressure there, in August 2015 they decided to establish a two-year programme on compulsory distribution at the Council of Home Ministers in September. That was the 120,000 quota. Hungary resisted them. We know the story. We've gone to court. In the meantime, the usual comedy started, the usual procedure against Hungary, which we had already experienced during the reduction of the rent, immediately became a problem with Hungarian democracy, and immediately Hungary was called for a hearing at different levels. We're past that now. Last week, the Minister of Foreign Affairs represented Hungary at the hearing with the LIBE Committee. No one should have any doubt that this is an autodafére and the report will be similar to the Taveres report, obviously, because we dared to oppose the issue of immigration in the main line. For some reason, the three infringement proceedings against us in relation to the Higher Education Act were launched last week. I am only stopping for a moment because everyone knows that this is not about the law on higher education and the situation of Hungarian higher education. It's nothing but the Soros University, one [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] University of Soros. That is why we have this resolution proposal before us, Honourable Parliament. I ask all the factions of the Parliament, all the members of the Parliament, to give their opinion by voting [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and by commenting on whether to accept the Soros plan or resist the Soros plan. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] [[9.10]]
u2017-12-12-22	Thank you very much for the presentation of President István Németh, Member. On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tuzson Bence.
u2017-12-12-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I think we are talking about a very important parliamentary decision, because the European Union Parliament has taken a step by adopting this proposal for a resolution, the proposal for compulsory resettlement, which includes several elements of the Soros Plan. Here, basically, as the Member said, we are talking about a sovereignty issue, about the extent to which the European Union, the European Parliament and Brussels have competence, where the border is, and what is at national level. We are thinking, however, that the European Union is basically on its feet, so that nations make their decisions, and that the decisions of the nations ultimately bring together European decision-making, the European decision-making mechanism. Accordingly, it is clear that the issue of immigration, which is a national competence under the European Statute, must remain a national competence. This competence, i.e. this overstepping which the European Parliament is taking by its decision, would indeed rewrite the history of the European Union, rewrite the structure of the European Union, so that the central units of the European Union and its central decision-making bodies take their decisions, and in this connection would only have an executive role for the nations. The fact that the implementation of the Soros plan has been started in this way by Parliament is indicative to everyone, is indicative, because this process is probably not going to stop here. There are several points to this decision while it becomes a live enforceable decision, but at these points it is necessary to try to prevent the implementation of this plan. Since the European Parliament has taken the decision, it is important that the Hungarian Parliament also responds to this question and strongly rejects the Soros plan, the implementation of the Soros plan, and the decision of the European Parliament in this process. This decision would also introduce a mandatory permanent resettlement system in the European Union, which would be a step change, as it would extend the rules so far, so it would mean more to immigrants, refugees than we have understood so far, since it would allow a much wider circle of family reunification to be introduced and put Hungary in the cross-section. The reason I'm saying this is because the countries that have not yet adopted immigrants have an advantage. He would like to participate, and this is in any case contrary to Hungarian interests, and I think that we Hungarians should raise our voice. He must also raise his voice to the Hungarian Parliament, as 2 million 332 thousand 755 people have already done in Hungary, who have taken a stand in the national consultation on the Soros plan, and on the basis of the data of the process so far, the vast majority of them have taken a position that the Soros plan must be rejected, so the compulsory resettlement system must also be rejected. Indeed, it is an important element, as the Member noted, of the role of NGOs in this resolution, as it would also favour those countries where there are NGOs, and would even support NGOs to participate in this resettlement process, and those countries that do not participate in the compulsory resettlement scheme would be punished by this proposal for a resolution. Indeed, all such provisions are contrary to the interests of the Hungarian people, and they are contrary to the interests of Hungary, so it is very important that all Members of Parliament present their views here in the Parliament. Members of the European Parliament have already done so in the European Parliament. It is unfortunate that the EU representatives of the Hungarian left voted in favour of this proposal for a resolution, for example Tibor Szanyi, Péter Niedermüller or Benedek Jávor. Accordingly, it is high time that the Hungarian left, whose representatives are unfortunately not here in Parliament, did not listen to or participate in this debate, took a position on this fundamental issue, which concerns immigration and the Soros plan, whether they want to protect Hungary, whether we want to protect this country in the long run, because if immigration is implemented, there will be a mandatory resettlement quota, the consequence of which is that Hungary can change permanently, not for a year or two, not for five to ten years, but for up to 100 to 200 years or forever. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-12-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman László Salacz, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee.
u2017-12-12-25	Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee on 11 December is the House Rule 62. H/18817 concerning the implementation of the European Parliament's decision on the implementation of the Soros Plan The Committee submitted a report with 25 votes in favour and a unanimous decision, in view of the fact that the Legislative Committee has not expressed an intention to amend it. If the proposal for a resolution is voted, the Hungarian Parliament refuses to speed up the influx of immigrants and to transfer them to a group. It also rejects Brussels' delegation of powers to Soros organisations in support of immigration in order to participate in the import and distribution of immigrants, and we also say no to force the admission of immigrants by punishing Member States. All in all, I can say that we expect the European Union to respect Hungary's sovereignty and the will of the Hungarian people to reject the compulsory quota. Ladies and gentlemen, I trust that a unanimous decision will also be taken in the course of today's decision, to which I ask for your support. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-12-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a 15-minute time frame per group of representatives. First, I give the floor to Member Robert Répássy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-12-12-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Our group supports the adoption of the parliamentary resolution proposal. When Members of Parliament vote today, they also decide on this. I would like to read some quotes from the proposal for a parliamentary decision that lies before us: the Hungarian Parliament refuses to launch permanent resettlement and compulsory distribution at the expense of European nations. Permanent import and distribution of immigrants on the basis of a compulsory quota would irreversibly change Europe's future and culture. The Hungarian Parliament refuses to speed up the influx of immigrants and to transfer them to the group. The Hungarian Parliament refuses to force the admission of immigrants by punishing the Member States. The Hungarian Parliament expects the European Union to respect Hungary's sovereignty and the Hungarian people's will to reject the compulsory resettlement quota in a referendum. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[9.20]] Dear House, So far, the quote is from the parliamentary resolution proposal that lies before us. The reasons for this include what was said by Szilárd Németh, who stated that the European Parliament adopted a decision at its meeting on 16 November 2017 which was formally called the opinion on the Dublin reform, in fact, the implementation of a plan as described by my fellow Member. The European Parliament's decision contains not only positions that will be implemented later, but also a political statement is the decision of the European Parliament, as the European Parliament has given its own negotiators a position on the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council and a mandate. So we are talking about a political declaration, and I believe that there is nothing more effective in the hands of the Hungarian Parliament than the Hungarian Parliament's response to this decision of the European Parliament. It is sad indeed that the representatives of parties who voted in favour of this resolution in the European Parliament do not participate in the debate today. We are still looking forward to your vote this afternoon, but the so-called left-wing opposition is not interested in defending Hungary. In the decision of the European Parliament, we must oppose a clear resolution, a clear task and an obligation that states that the Hungarian Parliament rejects any pressure that would restrict our sovereignty, including the sovereignty of Hungary and the sovereignty of the Hungarian Parliament. We do not accept that decisions are made for us that fall within the competence of the Hungarian Parliament. We do not accept that they are blackmailing Hungary if the Hungarian Parliament decides otherwise on these matters. We are well aware of the history, and in the past, the Hungarian Parliament has made several decisions, laws, decisions, and even political resolutions, which made it clear that the Hungarian Parliament has not given up its right to determine who the Hungarian population wants to live with in Hungary. The Hungarian Parliament has never given up on this, and we do not interpret it as exercising this competence together with the European Union. After all, according to our Fundamental Law, the Hungarian State has never given up its sovereignty, exercising some of its sovereignty powers together with the European institutions, the European Parliament or the European Council. So we want to take away powers from the European Parliament or even European bureaucracy, which we have never given up on. And we also find it immoral and outrageous that any fellow human being, whether a person from third countries or not, should not be treated as a third country, should not be treated as a group of third-country nationals, should be assigned a forced residence or treated as if they had been sentenced to deportation. It is simply unacceptable for the institutions of the European Union to want to determine where to live. Of course, Hungary has not given up asylum agreements, Hungary accepts asylum seekers according to European order and Hungarian law, those who are truly entitled to refugee status are protected by Hungary, but those who are not entitled to refugee status, we want to decide for ourselves, and we are not waiting for the decision of the institutions of the European Union to live. If Hungary decides to provide asylum seekers with shelter, but those who want to emigrate to Europe or Hungary for economic reasons are not welcome, or at least choose who we want to live with, I think that is the natural self-defense of every country, and it cannot be said that this is some kind of anti-human rights attitude. So, Honourable House, in addition to laying down certain principles, certain values, if you like, declarations by the Parliament with the adoption of the resolution, the Hungarian Parliament calls on the Government of Hungary not to give in to the pressure of the European Parliament and EU bureaucracy and to defend our country's guaranteed rights in basic treaties. So it is very important that we are on the ground of the Treaties, we are on the ground of the Treaties establishing the European Union, and we believe that what is happening in this case is not a violation of the Treaties. So, in fact, we respect EU law and not those who want to force EU Member States to adopt certain decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, At yesterday's preliminary hearing, when the Legislative Committee discussed this proposal for a resolution, certain amendments were made. I would like to state in advance our position on what we think about this. The Parliamentary Group of Jobbik, although largely in agreement with the parliamentary resolution proposal, intends to make two amendments. One issue is the issue of so-called settlement bonds, and the other question, oddly enough, is the name of the coordinated plan on which the European Parliament is acting. On the first issue, on settlement bonds, we have a clear position and it is clear that the decision of the European Parliament does not address the issue of settlement bonds and is therefore pointless to react to it in this decision. So, let's just say, this is an inappropriate amendment proposal, an unrelated amendment to the object is a proposal for Jobbik. We ask Jobbik to review its position, not the position it takes on the settlement bonds, but its position as to whether it is in this decision or not. We believe that the decision is clear and round and responds to a decision adopted by the European Parliament at its meeting on 16 November. On the other hand, what we call this particular plan. I think we agree on that, and I see that Jobbik's proposals also show that it is a matter of planning. So they also accept that some plan, some logic, is going along these steps. Now it's just a question of who's naming this plan. I think it may not be a matter of prestige for Jobbik to protect George Soros by getting his name out of this resolution. I would ask that the right-wingers return to the position they had previously given, not so harshly against György Soros, I would not ask them for such a harsh position, but that this should not at least be the obstacle to voting in favour of the parliamentary resolution. Accept that if the majority of Parliament wants to call this plan its name, they want to call it what it is and, please, do not defend George Soros's personal rights by not appearing in such a resolution. Dear House, I have therefore put forward how we stand on the amendment proposals, and I ask with respect that, together with the support of my group, the entire Parliament support this parliamentary resolution. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-12-28	Thank you very much, Congressman Répássy Róbert. On behalf of the MSZP Group, Mr Zsolt Molnár has applied, but he is not in the Chamber. [[György Balla: He's not here and nobody's here!]] I therefore give the floor to Congressman István Hollik [[Dr. Gábor Staudt intervenes.]] Head speaker for the KDNP Group.
u2017-12-12-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am also very sorry that, in this important case, we do not know what the Hungarian Left, the Hungarian Socialist Party, has to say, although we strongly suspect that, but since they are not here in the debate, we cannot hear it from their mouth. Indeed, if we look at why this parliamentary decision was taken, then, as my fellow Member, Szilárd Németh said, we must go back to 16 November, because it is a clear turning point in the immigration policy of the European Union. After all, at that time the European Parliament adopted a decision which sets out a clear direction, and it is quite clear that the European Parliament is voting in favour of a quota without cap and legal immigration. This resolution, of course, also slaps the opposition parties who have always done nothing but deny the existence of the Soros plan and said that they will not implement the Soros plan either in the European Parliament or anywhere else, because it does not exist. That cannot be said after this decision of the European Parliament. Why not? Because the proposals described in the Soros plan are being implemented point by point in this proposal. There is a proposal in this proposal to set up a permanent distribution council that we call the Soros Executive Committee for a reason, because this is what György Soros described in the Soros plan. It will therefore take away Member States' powers, it will be deployed in Brussels, and this distribution council would be meant to operate the allocation mechanism without a cap that the European Parliament has decided on. He'd coordinate it, he'd control it, he'd control the distribution. [[9.30]] But there are also elements in this proposal that are clearly pointing in the direction that the European Parliament wants to facilitate immigration and speed up. This is what the group asylum application is all about, which is perhaps one of the most dangerous elements of the proposal, which would involve NGOs in the operation of the distribution mechanism, but this is also what the expansion of family reunification is about, which would now include not only the direct branch, but also the lateral kinship. If you basically look at the Muslim families that have typically come to Europe, you can see that if you extend them to side kinship, you can talk about thirty or even forty refugees with side relatives for one refugee. It can therefore be clearly said that the European Parliament voted after 16 November, and what makes it really dangerous is that, unfortunately, the European Commission shares George Soros's opinion, as Jean-Claude Juncker, the President of the European Commission, also gave faith in immigration. He said that he felt that immigration should be legalised in Europe. The biggest problem he's ever had is that immigration was illegal, if we make it legal, he thinks we're gonna fix all the trouble. So once again, we can say that the proposals of the various institutions of the European Union are in line with the plans of George Soros, which set out that one million immigrants should be deployed to Europe every year, this must be divided and that Member States that refuse to implement this should be punished. George Soros does all this because he believes in the utopia of open society, which no one has ever tried. But it is also certain that it describes in its book that the greatest obstacle to the utopia of open society is the nation state, national sovereignty, national borders, national culture and national traditions. To weaken this, to weaken it, to remove borders most effectively by immigration, because people with mixed cultures will be created if we move towards the European United States, otherwise they will be able to remove borders. And it is quite clear that this utopia, which no one has ever tried, contradicts not only common sense, but also the basic human nature, because we humans have an unquenchable desire to belong somewhere, which is what our national consciousness is all about. And that is the desire that György Soros wants to exterminate from us, by saying that from now on world citizens must be created, and that nation states, national culture, must be moved beyond, as he claims, this is XX. It's the root of all the problems of the century, which is a fatal big mistake. That is why, because he thinks so, he thought that Hungary and, for example, Poland, which stands very firmly for the concept of a Europe of nations, stands for national sovereignty and for the Christian culture of Europe, well, these nation states must be weakened. And how do you weaken it? We see that after the decision of the European Parliament and after the national consultation, the pressure started by György Soros has moved to the next speed step. We have seen that György Soros himself has personally declared a counter- campaign, verbally, in writing, in Brussels, in New York, in the international press and in the Hungarian press, which is perhaps the most outrageous thing, that the European institutions and their legal procedures are being openly used for political blackmail against Hungary. The hearing that took place last week, at which Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó represented Hungary, was about this. As Minister said after the hearing, he does not see the reason why this hearing had to be convened. Obviously, because it wasn't, it's only that Hungary refuses to accept the Soros plan. Or, if we look at the infringement procedures that were also launched against Hungary last week, the horse's foot also hangs out that this is actually about political blackmail. After all, what are these infringement proceedings about? For example, it is about Hungary's refusal to implement mandatory distribution and the EU's decision to do so. So the European Court of Justice itself said that this decision is acceptable to the European Union only because it is of a temporary nature and expires on 24 September. This date has, by definition, passed - this is one of them. The second is that no Member State other than Malta has complied with this EU decision. Why do they only open infringement proceedings against Hungary? I'm telling you again, the horse's foot is hanging out. Or there's the Civil Transparency Act. This is also being attacked, for example, by a Soros organization, a representative of the Helsinki Commission, at the hearing of the LIBE Committee, who lies that this law shows a great resemblance to the Russian law, when it is a lie which is, by the way, circumstantial. The Russian law and the Hungarian law are nothing like each other, and even the Venice Commission made a recommendation just after the adoption of the Russian law, these recommendations were taken into account in all respects by the Hungarian government and defined and drafted this civil transparency law, against which, interestingly, no civil society organisation financed from abroad is protesting in Hungary, only those financed by George Soros. There is the third infringement procedure, which is about the Hungarian law governing the operation of foreign universities, which says nothing else except that all foreign universities operating in Hungary must operate according to the same rules, and there can be no exception to that, by the way, György Soros University. For this reason, Hungary has been subject to infringement proceedings, with almost literally the same rules in place in the Czech Republic, but no infringement proceedings have been initiated in the Czech Republic. So it is quite obvious that hearings, infringement procedures are part of the pressure exercise of George Soros. We thought that Hungary should give a very strong answer to this, because this pressure is also getting stronger and stronger. Thank God, the Hungarian people, more than 2.3 million Hungarians, also gave a very strong response to these pressures when they participated in the national consultation and gave their opinion on the Soros plan. Thank you, by the way, to all citizens who have given their opinion. But we thought that, on the basis of the wishes of the people involved in the national consultation, the Parliament should also make its own decision. This is why we have decided to adopt a proposal for a parliamentary decision, in which we believe it is important to call on the Government of Hungary not to give in to the pressure of the European Parliament and EU bureaucracy, to defend the rights guaranteed by our country's treaty, to reject the Soros plan, and, which is very important to keep Hungary's citizens informed of the state of play of the implementation of the Soros plan and of the government's planned and ongoing measures to protect Hungary. I very much hope that, for example, despite the fact that the left and the LMP do not consider this matter to be so important, which clearly determines the future of Hungary for decades to come into this debate, I very much hope that the opposition parties will recognise that this goes beyond the day-to-day party political battles. Even if the campaign's coming, it's going beyond. I very much hope that this Parliamentary resolution proposal will be supported. The Christian Democratic People's Party, along with Fides, will, of course, support it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-12-12-30	Thank you, Congressman István Hollik. I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. [[9.40]]
u2017-12-12-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I listened with patience to the Fidesz KDNP speeches, the lead speakers. Yesterday, we had a Commission debate to prepare for Parliament's debate. There has been a lot of talk there, and I would like to add a few new elements, but basically I would like to underline a few thoughts that I have already said there. I think the Fidesz-KDNP is trying to make anyone who is susceptible to it believe a mission impossible. The purpose of this mission is to demonstrate that the entire opposition is pro-immigration. This is a difficult task, although you can say from the left, since you are not here in the debate. By the way, I don't know why they're not here. I'd really appreciate it if they could give us their opinion. Of course, if you don't respond, it's easy to guess what you might think. In the case of Jobbik, however, they are already having a much harder time, because all along, from the very beginning we have rejected all forms of immigration, supported fence building, supported the deployment of the army - remember, it was a two-thirds decision - we supported the military to be deployed at the borders. We have already said that when you have removed the independent border guard, that this is an extremely wrong decision, since neither the army nor the police can act with such efficiency, with the expertise of an independent border guard in order to protect borders, and the moment - we have also said so - will come when this border protection will be needed. He did, unfortunately, if we had not been right; you thought it was fiction at the time that an independent border guard could have legitimacy. Obviously, that's why they don't go back, and only the police and defense can act, so we don't have to admit that Jobbik was right. But let's put this aside. Thank God, you have also realized that action must be taken effectively; no matter why, but you have realised that effective measures must be taken to prevent immigration. But you have not stopped at this point, as every ordinary government must do: if there is a problem, it will act and move on to the problems that are also burning in the country. You are trying to make the subject of immigration a campaign theme, to make it seem that the entire opposition, the left, like Jobbik - because if you talk about the whole opposition, obviously everyone is involved in this - would be pro-immigration. As I said, they may have easier things to do with the left, although it may not have been so clear, but if they want the voters to believe that Jobbik is pro-immigration, even Árpád Habony and his little machine will be scarce. I must also say that the intention to bring immigrants into Hungary with the intention of resettlement has been achieved only on the basis of the Rogán plan. I listened to what Szilárd Németh said, and there was a lot of truth in it; he said that 10-15 people could come with an immigrant through family reunification, then or later. I think that might be true. But the same is true of settlement bonds! [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's right!]] If someone buys that bond, they can come with 10-15 people for family reunification, and the Hungarian bond regulation is so liberal - they don't really find it in Europe, look at it - that not only the small family, underage children, but everyone, adult children and grandparents can come with the same purpose of family reunification. So perhaps the number of people - estimated to be over 20 thousand at the moment - that you give them the right to reside could be much higher than that. I would add that towards the end of the construction, when these bonds were already half-priced, and with the condition that they would lose this amount, so they would not get it back with different bank constructions, if we look at this for their entire family, then these bonds were competitive with the amounts requested by the smugglers, and unfortunately this is not a joke at all. When the amendment to the basic law should have been adopted, you were trying to maintain the possibility of returning this settlement bond scheme, and you did not vote on this amendment many times, six to seven times in the Parliament. This is unfortunate, especially since it was in the other pan of the balance sheet, we asked that we not give the rich migrants the opportunity to emigrate to Hungary. Yesterday, at the ministerial hearing of Antal Rogán, I asked him twice, asking him to answer whether, if Fidesz-KDNP wins next year, they plan to return the settlement bonds, he did not answer this question twice. So we can take this as cash. But back to the resolution proposal. What is described in the resolution proposal is at least 95% true. You have constructed this in such a way that it contains a lot of true and eligible statements, but you have included some of the things that it is difficult to support with facts so that it can appear in a parliamentary resolution proposal, and you expected that this was their strategy, so that Jobbik might also reject it. Of course, we can see through such an easily transparent situation, and even though you wrote it as if you would be the only ones to support it, we will nevertheless support the proposal, because we are looking at the objective and agree with the aim of preventing immigration. But since you have already told me, my fellow Member, Mr Répássy, said that the reference to the settlement policy should not be included - one of our amendments concerned - because it is not in the decision of the European Parliament. That's true - but immigrants come or come in the program the same way! So if the goal is to keep all immigrants, rich migrants, poor migrants outside the borders of the country, then this could be included. But good, perhaps this desire on our part to give up the $165 billion deal so far and to continue it next year may be an excessive desire, especially from the opposition side, so let us put this amendment aside. The other amendment was that, although we agree with the situation, you say that when this European Parliament decision was taken, it was included in their official implementation of the Soros plan. They couldn't tell me where this was in the document that was adopted. István Hollik replied at the committee meeting that what György Soros said and what was done should be read together - I hope I quote correctly - and that is therefore the official implementation of it. My bad news is that just because A person and B say the same thing doesn't mean that one person gave the other instructions. Just because their opinions may be the same and these opinions are rejected does not mean that they are lucky to take someone out in a parliamentary resolution proposal. By the way, about George Soros, and about what he stands for, we have expressed our negative opinion. But I ask you, why isn't the Juncker plan included, for example? What the European Parliament wants is even worse than what we saw in the Soros studies! György Soros said that the European Union should support the Member States by HUF 9 million in order to help immigrants integrate, while, as said by Szilárd Németh, the EU plans have also shown earlier that Hungary should pay HUF 78 million to the Union in order to refuse to make the quota decision. [[9.50]] So the Juncker plan in this regard is even more harsh than the Soros plan. Of course, it's hard to distinguish between two apocalyptic versions, but a long list could be made here. We believe that it is legally more appropriate - that is why we tabled this amendment, but it was not accepted - if we set the goal and direction that we do not want immigration in Hungary, and whether it was planned and implemented by Soros, Juncker or Rogán, we reject it in the same way. We wanted this to be adopted more openly in a legal wording, in a legal declaration, in the sense that it applies to everyone. This is also true, because if you had at least been able to provide some evidence or at least reported George Soros or taken any criminal action, as we have done, then we would say that yes, you are effectively defending your country, and obviously there is information - whether classified information, they can be enforced before the court - that is to say that George Soros's role is even stronger than what we see now. But it wasn't, and the National Bureau of Investigation dropped the better case by saying they didn't have any information to base it. I therefore believe that you do not have any more, because if there were, you would have to press charges, because you have an obligation to report them; even our non-jurisdiction fellow Members can know that in this horseshoe. I believe, in conclusion, that the circumstances of the submission were not only that you were concerned about the immigration situation. It needs to be resolved, but not encouraging proposals for decisions, but, for example, by adopting the amendment of the basic law together with the permanent ban on settlement bonds or by taking effective action in Brussels. That's how you do it. This proposal for a decision - although most of the findings would otherwise be eligible, so as I said - will be supported, but it is a much greater threat to Hungary, which the Orbán government is carrying out in terms of the breakdown of democracy and the breakdown of the rule of law. We are determined to protect Hungary, our country, not only from external enemies, external destructive forces, but also from internal ones. It is very interesting that this referral came before the House as a matter of urgency when last week their little action at the State Audit Office did not go as planned. It was possible to read on the Internet that several Fidesz MEPs said to the media - of course anonymously, this is how they usually do when they say something that is different from the central line - that they did not think that if the State Audit Office, under the leadership of the former Fidesz Representative, imposed such a punishment on Jobbik, people would get the idea of what a terrible thing this is and what abuse Jobbik has committed, but people saw through this situation and reacted that this was another direct step towards the demise of democracy, and anyone could come next. This means the experience of Hungarian society over the last seven years. It is not a matter of taking a step against Jobbik, and if individuals have no negative experience of economic, administrative, state and government in any area of life, they will have the idea that democracy is over, democracy will be reduced. It took people's personal experience. I must say that we would like to finally address the real internal problems that threaten Hungarian democracy. We accept this proposal, and let us move on, and let us focus on things that are also of interest to Hungarian people. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-12-32	Thank you, Congressman Gábor Staudt. The Possibly Other Group of Politics has not set up a keynote speaker. Dear Parliament, The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Mr Szabó Szabolcs, an independent Member.
u2017-12-12-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[On the display there is 0 minutes next to the name of the independent, then the clock starts in a negative direction. Defiance.]] Yeah, it's the unorthodox session. [[The clock is set.]] Thank you very much for setting the clock properly. All of a sudden, I was starting to wonder if I was really starting with a minus. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It was very interesting to listen to the speakers before me, they said a lot of things, but I think it wasn't really the point. Gábor Staudt started talking about what the point might be. I'm not actually talking to the Members, because they know, on the pro-government side only, they don't talk about it, but I would rather say to those who might listen or watch the meeting over the Internet, or they will read the minutes about this meeting by historians dealing with the subject, so let's make it right that the European Parliament's decision, of course, is not about what has been said here. A little familiar with the European Union's rules of procedure looks like the European Parliament has taken its negotiating position, and then, together with the Council, they will decide how and how the Dublin Convention will be reformed. In a normal country, this works by the Hungarian government forming its position in accordance with this procedure and then representing it in these negotiations. Accordingly, what lies before us here is, in a legal sense, a completely nonsense, and the reference in (paragraph 1) does not apply. From this point forward, it is quite clear, I think, to everyone, that it is only about Fidesz campaigning and trying to maximize the refugee situation, as they say recently, and possibly pushing the opposition to see how big the villains are, while they are protecting the country. Szilárd Németh is particularly fond of doing this in Csepel, but he has failed the election in Csepel and Soroksár, but, for example, in the local government newspaper Csepel Messenger, which should not function as a fidesz party, but it works like that, he regularly sends messages to me, saying that I want to install 15,000 immigrants. [[István Szilárd Németh: You should write your opinion too!]] Paragraph 1 of this Article. From this point forward, it is quite clear, I think, to everyone, that it is only about Fidesz campaigning and trying to maximize the refugee situation, as they say recently, and possibly pushing the opposition to see how big the villains are, while they are protecting the country. Szilárd Németh is particularly fond of doing this in Csepel, but he has failed the election in Csepel and Soroksár, but, for example, in the local government newspaper Csepel Messenger, which should not function as a fidesz party, but it works like that, he regularly sends messages to me, saying that I want to install 15,000 immigrants. (Németh Szilárd István: You could write your opinion too!) That is what this is all about, while - in vain, Congressman - it is, unfortunately, as Gábor Staudt clearly said, that you have allowed 20,000 people in for money. Then what are we talking about? So it would be better if you listened quietly to all this, Mr. Congressman, to turn a little into you. From this point forward, it is quite clear that we are not talking about the point. The whole story is that Fidesz is campaigning and pissing people off, just so that we don't talk about what's the biggest problem in this country's current situation. For example, let us not talk about the situation in hospitals, not about how education has been destroyed. You need to look at the latest PISA reports, which doesn't require any particular commentary. From now on, the text that we read here is not only a legal blitz, but a moral insanity, it is quite clear that what has been described here is morally unacceptable. I really don't want to be pleased with the role of telling a Christian Democratic Member of Parliament about what Christianity is about, but at least the supreme shepherd, who, I assume, is, after all, a dominant figure in his values, doesn't want to disprove him. Congressman Hollik has spoken for a long time about how much our culture and religious identity are at risk. Well, the Pope has told me many times enough that no one should refer to this, because that is simply not true. You have to look at it, the last time you said in September of this year that it is morally unacceptable for someone to refer to asylum cases as a reason for any action to be taken against them because anyone wants to change our cultural or religious identity. [[10.00]] The Pope approaches it in a very different way, for example, but this will be settled between you, Congressman Hollik and the Pope; or I don't know if you should go to confession and I can suggest such small things to him. And, of course, the text you've submitted here is practically none of the paragraphs are correct. It's either legally absurd, like I just referred to it in the context of the procedure, or it's got morally unacceptable things written in it, like anyone here wants to change the future and culture of Europe. Or they say absolutely absurd things, like Soros organisations taking over powers. I'm beginning to miss the image of Bronstein in 1984, so let Soros appear in the National Assembly. 'Cause otherwise, they're totally acting like one. I don't know if they read 1984. Technically, they're doing what Angsoc presents as communication propaganda. They're fighting an enemy that doesn't exist. We may soon get to the point where we're walking like London, that he's even getting the party to shoot Budapest, because that's how we can maintain fear. But let's hope they don't get this far. But it is also completely absurd that it is even written that they want to represent the people's will declared in a referendum. The big deal is that this was an invalid and ineffective referendum. Well, I've rarely seen a proposal refer to anything that doesn't exist. They're referring to something that doesn't exist legally. In summary, I can only say that, if you were interested in reality, you would be dealing with Hungarian problems on the one hand and, on the other hand, in cooperation with the European Union, working together with other Member States of the European Union, possibly involving the opposition on how to reform the Dublin Convention, so that it can work well, how to reform the rules of procedure for refugees in order to use this word that is now less fashionable. But they're not doing that, they're trying to embarrass everyone for the sake of a clear party propaganda, and otherwise they're putting in a completely insufferable text. Szilárd Németh's signature, Mr Balla's signature, is all right, we know them. I do not understand, and I have already said this in connection with other proposals, how Gulyás Gergely is doing this, because he is one of the most qualified lawyers in the country. I find it hard to imagine how he can look in the mirror. But that should be his problem. Thank you for listening.
u2017-12-12-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Molnár, MSZP. And thank the Parliament for its cooperation, for a merry Christmas and a healthy new year. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2017-12-12-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Of course, I'll wait for the switch to take place. Dear Parliament, In the Soros issue, what you're saying, government representatives, it's like saying that there are witches. What is happening here is the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian nation, the deception of the Hungarian people repeatedly, for many times, deliberately, and what is most sad, from many tens of billions of forints. What is happening here is a disgrace because, from a procedural point of view, obviously bypassing the two-thirds rule, you should not have had a decision proposal adopted, but a political statement, since you have already made the non-existent Soros plan a part of your campaign. Because there is no Soros plan, everyone knows it, their politicians know it, some of their ministers know it, and their representative in Brussels knows it. In this form, there is nothing more than the tactics, the tactics about how to divert attention from the situation of shameful health care, the destruction of education and the Hungarian public states at all. They use the term Soros Plan as a rescue army, which speaks of nothing but - once again - the deception of the Hungarian people. They can't even comply with the rules in procedural terms, but the bigger problem is the content issue. After all, they refer to a non-existent Brussels plan, a businessman's statements, and, under the pretext of this, they are trying to get an irregular procedure before the Hungarian Parliament to accept a decision that will be referred to in their campaign. I mean, let's face it, it's all about Fidesz-KDNP's desperate campaign effort. Why do I say that? On the one hand, because the Brussels Commission is not entitled to such a presentation, only the European Council could propose a compulsory quota and the Heads of Government represent each country. It's perfectly clear they won't do that. As early as June 2016, the Hungarian Parliament rejected this proposal in the so-called yellow flat procedure, including the MSZP and all parliamentary parties. And since then, there has been no substantive proposal, nor has György Soros, who could do such a thing, either in Brussels or in the Commission, but above all in the European Council entitled to the decision, which would base the Soros Plan or compulsory resettlement. This is a rumour; it speaks of nothing more than terror and misrepresentation. You can't go along with the fact that you're the only one who's forced to install me in this country for a lot of money, which will also damage public finances. After all, let us not forget that the settlement policy, which authorised nearly a quarter of a century's immigration to Hungary for a lot of money, also damages public finances, is also a national security risk. I mean, we know they decided to do this with superficial scrutiny.
u2017-12-12-36	Congressman, please take a look at your cell phone.
u2017-12-12-37	I don't have a cell phone.
u2017-12-12-38	I'm sorry, we just don't know if there's some kind of distraction.
u2017-12-12-39	Thank you so much, I don't have a cell phone. Continuing on this issue, there is another legal institution suitable for such resettlement, linked to Szilárd Kiss, which has been going unpunished for years. It was a visa factory in Moscow operated by a person who failed twice on national security clearance. Nevertheless, he could continue his business, and with the issue of thousands of such visas he could bring the trouble not only to Hungary but also to Europe as a whole. This type of resettlement is the basis for this issue. Therefore, for the time being, forced resettlement in Hungary can only be discussed in relation to the legal institutions created by you. No one else has done this in Hungary, yet you are trying to panic the country by referring to a non-existent Soros plan. The position of the Hungarian Socialist Party is clear and consistent. We do not support anyone - I stress, anyone - a proposal that would propose a compulsory resettlement quota for Hungary. There is no such thing, we do not support it, we have a position on this issue. Whether this proposal comes from Brussels or from any businessman, we will not support it, we have made it very clear many times. You don't want to understand. And that's why what's happening today is a disgrace, because it's a plan that doesn't exist. I repeat, in non-existent proceedings, in violation of house rules, the Hungarian legal system, spending tens of billions of forints, abusing the situation that you are the only ones who have wanted such forced resettlement in Hungary so far, they will obviously try to get Parliament to accept it. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party does not participate in such a voting procedure, as it is illegitimate. We consistently express the view that, although humanitarian issues are very important, Hungary will not accept anyone under a compulsory quota, we will not support such a proposal either in Brussels or in Budapest. However, we reject the abusive application of law and communication that you do. For many tens of billions of forints, they try to deceive people, use these tools for their own campaign. This shows nothing but desperation, and the fact that they still want a national consultation, a sham referendum, to bury tens of billions of forints, which will land in buddy pockets. That's why I'm saying that there's no Soros plan, but there's a Rogan plan, which is about the propaganda industry invading the country, and the campaign will be run from there, campaigning on state funds, and trying to cover up the terrible conditions of health and education. Shame! Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party does not participate in this, either in the vote or in this flea circus that is taking place here. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. [[10.10]]
u2017-12-12-40	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the keynote speeches, and the independent Members have already made use of the opportunity to speak. No one came forward for a two-minute speech. We now have further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Congressman György Balla.
u2017-12-12-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, From what I see, both representatives of the MSZP are leaving the room right now. [[Dezső, gullible, leaves the Chamber, and Dr. Zsolt Molnár sits back in his seat.]] For a long time, it seemed that they would not speak to him, since the chief speaker of the MSZP would have come second, but he probably had to get up early, and therefore he had only just managed to get into the room. It's not often, I think it's an example, and especially not in this type of case. I didn't think I'd ever say this, but right now I feel it might have been better if the head speaker of the MSZP hadn't come in, from their own point of view. From their point of view, because the schizophrenic condition they're in is really amazing. Now he says that they will not support such a proposal, a proposal that requires an introduction without a cap, either in the European Union or in Hungary. [[Dr. Zsolt Molnár: Yes.]] Compared to this, their MEP voted in favour of this obvious proposal - already in the past tense: it voted in favour. [[Dr. Zsolt Molnár: That's not true.]] It says that there is no such plan - while the European Union has taken a decision on it, it has been adopted by a majority. [[Dr. Zsolt Molnár's intervention.]] If you had only read the proposal for a resolution once, Mr President, which is submitted to Parliament, then the reasons for it are given in particular the facts adopted by the European Parliament. [[For signal:]] It's something to shake someone's head on, but the facts are really stubborn. I just don't understand what you're doing anymore. Back in the day, they were talking about no immigration, no fake problem, and now they're talking about no Soros plan. You know what I don't have, Congressman? Your word is true. There isn't one. That came out a long time ago. Why don't you just admit that you're pro-immigration? [[Dr. Zsolt Molnár's name.]] Why don't you just come clean? Why are they obviously lying to everyone's eyes? What's in it for you? Who are you planning a coalition with, Congressman? Who do they talk to every day? [[Dr. Zsolt Molnár: With the Hungarian people.]] The Hungarian people. You think the Hungarian people are called Ferenc Gyurcsány. Bravo! [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Every day your party president is with Ferenc Gyurcsány, and they are preparing for a joint election and then a joint coalition of governments. Ferenc Gyurcsány, who himself and his MEP have repeatedly said openly that immigration is a good thing, immigration is an important thing, the European Parliament has made an excellent decision. Péter Niedermüller proudly took part in his preparation. I would like to make this clear, and I would also like to make it clear to Jobbik: immigration is not a problem. It is a case that can completely change the existence of Hungary and Europe within five to ten years. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] It's not a simple problem. It's a matter of fate. Lying all over the place about a matter of fate, not telling us what we really think, that's quite shocking. Congressman Szabolcs Szabó told me. Here we have heard: he thinks it's a great thing if the refugees arrive, it won't change our culture; we lie if we think otherwise that the masses of people from the Arab world, Africa, are completely differently socialized. [[Szabolcs Szabó constantly intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] will affect Hungarian culture, Hungary and its ethnic composition. Go to Western Europe sometimes and look around, because unfortunately, there we can see the consequences of everything. It is a question of what position Hungary takes in this case, what position the Hungarian Government takes. I was pleased to hear that Jobbik will now support this resolution proposal. [[A statement from Jobbik: You heard it yesterday.]] Little problem is that Jobbik often says a lot of things, and then often does a lot of things differently, one minute like this, the next. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: You always do this.]] It is certainly a step forward that you now support this, I mean for you, but you will never be able to remove the shame that when you had the opportunity to amend a constitution in Hungary following the obvious and clear will of 3 million 300 thousand people, you voted against it. [[Noise, uproar, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks, including: You voted him six times. Dr. Staudt Gábor's hands will give you six.]] This shame - once before the Hungarian Parliament there was a clear, clear proposal on the issue of referendum, and you refused to vote on it once when you had the opportunity to do so. [[Noise, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2017-12-12-42	Fellow Members! Excuse me, Congressman. Everyone has the opportunity, please indicate your intention to speak, I give you the floor. Go on, Congressman.
u2017-12-12-43	It is certainly commendable, of course, and it is in favour of Jobbik that their MEP, Krisztina Morvai, did not accept this proposal for a resolution. Gábor Vona hasn't even spoken to him in three years. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Krisztina Morvai himself said that, I didn't make it up, she told me several times. Gábor Vona would like to speak to someone else, Gábor Vona Szél Bernadett, co-chair of the LMP. He wants to make an alliance with her, by the way. Now, with the LMP, honourable Members, who is not here for this debate; who has been consistently and clearly pro-immigration all along; who has worked for a Soros organisation. Gábor Vona is not talking to Krisztina Morvai who rejects the resolution proposal, Gábor Vona is talking to Szél Bernadett, who worked for a Soros organization and who is pro-immigration. That is why I say that I am pleased that Jobbik will accept this resolution proposal, but it will not reassure me by a hundred percent. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-12-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Molnár, MSZP Group.
u2017-12-12-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressman, I'm going to speak to you, and I'd like to correct some of your material errors. It is worth considering that the European Council is entitled to take such a decision in the European Union. There was no such decision, nor can it be made. And I said it three times in my speech, and I will say this fourth time: the Hungarian Socialist Party does not support such a quota proposal. All of our bodies have decided not to support it. In June 2016, we voted in favour of the yellow paper procedure. So what you're saying is abusive. It's obvious he doesn't want to understand what's going on. It is also sad that there is a debate in the Hungarian Parliament on an obvious issue, since this compulsory resettlement quota, which is not, would not be supported by anyone. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So it's a double twist on this issue. Péter Niedermüller is not a representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party. [[Interviews from Fidesz: Coalition partner. Németh Szilárd Ist.: But Szanyi Tibor does. The president's ringing the bell.]] That is why I ask you to stick to the facts: the Hungarian Socialist Party has never supported, nor will it support. We're on the same page. However, what you're doing here is disdaining the country, squandering the public money and a misconception. Please don't continue. Then, if the European Council has such a proposal, in which you, by the way, represent it, and the Prime Minister, if appropriate, represents the country, let us return to this question. I am very confident that you will not reconsider your previous views. And let us not forget that the Soros Scholarships have been used, not by the representatives of the Socialist Party, but by the current representatives in your benches. These belonged to the facts. We're really leaving or leaving, because we can't continue this circus that's going on here. We should talk about the real problems of the country. Thank you very much.
u2017-12-12-46	Thank you. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, Jobbik Group.
u2017-12-12-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, However, I would like to add to what Mr Balla György said. Not only Krisztina Morvai, but Zoltán Balczó, Béla Kovács, all the better Members of the European Parliament have consistently and continuously advocated that there should be no resettlement or forced resettlement in Hungary. So all the good guys stood up. [[Dr. Zsolt Molnár is leaving the Chamber.]] Then I would like to say, Mr Balla György stressed that Jobbik was the one who did not vote to fix the impossibility of introduction to Hungary in the Fundamental Law, so that we would not allow forced resettlement, even though you did not vote six times, because we wanted a complete ban on resettlement, and you wanted to maintain a loophole to keep the introduction to Hungary with the permission of the government. One fact: in the last 200 years, the Orbán government alone has deployed foreigners in Hungary. Since Maria Theresa, there hasn't been an organized installation like what you've been doing with the settlement bonds for the last five years. For you, it is important that no migrants arrive in Hungary until you have no financial benefits. There, when HUF 220 billion of financial gain was realised by bringing migrants in with a settlement obligation, you immediately accepted this. That's right, you voted for the settlement bonds, you're the ones who have planted 20,000 people in Hungary with settlement bonds! And what then, what will you do, how will you smile then, my fellow Members of the Fidesz, and then, when your immigration policy comes in, a foreigner may explode in Europe? Then how will you smile? At a time when the terrorist threat will occur in Hungary, which you have allowed in? Are they gonna smile like this, that it's not our responsibility? You're the only ones who installed me here. You are the executives of Plan Soros in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] [[10.20]]
u2017-12-12-48	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give you the floor, in a normal time frame, Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-12-12-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I do not deny that I have come today to try to highlight an aspect that is very few mentioned. The Hungarian government is under attack, both nationally and abroad, which unilaterally accuses the government, Hungary, of imagining some kind of lock at the border that is able to permanently eliminate the migration that represents a worldwide movement, a population movement that is unpredictable at the end of the population movement. I think you're very wrong, who thinks that the government doesn't think in greater perspectives and far more far-reaching. What we are talking about, honourable House, is that what we must do here is to protect our own borders safely on the one hand; therefore, we have done everything we have done over the past period, and we must do it in the next. But we have a great task: to convince Europe that the task that we have taken on ourselves and which is irreplaceably necessary for Hungary is also necessary for Europe. Europe needs to be convinced that it is not enough, we know that no country has a safe border. We are aware that Europe's borders do not begin or end with us. And we are also aware that our future has been closely linked to Europe for over a thousand years, and that is certainly how it will remain. Consequently, there is a need to find ways and ways that make Europe able to use the power of self-defense. That is why I believe that the debates that have been taking place in the various organisations of the European Union for a long time have always ended with the fact that they are incomprehensible to the Hungarian position. We should finally understand the need for longer-term thinking. On the one hand, there is an urgent need for common protection of Europe's borders, and on the other hand, steps must be taken to minimise the possibility of migration. What do I mean? First of all, there are economic conditions in which strong European economic powers can do a lot, and there is another aspect of this: we should start an enlightenment programme - and I have to say - that will make people understand that if many of them are victims, they will start to make money, if they make money, if they put their lives away, then they will go into a situation of uncertainty, which is likely to end up going back to the same point from which they started, but into even greater misery. It must be understood that Europe has all the means to do so. We have provisions for rich states that we do not have, but which we try to replace as we can. It should be made clear that it is not only a matter of providing economic assistance, but also of understanding that their future is only safe where they were born, where they belong, where they belong, where their culture, where their families, where everything connects them. Giving up everything, and I think that's what a lot of people don't understand, how painful it is. Many Hungarians lived this after 1956, even in my circle of friends, who gave up everything because they went to the border in terror. They thought they'd be welcomed with open arms. Well, they've been welcomed to a shelter camp. And after that, not according to their degree, not according to their qualifications, but what they had a hard time achieving were able to manage there. But they're in the same culture, they're in the same culture. I ask myself, are the people who are going somewhere, from a Muslim culture, or from any other culture that is alien to ours, what opportunities are they coming here with? What has to be understood by the leaders of Europe, and I believe that this is why the government is taking on the battles, is to make these governments understand that they have started calling these people in so that they do not act as they did at the time - let me quote him - Marx said about the capitalists that they would sell even the rope with which they were hanged. Don't do this, because the rope we're talking about could affect all of us. Consequently, I think Europe needs to wake up, Europe needs to protect its own borders, and that people who are now forced to leave, stay in their birthplaces, thrive there, have a chance to live there. I am convinced that this decision seeks to serve the purpose of making it clear to the European Union: it is not born against the European Union, but for the European Union, for all of us. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-12-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work in two minutes, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik Group.
u2017-12-12-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Fidesz is in a lot of trouble, because it seems that the only election campaign message they can send to the Hungarian people is that they are the only ones who protect the country against immigrants. The only problem with that is that it's a lie. And this lie is not properly prepared, despite writing any communication panels to you by Árpád Habony or anyone, it's still much harder to communicate lies than the truth. And against the truth by lying, you won't get anywhere. You cannot tell the Hungarian people that they will govern fairly, because if they have not governed fairly in the last 8 years, why would they govern fairly from 2018 onwards. You can't tell people to fix education and health, because if they haven't fixed it in the last eight years, then why would they fix it in the next period? On the other hand, Jobbik claims from the very first moment that Hungary must be protected from migration, that the fence will remain even if Viktor Orbán will go, and even by restoring the border guard and other measures it will be necessary to prevent anyone from entering Hungary illegally. And, of course, in the form of a settlement policy, no migrant would come to Hungary in the case of a Jobbik government. These things have to be stated, and it appeared here from the previous embarrassing struggle that they had not received any communication training on what would happen if Jobbik supported this proposal. And of course, it is possible to come here with our MEPs and to highlight one of them that he voted for it, but our MEP Zoltán Balczó also voted against it, so in the same way that Krisztina Morvai does not need to highlight one of them, but then let us see that Jobbik does not support immigration either in the European Parliament or in the Hungarian Parliament, and does not support the resettlement of migrants. In addition, we will hold firm, and we will hold out in the future, whatever the government side and Fidesz are lying about. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-12-52	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I wonder if anyone else would like to speak in this particular debate. [[There's no such signal.]] I do not see an application; the consolidated debate is closed. I would like to ask which of my fellow Members who wish to respond to what has been said. [[There's no candidate.]] I see that everyone has already expressed their views during the debate. Dear Parliament, I declare that the decisions will take place on this day. Dear Parliament, It follows from a series of amendments to the laws necessary to provide adequate information to the beneficiaries of certain benefits and benefits provided by the State and from the 1992 LXVI on the registration of citizens' personal data and address. a joint debate on the proposal to amend law in an exceptional procedure. [[10.30]] Government referral T/18824. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, In the debate, I give the floor first to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, Deputy Minister, author of the bill. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-12-12-53	Mr President, Dear Parliament, On 11 December, Dr. Zsolt Semjén submitted to Parliament, on behalf of the Government, amendments to the law necessary to inform the beneficiaries of certain benefits and benefits provided by the State and the LXVI of 1992 on the registration of citizens' personal data and address. its bill amending the law. The purpose of submitting the bill is to help beneficiaries of certain benefits and benefits granted by the State to receive adequate, easily transparent information. It is of particular importance that, in addition to the information already available, the State tax and customs authorities and the Treasury provide beneficiaries with additional direct information relating to discounts, exemptions and benefits, thereby helping everyone to benefit from the available tax incentives, exemptions and benefits provided by the Treasury in the best way and to the best possible extent. It is important to stress that the proposal also ensures that the rights to the protection of personal data and to your tax privacy are not violated for the taxpayers receiving the information. In addition, any person may, for any reason, provide for at least 30 days before the date of notification that he does not wish to receive direct information. The bill also contains the 1992 LXVI on the registration of civil persons' data and addresses. the amendment of the law. Since the operation and operation of the register containing the personal, address and address data of citizens is the responsibility and competence of the Ministry of Interior as of 1 January 2017, the scope of the data stored in the register should be clearly listed, which is adapted to the technical and IT characteristics of the register. On this basis, I would like to ask the Parliament, my fellow Members, with all due respect, to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-12-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman István Hollik, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee. Here you go.
u2017-12-12-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would just like to inform the Parliament and you briefly that the Legislative Committee discussed the T/18824 before us on the basis of the rules on the exceptional procedure yesterday. and the committee adopted a report with 21 votes in favour, without discussion. In the Legislative Committee, the Committee did not submit a summary amendment, given that no intention to amend the Committee had been received. That is why I call on my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-12-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I would like to inform you that the factions have 30 to 30 minutes, and the independent representatives have 8 minutes. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás László, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-12-12-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The bill before us seeks to amend four laws, which include partly technical changes and partly data protection-related changes. LXVI of 1992 on the register of citizens' personal data and address. Laws make amendments of a purely statistical and technical nature. It is proposed that the statutory register, unlike the previous one, contains not only the fact that citizenship has ceased to exist, but also the establishment and date of it. CXXII of 2010 on the National Tax and Customs Office Law 80/A Paragraph 1 is added. At this stage, the NAV is authorised to process the data of eligible persons for government information on tax-related benefits. As in the NAV Act, the 2011 CXCV on public finances is amended. Law, too. The Treasury shall be authorised to process data relating to rightholders in order to provide government information on the grants it grants. It is important to point out that both the NAV and the Treasury conduct the information campaign themselves, so that the protection of personal data and your tax privacy is ensured, since the relevant data are not transmitted to another controller. On the other hand, it is necessary to mention that if the holder does not wish to avail himself of the information, he may waive it in writing to the Treasury at least 30 days before the date of notification. Ladies and gentlemen, It is of particular interest that both NAV and Treasury customers have as much knowledge as possible of the benefits and subsidies provided to them in order to benefit from the available tax incentives, exemptions and benefits provided by the Treasury in the most favourable way and to the extent possible. In view of what has been said, I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-12-12-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Burány, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-12-12-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Undeniably, Christmas broke into the National Assembly. This was already seen yesterday, when Viktor Orbán simply wished for a merry Christmas without any meaningful answers. Today's bill, which we are discussing in exceptional proceedings here in Parliament, also indicates that it is Christmas, it is time to give gifts. Apparently, Fidesz is preparing not only for the gift, but also for the citizens to know exactly what kind of gift they receive from Uncle State. It is not without precedent, and we can only be glad that the government does not want to take over the personal practices of some fidesz politicians. After all, in recent days we have seen a number of tasteless examples of how pro-government politicians are campaigning against the fact of poverty, how they distribute food by carefully sealing their own names on eggs to be distributed. I don't know how to do that with potatoes, but if they have an idea, they're obviously gonna do that. And now they're submitting a bill, which is very simply about letting the state know carefully from now on what kind of tax relief or other state benefits they're receiving. This is one of the new instruments of propaganda, not to mention, that millions of personal data are reclaimed by the government and used exclusively for propaganda steels. In our understanding, the state is a service organization. We believe in the function of the service and service state. A state has a dog's duty to carry out its task under the laws of Parliament, which have been granted, made, created, without special notice or merit. It's obviously not enough for this government. [[10.40]] He seems to like to mail with his citizens, but of course, these correspondence is one-sided, exclusively on the topics he chooses and only through propaganda solutions. These letters will now be added to the possibilities if this bill is adopted by the Parliament. If someone hadn't already known who would give them a personal income tax allowance, if someone hadn't already known who would give them, say, family allowances or any other benefits, they would have learned this from the state in the form of a personal letter. This is clearly the purpose of this bill before us. Christmas or no Christmas, we believe that state benefits should not be treated as gifts and should not be used in any way for propaganda steels. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-12-12-60	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-12-12-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, it could be a very good law, which is before us, because it contains beautiful things and also contains technical solutions. Obviously, it's the 1st. There is no problem with §8 of the Act concerning the address register, what should be included in the register; it should now also include the date of the establishment of nationality, the fact and the time of the establishment. It's a technical issue. We don't have a problem with that. We wouldn't even have a problem with the discounts on the taxpayer, or the discounts on those who have any rights from the Treasury, receive any money, and receive information about it, I have no problem with that, and we have no problem with that. The problem begins with why it is, why it is, why it is here now, and why it is here in an exceptional procedure. If we ask these questions, we can see something, see something clearly. What's that? Why are you here now? No one in the Fidesz-KDNP has thought of that in the last eight years. [[He snaps his fingers.]] They should be informed of their right to tax exemptions and tax exemptions. But who's to inform them? Well, according to this, the government. The NAV won't inform you or the Treasury, he'll ask the government. We will write that at the request of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán we will inform you that this is the right and such a discount. I ask you, when will a similar letter be sent out from those to whom, say, a fine is received, that this is also at the request of the government, with the signature of Viktor Orbán... Well, it's not nice that you have to pay this fine, so you must have done something nasty, which is why you need the fine. Then why don't you go out for information on this matter? Why does the letter only come out of discounts? Why does the government want to look beautiful again and stand on the side of the people or show themselves? We also see that the Orbán government has spent money on government propaganda that may have happened last time during Goebbels in Nazi Germany when there was this kind of government propaganda. They're trying to fully convince people of the government's purpose. You don't measure with equal standards. You say that we use state money to announce how good this government is, but at all levels we prevent the opposition from disproved or even expressing its own views on these issues. What's the outcome? It creates a one-party leadership. You want to publish your own opinion on the state's money, on the public money of taxpayers, and you want to influence them, while you are trying to prevent the opposition at all levels, such as in this case, using the State Audit Office to prevent Jobbik from running for office in the elections. How can we talk about democracy in Hungary? Of course, you say it's a nice law, let's look at it, we're just doing good for the citizens. Yeah, but when, how and in what way? If we ask ourselves these questions, we will see the goal, we will see the reasons behind it, so that you can spend billions more; you can promote the government again; you can create another propaganda material to bomb people. Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, people are sick of government propaganda. They're tired of getting letters every week about a fake national consultation or anything else you'd like to get to the people. Trust me, this is counterproductive. It's counterproductive if they're going to do it in any case, although you believe it. We hope that the 2018 election will prove that they are wrong. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-12-12-62	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Independent Members shall not participate in the debate, nor shall they be present in the Chamber. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. There is now room for further speeches by Members. I ask my fellow Members whether they wish to make use of the opportunity to speak within the given time frame. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-12-12-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to react briefly to a brief debate. First of all, thank the governing parties for their support for the bill. On the other hand, I was amazed to hear the opposition speeches, although I agree with Sándor Burány: this is indeed a Christmas bill, and there is nothing political about it. I could also say that this is a perverting law that Jobbik has taken, and it has taken the hook, because to make out of this law that there is no democracy, that there is a one-party system, and to compare this law to the propaganda of Nazi Germany, well, congratulations to Csaba Gyüre! [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's not what I said.]] He doesn't lie to the Betterman's mind for that. I think that we should have read it and said that we are pleased that this bill has finally come here; we are glad that the government will inform voters in a regulated way of what benefits, what benefits, what subsidies are due to them, because this bill is not about anything else. So, dear fellow Members, I wish you a blessed, peaceful Christmas to vote on this bill together in an hour or two. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-12-12-64	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, According to our agreed agenda, the next Parliament will continue its work from 12 a.m. I'm taking a 12-hour break. Dear Parliament, In addition to the agenda, allow me to sincerely wish you and your entire family a blessed Christmas and a peaceful, happy, successful new year. Thank you for letting me work with you. We won't see each other this year. Thank you. [[Break: 10.48 12.06President: Dr. János LatorcaiCreaters: László Földi and István Szávay]]
u2017-12-12-65	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down. Bangóné Borbély Ildikó and Anita Heringes put boxes of stuffed cabbage on the table of the Prime Minister, the members of the government and some images.]] Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. I'm asking you to take your seats, make sure your cards are properly placed in the voting machine. [[For signal:]] It's good for the president to check if his own card is in the right place. Dear Parliament, It follows that H/18540 adopted the report by the President of the Curia on the 2016 activities of the Curia in the field of the provision of a legal unit and the control of local government standards. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. With all due respect, Dr. Péter Darák, President of the Curia, who is monitoring our work today on the ground in the box. Dear Parliament, As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/18540 will accept it. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal with 145 votes in favour, no votes against, with 24 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows that H/18541 on the adoption of the 2016 report by the President of the National Court of Justice. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/18541 accepts it. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 117 votes to 54, with no abstentions. It follows that H/18542 on the adoption of a report on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2016. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/18542 will accept it. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 117 votes to 54, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows in line with the European Parliament resolution on the implementation of the Soros Plan, H/18817. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. I would remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the motion for a resolution will be discussed in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/18817. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 142 votes to three, with no abstentions. It follows from a series of amendments to the laws necessary to provide adequate information to the beneficiaries of certain benefits and benefits provided by the State and from the 1992 LXVI on the registration of citizens' personal data and address. T/18824. Final vote of bill No 1. I remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/18824. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 120 votes in favour, 31 against and 26 abstentions. A series of amendments to the law on the extension of early life support for young people T/1799. Decision on the proposal for an amendment before the final vote on the legislative proposal and the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that the Parliament decided to postpone the final vote at its meeting on 28 November, the national T/17997/11. A proposal for an amendment to the final vote was tabled. The legislative committee's amendment before the final vote T/17997/12. and T/17997/13. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. The house rules are 55. On the basis of paragraph 1 of Section 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament shall decide on a proposal for amendment before the final vote by a single vote. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/17997/12. Proposal for an amendment before the final vote. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament shall decide on the proposal for an amendment before the final vote on the basis of paragraph 1 of this Article by a single vote. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/17997/12. Proposal for an amendment before the final vote. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment before the final vote by 177 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. [[12.10]] Dear House, After the Parliament has adopted the amendment before the final vote, we will decide on the amended single proposal in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the amended T/17997/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amended single proposal with 177 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It is now up to T/18317 on the amendment of certain laws concerning the official supervision of the financial intermediary system. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/18317/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/18317/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 120 votes in favour, 32 against and 24 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/18317/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 120 votes in favour, 33 against and 24 abstentions. Next, the 1990 XCIII on levies. Act and Act LXXVII of 2017 amending certain tax laws and other related laws T/18539, amending Act T/18539 Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/18539 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 148 votes in favour, with 30 abstentions, without voting against. It follows that T/18309 on the amendment of certain laws relating to education, vocational training and adult education and related legislation will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/18309/6. T/18309/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1839/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 120 votes to three, with 54 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/18309/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 118 votes to two, with 56 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2010 LXXXVII on the National Earth Fund. Act and the 2011 World Heritage LXXVII. T/18000. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/1880/7, and its summary report T/1880/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by our fellow Member Sallai R. Benedict. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 31 votes in favour, 119 against and 27 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1880/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 119 votes in favour, 56 against, with two abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1880/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 120 votes in favour, 55 against, with two abstentions. The H/18302 on the villages of return follows. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision and the final vote. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment H/18302/6, and its summary report H/18302/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[12.20]] We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts H/18302/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 177 votes in favour, without voting against and without abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/18302/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 177 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear House, T/18320 on the amendment of laws relating to administrative bureaucracy and simplification of certain administrative procedures. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/18320/5 of the legislative committee's summary amendment report T/18320/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/18320/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 125 votes in favour, 27 votes against and 25 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/18320/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 119 votes to 26, with 8 abstentions. The Hungarian Sports Day, the Hungarian Parasport Day and the Hungarian Student Sport Day H/18211. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision and the final vote. H/18211/7 of the legislative committee's summary amendment report H/18211/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts H/18211/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 148 votes in favour, no votes against, with 30 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/18211/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 177 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear House, The 2011 CXCIX on public service officials follows. Act XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament T/1856. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/18565/14 of the legislative committee's proposal and its summary report T/18565/15. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments No 3 and Jobbik Group No 10. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 3 was tabled by Gergely Bárándy and Nándor Gúr. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 119 against and without abstention. Amendment 10 is proposed by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs and Mr Lajos Kepli. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 116 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1856/14. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment with 178 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1856/17. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 176 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] Dear Parliament, The 2017 XC on criminal proceedings follows a series of steps. T/1831 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the entry into force of law Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/18316/9, and its summary report T/18316/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/183169. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 119 votes in favour, 28 against and 30 abstentions. It is now the final vote. In view of the fact that the Parliament has just accepted the summary amendment proposal, the parts of the submitted bill requiring a qualified majority have been abandoned. Therefore, in the final vote, we will decide according to the rules of the simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/18316/11. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 119 votes in favour, 28 against and 30 abstentions. Following is the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. T/18296. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/18296/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/18296/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary proposal by 181 votes in favour, without voting against and without abstention. [[12.30]] It is now the final vote. May I draw your attention to the T/18296/7. According to the cardinality provision of the single proposal, the adoption of the single proposal requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/18296/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 180 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The 2011 CXC on national public education follows a series of steps. T/18297. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/18297 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 177 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The 2012 CLXXXV on waste follows. T/1831. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/18313/4 and T/18313/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/18313/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 118 votes in favour, 57 against and 2 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/18313/6 will accept it. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] It follows that T/18567 on the amendment of certain agricultural legislation in conjunction with the General Administrative Regulation Act and for other purposes. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/18567/6 and T/18567/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/18567/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 120 votes in favour, 52 against and 6 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/18567/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 119 votes to 53, with six abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, Next up is T/18310 on the rules on change-rights. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/18310/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/18310/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 150 votes in favour, no votes against, with 27 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/18310/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 146 votes in favour, no votes against, with 29 abstentions. T/18311 on the amendment of certain laws relating to state assets and national financial services Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1831/15 of the legislative committee's summary amendment report T/1831/16. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1831/15. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 119 votes in favour, 28 against and 30 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1831/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 119 votes in favour, 28 against and 30 abstentions. There will be T/18318 on the amendment of energy laws and related laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/18318/5 of the Legislative Committee's proposed amendment and T/18318/6 of its summary report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/18318/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 120 votes in favour, 31 against and 25 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/18318/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 120 votes to 31, with 25 abstentions. The 1997 CLV on consumer protection follows. T/1830 on the amendment of Act T/1830 on the harmonisation of certain laws on package travel. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The legislative committee's summary proposal for amendment T/18305/5, and T/18305/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1830/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 144 votes in favour, 9 against and 22 abstentions. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/18305... [[For signal:]] Sorry, we've already decided that. It is now the final vote. But I'd like to ask the clerks to check this out so we don't accidentally miss an important decision. Well, you have to give the notaries a job... It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1835/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 145 votes to six, with 25 abstentions. It follows from the 2005 CLXIV on trade. Law 1 and the 2016 CLVI on State tasks in the development of tourism areas. T/18537. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/18537/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/18537/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] [[12.40]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 117 votes in favour, 2 against and 54 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/18537/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 117 votes, 8 against and 49 abstentions. Next up is the 2007 LXXIV on the rules for broadcasting and digital transition. T/1856. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/18566/6, and T/18566/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1856/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 147 votes to 27, with two abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1856/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 148 votes to 24, with 4 abstentions. Next up is the 2015 CCXXII on the general rules for electronic administration and trust services. T/18530. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/18530 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 124 votes in favour, 25 against and 26 abstentions. Next up is the 1999 LXXXIV on the Road Transport Register. Act and Act XLIV of 2016 amending certain laws relating to transport. T/18564. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/18564/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/18564.5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 143 votes to one, with 32 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/18564/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 148 votes in favour, no votes against, with 27 abstentions. Next up is T/1831 on the amendment of certain health and health insurance laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/18319/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/18319/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 139 votes in favour, 29 against and 7 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/18319/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 141 votes in favour, 24 against and 8 abstentions. Following is T/18544 on the amendment of individual laws in relation to defence issues. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment is T/1854/5 and T/1854/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1854/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 117 votes to 31, with 24 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/185447. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 119 votes in favour, 30 against and 24 abstentions. Next up is the 2013 CCXLI on the National Remembrance Committee. T/18531. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/18531/6, and T/18531/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/18531/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 122 votes in favour, 48 against and 1 abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/18531/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 116 votes to 54, with one abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday, the Parliament has already held a hearing on these matters. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by Ákos Hadházy, LMP, and its colleagues on the publicity of economic interest and the register of lobbyists, as well as on anti-corruption amendments to certain laws. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 68 votes in favour, 99 votes against and no abstentions. [[12.50]] I ask you whether you will consider the amendments necessary by Ákos Hadházy, LMP and its fellow Members on the transparency of the state security past and on the laws necessary to exclude the professional personnel of pro-state leaders and dictatorship from the possession of certain public offices T/18153. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not include the bill with 59 votes in favour, 108 against and 1 abstention. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles entitled H/18173 on the adoption of party-independent principles of education policy by István Ikotity, our LMP colleague. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 61 votes in favour, 108 votes against and no abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles entitled H/18366. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 57 votes in favour, 112 votes against and no abstentions. I ask you whether you will consider the measures required by our fellow Members from the Ildikó Tóth and Bangóné Borbély MSZP to recognise and publish the mandatory scope of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Elimination of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence H/17954. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution in a series of subjects by 57 votes in favour, 109 against and without abstention. I ask you whether the 2010 CIV on freedom of the press and fundamental rules of media content will be included in a series of subjects by our better colleagues Dóra Dúró and Ádám Mirkóczki. Act CLXXXV of 2010 on media services and mass communication. T/18380. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 56 votes in favour, 110 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[Break: 12.53-13.00President: Dr. János LatorcaiCreaters: László Földi and István Szávay]]
u2017-12-12-66	Ladies and gentlemen, We'll get back to work. A general debate on the draft legislation on the spatial planning plan for Hungary and certain priority regions will follow until closure. The government referral is T/18783. Number 2 is available on the House's IT network. First, I give the floor to Minister of State Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-12-12-67	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, With this bill, the government is essentially finishing the work launched in 2014, closing the objectives for this cycle, essentially building a roof above the new institutional system for building. That is why we believe that this bill is essentially a milestone in the government's bureaucracy reduction measures for construction. In the case of construction, the long-term goal of government is to try to encourage domestic constructions, to boost them, and to make changes in quality that result in the creation or support of architectural practice, taking into account higher aesthetic quality and higher engineering knowledge, i.e. sustainability criteria. At the same time, our other goal was to apply the system of criteria for quality architecture, and the need to ensure compliance with these requirements determined all the legislative proposals that the Parliament could discuss and which were part of the professional discourses with various professional organisations, including the Chamber of Architects and Engineering. Of course, those involved in the field of architecture are not only the Hungarian engineering society and, where appropriate, companies or various public administrations as licensing authorities, but also the population, who has a very active involvement in the architectural heritage of these years. In 2015, the government adopted a plan of measures aimed at restructuring construction and a government decision on related tasks, which identified the following tasks, which contribute to simplifying the bureaucracy of construction and, as I said before, support the development of quality architecture in Hungary. Following the government's decision, let me present only a few of the most important measures to you. At the end of 2015, a simple notification procedure was introduced to support the implementation of family construction, as the duration of the various procedures was significantly shortened. Of course, the measures also have a statistical result: while in 2014, 4133 apartment buildings were licensed, in 2016 the number was now 9420 units without permission, essentially based on announcements, so more than double, in two years the government was able to increase the volume of construction of residential properties by more than double in the case of the construction of private properties. In 2016, the law on the protection of the settlement image was adopted, and thus the protection of the settlement image and the settlement planning were essentially based on new foundations. Our aim was to start a regulation based on a social consensus, shaped by citizens and implemented through voluntary compliance, which is understandable and preserves local culture in Hungary. The municipal visual manuals, on the basis of which the municipal regulations have been drawn up and are being prepared even in the days, as I would like to remind the public of the National Assembly that the municipal authorities have until the end of 2017 the possibility of drawing up the image manual. As it has already been mentioned in the first stage of the debate that municipalities with lower revenue have limited financial resources to carry out this work, the government has given these municipalities a grant of HUF 1 million per municipality. The Lechner Knowledge Centre continuously produces statistical indicators on how settlements stand on digital reconciliation platforms with these works, and here I am pleased to report that 97 percent of settlements, i.e. more than 3100 settlements, have started uploading municipal image manuals and regulations into this IT system. 63 percent of settlements have completed this work on the conciliation interface, so basically the completed manual is already available in uploaded form to anyone. If the municipal government does not make up its municipal decree by 31 December 2017 and thus by the end of this year, then the authority of the metropolitan and county government offices will act on this issue, which is also an important response, because in the previous debates it was discussed what the consequences of the omission might have.In the spring of 2017 it was born to amend certain laws to improve Hungary's competitiveness, which enabled county and municipal authorities to access free digital land base maps. The planning costs of county and municipal authorities have been reduced by several million forints, and since these plans form the basis for investment, this measure also contributes significantly to the rapid realisation of investment. Dear Parliament, This is how we arrived at the last, perhaps one of the most important stages of bureaucracy reduction, the renewal of spatial planning. The provisions of the Land Planning Act are the most important means of safeguarding Hungary's values of national importance, as well as coordinating municipalities and settlement planning tasks. With the new spatial planning law prepared by the Prime Minister's Office, the government and the Parliament set a framework for all investments in Hungary, given that spatial planning and settlement planning plans determine the exact use of the country's regions and settlements, including where and under what conditions it can be implemented. With modern settlement planning, Hungary's competitiveness will be significantly strengthened as we see it. The bill is a key part of the bureaucracy reduction in construction as follows. Instead of three statutory spatial planning plans - the national holiday area, the Balaton priority area and the agglomeration in Budapest - these three will be replaced by a law. The 43 Waterside Rehabilitation Ministerial Decrees in Balaton will be issued after the adoption of this Act and a government decree will be adopted in place. In preparing the bill, almost 500 partners were consulted by our colleagues, including both professional and civil society organisations. In addition to the partnership negotiations, we held presentations, events and several professional forums, with a total of 35 pieces from January 2017. The rules for the use of land so far will become more flexible, making it easier to prepare urban plans, which are the basis for investments, including those of the Modern Cities programme. It is important that the protection of nature conservation, environmental protection and built environmental values is not reduced or even strengthened in most cases. We strengthen the coordinating role of county municipalities, so the use of territorial development resources can also become more effective. Existing rights acquired are not withdrawn from the bill, so there is no need for compensation. We switch to the digital property registration base map, the outdated and inaccurate basic maps are replaced by the digital land office base map. Access to the free basic map was already supported by the Parliament in spring as part of the reduction in the bureaucracy of construction, and its application can now begin. Spatial planning and urban planning will now take place as a single basic map, the benefits of which are that the plans will better match each other, which will result in a faster design - a half-year instead of one and a half to two years - and a cheaper plan with a cost reduction of 30 per cent, with greater coherence with the implementation of investments and other improvements. The delay in the preparation of municipal regulatory plans for months, but not in rare cases even for years, is due to problems arising from the alignment of the current national spatial planning rules which are not compatible with urban plans, in particular in the cartography and interpretation of legislation. [[13.10]] There is a particular complication that the existing spatial planning plans are not in line with each other or with the sectoral data reports that have been updated in the meantime, leading to a further delay in any case in short coordination and planning. We are putting an end to this: the new Spatial Planning Act will be consistent with both sectoral data and basic maps of municipal legislation, and will be available in digital form, on a digital, mailing-free interface. The transition to the digital basic map will result in a cost reduction of approximately HUF 10 million for the county authorities, HUF 4 million for the smaller municipal authorities, HUF 20 million for the larger municipal authorities and HUF 90 million for Budapest. Dear Parliament, To sum up, the current bill complies with Article XXI. The challenges of digitalisation in the century, the aim is to further strengthen the competitiveness of Hungary and the Hungarian settlements, to balance economic development goals with those that affect the quality of life of settlements, and therefore we are happy to recommend it to the Parliament for adoption. Mr President, Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-12-12-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Richárd Hörcsik. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[Dr. Richard Hörchik is managing his microphone.]] I'll ask you to restore the clock to Congressman Hörcsik, because he hasn't had time to put the microphone on yet.
u2017-12-12-69	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, T/18783 on the spatial planning plan for Hungary and certain priority areas. I believe it is a very important milestone for the country's development. I remember that here, within the walls of the House, nearly a decade and a half ago we adopted the XXVI of 2003 on the national spatial planning plan. a law, which, I believe, after 14 years, is time to review, because the time passed and progress exceeded this law at that time, exceeded the rules on spatial planning at that time, and it has also become timely to establish consistency between the different levels of regulation. Dear Secretary of State, We thank you and the colleagues of the Prime Minister's Office responsible for this area, even because a proposal has been put on the table in this House which has accepted a significant part of the proposals made during the opinion phase, i.e. more than 90 percent. Spatial planning, based on the reconciliation of many interests, is calm, and I can safely say that the future-looking activity - I quote by definition of the law - is the establishment of a system of land use and rules for land use in the country and its regions. Ladies and gentlemen, The reform of spatial planning in the era is perhaps the best part of the fact that the spatial planning plans of the national and the Budapest agglomeration and the Balaton-preferred resort area were reviewed at the same time in the new planning system, and the new law provides for them at the same time, while repealing the so-called 2005 LXIV on Budapest agglomeration in addition to the law on the national spatial planning plan. Law and the so-called Balaton, 2000 CXII. Law. Well, there are bound to be contradictions between spatial planning plans not adopted at the same time, but the most important argument in addition to regulation is what the Secretary of State has said, that the government has rightly been fighting for a longer period of time for cutting red tape, including the introduction of unnecessary legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, The review of spatial planning legislation was both ambitious and conservative. The existing levels of protection will therefore not be reduced or the rights acquired will not be undermined. I believe that the most excellent example of this approach is the regulation of the area around Lake Balaton: it also gives way to the interests of lake users, for example, in relation to smaller boat ports, but also makes sure that the regulations do not increase more than they do now, and the protection of vineyards against installation is also of particular importance. Ladies and gentlemen, During the conciliation process, I was disturbed by the lack of certain infrastructure elements in this draft law, for example, in my constituency, I received several requests about why a section of the road was not included in the draft law. Let me also highlight some of these important issues concerning my constituency. The bill contains, for example, both the Szerencsi and the bypass roads at Tátaljaújhely. I would just like to point out to my fellow Members that the matter of both bypasses has been on the line and unsolved for a very long time. Under previous governments, they promised regularly, we remember well, the four lanes of road 37, but as with all the other promises, they did not come true either. However, the traffic on Highway 37 is now slowly unbearable due to international traffic in Slovakia, and that is why it is important to spare the two settlements, Szerencs and Sátoraljaújhely from the harmful effects of truck traffic. Today, only these two settlements suffer this situation, so to speak, and the other settlements in the region are avoided by Highway 37. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it would be a great help in itself to raise the issue of the Slovak-Hungarian bypass road to a higher level of government, because without our neighbours in the north, we cannot solve this matter. According to my information, the Slovak party has the capacity to receive, so it would be time, Mr Secretary of State, to take this issue to a higher level and we look forward to the government's support. In addition to the above, the importance of the Újhelyi bypass road is further underlined or highlighted by the management of route 381, which in fact means the transfer of the route changed in February 2014 in the regulation. It is extremely important that cross-border traffic takes place, but this should not lead to further deterioration of the quality of life of citizens in Tátonaljaújhely. Ladies and gentlemen, The issue of bridges, for example, raises a similarly important question. In general, what I would like to say about the bill is that it could be more ambitious in terms of infrastructure elements, which are so to say key to the different disadvantaged areas. Unfortunately, I have to say, our great rivers do not connect us, but separate us, we need much more bridges, for example, on the Tisza and its tributaries. I would just like to mention one example: Paks II. The project shows that without a bridge, we can give up thousands of people who would be considered as potential workers for one of the largest investments in Hungary. In my constituency, the case of the Keeszlő-Balsai bridge exploded in World War II and has not been rebuilt since then is the most important example of the above. [[13.20]] In recent years, we have held several public forums, and voters and local entrepreneurs consider this a serious opportunity. With my colleague, Győző Vinnai, who represents voters on the Szabolcs county side, we agree that this crossing would be a real break-out for the surrounding region. And I would also like to thank Pál Perlik, the born and born citizen of Budapest from Viss, and the entrepreneur, Levente Futás vissi, for keeping the case of that bridge awake in the past period. And at the last retail forum on 20 September in Viss, it was said by the competent ministry that the study plans could be financed from a HUF 400 million start-up. In this regard too, I ask, Mr Secretary of State, for the Government's support. Then, following the construction of the bridge, the renovation of the road to Kenézlő would lead to a new so-called cross-border connection between Zemplén and Szabolcs County, which, in our opinion, would induce further developments in the region. But since only Sárospatak has the closest Bodrog Bridge, to which the road will take you downtown with unfavorable lines, it would be necessary to avoid Sárospatak, which would link main road 37 to the Bodrogköz. As an alternative, the bridge could be built under Vámosújfalu, which would provide direct connection to the west of Bodrogköz. Dear Secretary of State, I would also like to point out that both Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county's spatial planning plan and the settlement plan of Sárospatak town include these options, these alternatives, as it would provide an important link between the Tokaj-Hegyalja and Hungary, which are protected by the World Heritage, and their most closed area, between the Bodrogköz and the cultural centre, Sárospatak, which is a part of the world heritage and which is important in the field of tourism. The Bodrog Bridge in Sárospataki, which connects to Bodrogköz, further increases the traffic problems, which can only be approached by a double right-angled road in the city's historic environment. It's very difficult to fit the trucks on this road. So the most closed part of Bodrogköz is Bodrogzug, and the settlements here are surrounded by rivers and nature conservation areas from almost all sides. The Tisza Bridge of Balsai, which I mentioned, was built in 930, once provided them with a connection to the world, so to speak, which was blown up in the second war. And it shows their position that since the change of system, no new housing has been built in the area. So the residents and entrepreneurs here have the last hope of this bridge. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, in my amendments, I will propose the inclusion of these infrastructure elements in the regulation and the enlargement of the Government regulation listing short- and medium-term infrastructure developments. Ladies and gentlemen, The spatial planning regulation is correctly counting on ambitious plans for motorways, and it is therefore gratifying that where there is good cooperation between neighbouring countries, plans can be implemented as soon as possible. The completion of the section of M30 near Tornyosnémeti, the completion of the nearly two kilometers, I believe, will be in a passable state during the month of January. [[Dr. László Varga: 1.3 kilometers.]] and the construction of the section to the county seat, according to my information, will begin in the spring. In a few years, we'll be on the highway from Miskolc to Košice. I believe that these are very important steps, and I believe that not only for the sake of accessibility of the region, Abaúj and Zemplén or the county capital of Miskolc, but also for the relations between the V4s, for example, this section will be an integral part of the so-called Via Carpatia European route, which stretches from the Baltic Sea to the Black Sea. But I also think it is important to stress that the bill before us is also serious about cycling routes. And I can also report that, thanks to the county's TOP, so-called interreges and HUSK applications in my constituency, a significant bicycle route will be built in 2018 in Abaúj and Zemplén and the World Heritage Sites of Tokaj-Hegyalja. I believe that this will also contribute to the tourism development of the region. Ladies and gentlemen, So I see that we are here in Parliament with a very important law, broken down by electoral district level and the level of the region, and I am asking my fellow Members to support this law with the appropriate amendments, according to the wishes of each of us in the constituency. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-12-12-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group indicated that their group's position was presented by two of their representatives. First, I give the floor to Congressman László Varga. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-12-12-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In particular, since I share the speech with my fellow Member, Gábor Harangozó, I planned to give a very short general introduction, in fact, to some general comments on the bill. In particular, it is possible to submit an amendment by 19 January, so I think that we can consider this to be a kind of first round, which is happening here today, especially with regard to the fact that this is the last proposal that Parliament is negotiating this year. However, it turned out that a countryman in my county gave the keynote speech on Fidesz, so let me speak very briefly, especially with regard to the issues he said, especially as regards infrastructure development and road development investments, which concern Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County. I would make so many comments in general, Mr President, that if you had made this comment in 2011, I think that what you said would have been absolutely relevant. Then, I think that by 2010, it could have been assessed what road development, what highway development took place in the county area. However, my problem is that practically nothing has happened since then. In the case of Highway 37, which you mentioned, in particular the fact that it is only a fortunate avoider, which has actually been missed, the other settlements are actually avoided by this main road, I can tell you that all the resources were available and all the plans were prepared for you to carry out this investment immediately after 2010, but I am ashamed that this trip has been in the news several times in the past period, there are very bad stages, which have been renovated only in a very small part, and the lucky ones are still forced to suffer the enormous transit traffic that this road produces in their city. So, on the one hand, the Highway 37 as one of the axes in the county in terms of Zemplén traffic is very much waiting for this investment. Nothing has happened with regard to the Keeszelő bridge in recent years. And to concentrate on a little more part of the county, the section of road 26 bypassing Sajószentpéter was signed all the way to Múcsony, it was prepared, resources were available in 2010 - it was not built. To this day, the Sajószentpéterians, if I remember the number correctly, have to suffer the transit of about 15,000 cars. It's amazing, especially in the morning and afternoon hours, the traffic that passes through that settlement. Here too, only promises were made; very many supported the action of the MSZP on the collection of signatures and other political demonstrations to build this phase as soon as possible. For the past eight years, there was also the 26th bypass. As far as the M30 is concerned, it is indeed part of an international agreement, as part of the Via Carpatia Convention, we have to build that transport corridor, from our part of it, from the Baltic States, which is actually moving towards Romania, and there part of it goes to Romania and partly to the Black Sea coast in Bulgaria. This is actually a north-south corridor in Eastern Europe. This can provide us with amazing transport and trade opportunities. The construction of this has, of course, been discussed for decades, but there is an international agreement that requires that we build it. [[13.30]] This has been incorporated into the programme. Modern Cities. As regards Miskolc. By the spring of 18 he considered it possible that it would be built, but promised at the latest to 19. I know I was at a press conference in Miskolc after the signing of this contract when you told me that. Compared to this, the M30 may be promised by 2022 today. And this section you've been talking about is actually a technical section, the transfer to the Slovak motorway to Košice with Tornyosnémet, that's all that was built, nothing else. I believe that, with the M30 reaching Miskolc by 2003, and in fact the Medgyessy government of that time handed over this section and connected Miskolc to Budapest by highway, nothing happened beyond that. But let's hope for good intentions. I'm going to really fight for these investments. I think that every politician in our county has a fundamental goal of achieving these in order to develop the county. With regard to Miskolc, I would just add that, of course, if we were to take this M30 out of modern cities, which is going to happen anyway, it would be possible to achieve more effectively the fight against air pollution by adding another point. I am also thinking about the smogkény of Miskolc University, the development of the health care of Diósgyőr, the rehabilitation of the area of the Diósgyőr Steel Works with about 135 hectares of brownfields or the development of the Diósgyőr Castle Bath. So if we look at the M30 in a different way, we can determine that. I would like to add that in general, Mr Secretary of State said that you have consulted some 500 partners. It's commendable, it's very important, I'm sure it's been a long process. However, I can say that this was not included in the autumn 17 legislative programme, nor can it be found on the government portal in the draft legislation prepared by the Prime Minister's Office. I really don't mean to piss, but let's just say there's a regulation on the conditions of welding. So what I can tell you is that it's definitely not a good thing that it didn't come up much sooner. Obviously, it is now available from Parliament's website. I think that the greatest publicity should have been ensured in this sense. But indeed, after 14 years, the relevant legislation can, of course, be reviewed. I can say that the deadline for the amendment to be submitted on 19 January may be partly good, because I think that in a second round, even the Legislative Committee can incorporate proposals that may be important, of course, partly - and perhaps Gábor Harangozó will say more about that - and in some areas I can already say that almost a moratorium should be introduced, since, in particular, it is being built on the shore of Lake Balaton. So, on the one hand, it is good that there is time for a few points, and for other points, it would have been necessary much sooner in this regard. In conclusion, I can tell you that until the 19 January period, we ourselves will consider amendments to each department and to our own territory, in order to make a prudent decision, but in order to ensure the effectiveness of territorial development and to prevent the construction of certain areas, immediate and rapid decisions are needed. My fellow Member, Gábor Bellozó, will continue what we have to say. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-12-12-72	Thank you, Congressman. He has already announced that Gábor Bellozó will continue with the keynote speech of the MSZP Group. Congressman used eight minutes of the time frame, so we'll continue from here.
u2017-12-12-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, I'm not a construction expert. I'm not trying to look like one. But one thing is very important to me, and that's why I asked for the floor in the main speech, what will happen to our national treasure, Balaton. Because what has taken place in the area of Lake Balaton in recent years is not only an outrage, but it is all our shared responsibility to do so to stop the processes that have started. The area around Lake Balaton has been built to a level that this process cannot continue. It is quite amazing that coastal areas that have operated as beaches and have been operating as camping sites have recently been eradicated, campsites have been closed down, and investors in these areas are building community resorts, which virtually ensure that some people have excellent recreational and recreational opportunities on the shore of Lake Balaton, while the masses are shutting down Lake Balaton and expropriating from them our common national treasure, which should be preserved in such a way that it should be available to everyone. The foundation started at the Balatonszepezd campsite, Mr. Secretary of State, the camping in Balatonfüred is under authorisation, the service facilities were destroyed at the Akal campsite, and obviously they also want to build resorts there, and the camping in Badacsonyörs is there, waiting for its fate. And what is most outrageous and most important to me is what is in Siófok in preparation. The symbol of Siófok, the Golden Beach, is to be destroyed by an investor by wanting to build a port in front of the free beach on the golden beach to serve the holiday resorts that have already been pulled up there, because he sold his holiday resorts with the idea that there will also be a yacht port, because it is not enough for these people to simply have free access to the Lake Balaton, even their yachts must be tied to the free beach and thereby destroy the free beach. It means that on this beach a towel can be put out and sunbathe, if this investment is carried out, but there is no way into the water, the area becomes muddy because of the port's establishment, which is simply unacceptable. This is the part of Lake Balaton where most families with small children go, because there is low water, high quality water and natural sandy soil. Rather, it should be developed in this area to make beach facilities that serve these families as much as possible, perhaps even covered in one piece, so that children are not sunbathed. That's what you should be thinking about, not building a yacht port here. So, something really amazing started, and because of that, my fellow Member Zoltán Gőgös and I have already tabled a bill before, which, in very short, would have meant that, where there is a beach, it would only be possible to invest in the beach, where camping, where it means the development of the campsite, and no change of function, and for some privileged people, it would not be possible to expropriate and exploit these areas. Obviously, there is a huge amount of money to be made of it, since the operation of a campsite is worth a few million forints a year, while if it is packaged, it will make hundreds of millions and billions for the person who sells it. I understand that this is a huge business, and obviously Lőrinc Mészáros bought up the company that runs these campsites. Everyone here is afraid that these processes will go on and destroy beaches and campsites. We have been promised that this law will be submitted in time, that it will be properly dealt with, and that this law will prevent such a change of function in these areas. Mr. Secretary, my problem is that the licensing procedures are in progress. On the one hand, the law does not make it clear enough that I can say that it is comforting to say that, although, obviously, some amendments can still be made to the safeguards to ensure that the law properly addresses this issue and provides adequate safeguards. But in the meantime, what, Mr. Secretary? In February, the House will vote on this law if everything goes well. Therefore, even if the amendments go through, if there is an appropriate consensus, this law can provide adequate assurance only in February. What's gonna happen until then? It is in our request, and it is in the interest of all lovers of Balaton, that, until this law is passed, there should be a moratorium on licensing procedures. Government offices do not issue any additional building permits and stop construction projects which do not comply with the legal objective. There's no way to do that now they're going to start something fast, they're going to give us permission, and then you're going to say, well, unfortunately, the law came later. I ask you very much, Mr Secretary of State, and I believe that this is not only the wish of the Balatons, but the lovers of the whole country, to prevent these permits from being used for the remainder of the period until the adoption of the law. [[13.40]] The other issue is that there is a problem not only with the construction of a yacht port in front of the free beach, but also with the fact that it has not been assessed how these yacht port constructions contribute to the mudification of Lake Balaton. Perhaps we should first carry out studies to assess the environmental impact of these yacht port constructions, and if they were born and it becomes clear where and how many ports can be authorised without further serious damage, then only these permits should be granted. Mr. President, thank you.
u2017-12-12-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Member of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2017-12-12-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Most of all, I wanted to say a sentence to Richard Hörcsik, who had just left, who complained that the Otrt. It's a 14-year-old law, and it was time to review it. Please tell him that Otrt. was last reviewed by the House in 2013 in compliance with statutory deadlines. Richard Hörcsik himself was probably in the vote, maybe even in the debate, and the Otrt. latest version of 2014. Not to mention that, apart from a regular five-year review, we have modified Otrt regardless, so in this respect we are not, to put it mildly, behind and delaying, so we are not talking about an extremely advanced law, but a law under regular review every five years. As is the case and the fact that after the change of regime, it was very difficult to have a new way of thinking about how to switch from socialist planning to the regulation of wildlife capitalism on spatial planning issues. This is why the Regional Planning and Regional Development Act is a new year, and four years later the first priority regional law was created, the Balaton Act, and then Otrt was born only in 2003. , and 2005 is the law on the resolution plan for the agglomeration in Budapest. Obviously, the legislators tried to resolve the most urgent issues as soon as possible, but the fact is that these laws are in some way maintained, they define a sort of order, and everyone has had time to get used to this order in recent years. In English: talking about cutting red tape, when again, I feel that we are turning the regulation of entire spatial planning a little upside down in relation to this bill, perhaps it is exaggeration, honourable Secretary of State. With regard to the word "softness" I would like to note that when you hear that word from you, there is always something twitching about what you should be flexible about. It is extremely difficult not only to review these laws, because they are extremely complex laws, this is without doubt, but also to review the subsequent settlement planning and regulations. But this is what we call democracy, that we can involve a lot of people, a lot of authorities, administrative authorities in amending these regulations in order to really create a prudent settlement, and not the free movement of capital, which determines the architectural environment and the use of the landscape around us. In view of the fact that Minister Lazarus suggested a few days ago that there could be a five-party consultation on this bill, I would like to ask that you have time and energy to do so in January, so that you can have an opportunity to negotiate before the amendments are tabled. We would like to thank you very much for this, even because we also have a lot of questions about the interpretation provisions. If we're going to do this seriously and honestly, then this law can't be chewed out in tiny letters in a day or two since you've put this law in place. We're shorthanded now. Let me tell you honestly and honestly that I would have tried to review this I don't know how many hundred pages of submission, but it would be a much longer process if I wanted every word, every letter, to be replaced, and to see what additional building rights are in this respect in a place where we don't want this to be possible. So now I can only talk about this bill in general. The other one, which also needs to be chewed over, is the question of infrastructure networks, the issue of annexes, I say it this way. As has already been said, many new roads, bridges, cycling routes and so on will be included in this plan, and this should be reviewed by all our fellow Members for the new developments closest to their own territory, their place of residence, their constituency. With regard to the detailed examination of the interpretation provisions, I would like to mention in particular that the fact that the country's structural plan will be a part of the work to be approved instead of the so-called decisive plan raises doubts in me. So far, Oszt is an annex to Otrt., but this may be a kind of degradation of this part of the work, since this was a fundamental issue on the technical infrastructure network, and so far this has been published in the spatial planning plan, not a structural plan under a government decree. With regard to large-scale green areas as an area, it should be noted that in the previous categories of land use there has already been a definition of such areas, as well as in county zones or priority zones, but not in this way, not in this form, to be a new category of land use and to be a recreational area. We know that, especially in the agglomeration area of Budapest, there have been many so-called golf courses, golf clubs, which was actually a cover story to create smaller residential areas in areas not originally intended for installation. Then the definition of the beach promenade raises a question mark. We've just come up with the integration of the Balaton Act into the whole law, and there are a lot of definitions here that give us question marks. Perhaps even one of my fellow Members will discuss this separately. [[13.50]] But the definition of the coastal promenade and the fact that the shoreline control plan will be in a government decree and that the plan will be defined in that government decree on the basis of different content criteria raises a lot of questions. So now I'm gonna put out a blank check for the waterfront rehabilitation regulations, instead of plans, it's gonna be pretty hard, I'll tell you the truth. A lot has been said about beaches and campsites, so let me add a few sentences. When the SCD Holding Jászai Gelléklátációs started to crowd around the shore of Lake Balaton and bought Siótour, Zalatour, and the Balatontourist, there was a very strange and interesting amendment of the Balaton Act in 2008, when it was already owned by them, the campsites became suddenly unanticipated, at a rate of 15%, and this is the same as the intensity of a loose residential classification. You want to keep this 15 percent up. So let's just say that this plan will continue to support the construction of the campsites. In addition to irregular construction, where it would be good to do tabula rasa once and for all. We know how we should have left a free coastal promenade around Lake Balaton, there is no trace of this, there has been a lot of construction; in this respect, let us create a chemical formula, and with the use of a kind of Baupolizei, these irregular installations should disappear from the environment of Lake Balaton once and for all. I don't see that in this story. The building of the tower house is also a problem in this bill, and I would like to ask you a question, in particular, to the Secretary of State. [[To Nándor Csep.reghy talking with Tuzson Bencé:]] If I could just share your attention a little bit. Today, the administrative areas of the settlements are divided into two parts in Hungary: areas intended for installation and not intended for installation. Here the law defines the concept of a tower house for us, it applies to buildings above 65 metres in height, and adds that a tower house is not intended for installation and cannot be placed in an area not intended for installation. Then tell me, where can you put it? Honestly. Now I'm here... [[For signal:]] Nowhere? Nowhere. But then where are we at with Garanchi's 120 meters? That's already got a building permit - and now you want to sign up with this story? Okay, well, in answer to that, I'd like to ask you very nicely to turn to the construction of the Garancsi Market and the 120-meter tower house. This announcement will shake the entire architecture society of Budapest, if it turns out that it cannot be installed there now, even because it is included in the Budapest regulatory plan. So taking this building right away from him, taking it away will only cost a lot of money, if that's true. However, I would like to turn to one of the most important topics in the last few minutes, namely, here is the fourth amendment of the Municipal Picture Act. For this is not only about the merging of these three laws in one law, but also about the Étv. amending and amending the Municipal Image Protection Act in order to ensure that the Government can now lay down the rules for installation in areas of particular importance in terms of urban image. I will translate this into Hungarian, so that everyone can understand. There is a settlement anywhere in Hungary, in respect of which the government can say that its interiors or any territory are of particular importance for the settlement image. 'Cause what does that mean, "highly dominant"? It's written in this law, what do we call a high priority? No. So whatever we say can be declared, and from then on, it will be the government that can lay down the rules for installation there. Then why should the possibility of settlements be given anywhere? In fact, why do we give such a right to a single municipality? For all 3200 settlements in all Hungary, it can be said that it is of great importance for the settlement image, and then there is a special priority TAK, a special priority tvr. must be made, and then in all respects it is the government that decides. But where is the principle of subsidiarity, then? In fact, why are we talking about giving self-determination rights to municipalities, for example, in terms of the image of the settlement, if we take away this most important licence from them, that we take away from them only where it is relevant, the possibility that they can create separate regulations there, in their own view, obviously with the help of professionals? And what is quite interesting is that it is particularly important for the government to be able to intervene in three areas, in the area of obligations, as appropriate. Therefore, the priority municipal image evaluation procedure and the priority settlement image notification procedure will now belong to the government and the obligation may be issued in respect of buildings built under a simple notification procedure, in relation to advertising placement and in connection with a change of destination. The fine will amount to HUF 10 million. I mean, do I understand that if an ad carrier you consider to be irregular is prosecuted, it will be HUF 10 million per billboard? That's what this whole story is about, isn't it? In fact, this is the only essential point of this whole 190 pages before us. Am I reading this right? [[Nándor Csepreghy: No.]] So the fine for each billboard can now be 10 million forints? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Mr. Secretary, I beg you to read this. You submitted this bill, that's what it's really about. That's why we won't be able to support him like this. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-12-12-76	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker for the LMP Group is Mr Sallai R. Benedek. There you go. You have the floor.
u2017-12-12-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, There are a lot of reasons why I don't like Fidesz. The main reason is that they had two-thirds of the time when they could have done anything good to the country, and this power or power was best used to preserve their public money pumps by means of power technology. We are on a subject of this proposal for legislation, when it is seen that a response is coming when you look at these more than 150 pages, that you practically do not have a concept of what Hungary should look like in ten years, in 20 years, in 50 years. There is only one conceptual idea in this proposal that would, at some level, be coherent with the country as a whole, with the Carpathian Basin as a whole, and in some harmony with each other, their water management thinking, their field thinking, their urban structure thinking. In this submitted plan, the national spatial planning plan, the Budapest agglomeration spatial planning plan and the area planning plan of the Balaton priority resort area should be managed for a few years, and it seems from the submission that you have collected lists from everywhere, such dream lists of who would like to do what, but have no longer dealt with any coherence between them. However, in a number of areas, a number of issues could be resolved as described or as possible in the proposal. Since there was very little time for a fully detailed point-by-point change, we are obviously interested in what they plan to do with the core area of the ecological network, which is not very sympathetic. Practically no area intended for new installation in the core area of the ecological network shall be designated, but you shall make exceptions from this point on to the surrounding area of the ecological network or the core area of the ecological network and the ecological corridor of the ecological network. I do not know how many of these texts have been interpreted and how many people have sought out the subject and the claim, but it certainly does not help to reassure us that the efforts of Article P of the Fundamental Law to preserve the biodiversity of the Carpathian Basin have been described in a law that is about as successful. The designation is not specifically prohibited by any other legislation, so in this plan it could be arranged what to do, say, with high-voltage power lines. [[14.00]] What is going on in the country now is at the same time in several places to raise their minds about what is happening on the line of Cegléd, Albertirsa, Kecskemét, or what is happening in the agglomeration of Pest with the construction of the 400-kilot power lines, it is obvious that these plans could handle these issues, the spatial planning plan could say that in the long term it will support land cables due to landscape and welfare functions, but it will not happen, but they will collect the needs of what the different segments would like, and they are obviously not coherent with each other. The need for climate resistance and proactive adaptation in terms of natural resources, the scarcity of land, water, biodiversity, continuous pressure and also a literal gateway to multinational companies on the basis of the proposal submitted, and the Budapest-Belgrád railway line can be a typical example in the development of the railway line. OTRT sets out general descriptions for the country as a whole, supplemented by regulatory proposals for two special areas, the Budapest agglomeration and the holiday zone highlighted by Lake Balaton. But if all of this is considered a priority and not integrated into the national defining approach that should be treated a little bit, that, apart from the Budapest-Balaton-Győr triangle, a significant part of the country is where it should live, and we should think about what the next ten to twenty years will look like there, then obviously this legislation would create the opportunity to get all of this into it. One of my fellow Members has rightly said that there are things in it that are eligible, but there are a lot of things that are not supposed to be involved, and we would be calm if these questions were to be dealt with. Secretary of State, during this discussion, tell me how the development of water supply systems outside this triangle will serve rural livelihoods in the long term, how they will adapt agricultural structures, land structures and how it will protect the core of the ecological network, or even the network, if they are not coherent with each other in full legislation. The fact that development needs are collected at municipal or even government level, although they have also decreased roughly significantly over the past period, who can and can be involved, so obviously all these aspects can appear in a small section of the sector. The National Regional Development Council has ceased or changed, the regions have been demoted, the counties have just been managed by the government as a direct joystick, the municipal level practically bled out, integrating the ideas of the civil society in terms of opinion creation and development, and, without harmonising all these developments, virtually the stories of the needs, whims and greed of the Fidesz clientship, which may appear in this plan, to then create a legal background for the public spending strategy that has been followed over the past seven years. It is a very, very big problem that, with regard to the agglomeration of Budapest, absolutely the parts related to the development of transport do not convert to a XXI. 100th century transport, which is now clearly covered by urban research, is how the transport of the agglomeration and the city as a whole can be organised in such a way as to bring it together to improve the quality of life. It is not apparent that their current concepts would help the viable capital to survive and create a safe livelihood for all those who have recently left the capital city in the agglomeration. If we leave the area of Lake Balaton and leave the area of the capital and usually do not speak from the part of the aforementioned development triangle, the Győr-Balaton-Budapest triangle, then it does not appear anywhere. [[In the notary seat István Szávay is replaced by István Ikotity.]] Here is Minister Sándor Fazekas, here is Mihály Varga from the Nagykunság region, the development aspects of Lake Tisza area, the road infrastructure and the restoration of rural infrastructure do not appear. This proposal would be eligible and acceptable in all respects if we could see what Fidesz-KDNP thinks of the country in 20 years' time and 30 years' time. Tell me, Secretary of State, how many people in settlements over 30,000 will live in 20 years, and how many 50 years from now. What's the plan? Which way are we going? To make proposals for action until they have set a target for where to go, and for the population that has remained either in the small settlements or in the settlements below 10 thousand, what basic needs they have to maintain in relation to centralisations of the past period, this is obviously an issue that should be resolved. Just this week I read in one of the national media on the website that the fact that there is no ATM everywhere is a problem in rural settlements. It's a typical example. If the development plan does not manage what services can be accessed, you will give a pensioner a voucher of HUF 10 000 to a pensioner in vain if he goes to a city where he can use it. They do not make the banking system mandatory if it is not in place and do not make it mandatory for basic services to be available in small settlements. The lack of all this is what is most reflected in this proposal, since it does not come together as a comprehensive concept. If you were to go in the direction that my colleague Mrs Loránt Hegedűs outlined, that sometimes we would strive for a five-party settlement not to be the scene of political battles and not to come with Garancsi in such legislation, then we could talk about the chances of these settlements in twenty years' time, how the current estate structure will help to stay in place, how this will be related or similar to other Western European countries, and how everything has an impact on the maintenance of natural resources on which the whole economy is based, as this will appear once again be a subordinate and marginal aspect. As long as it is possible to avoid the regulations in this regard... - and we could mention in particular the provision concerning Lake Balaton that the waterfront areas of Lake Balaton are within a distance of three hundred meters from the shoreline of Lake Balaton, an area where the use of coastal areas in the public interest is defined for a long time. The coastal areas of Lake Balaton are bordered by the Government Decree on the requirements for the use of areas on the shore of Lake Balaton. But what is the value of these lines if, while privatizing Lake Balaton, they give four hectares without any compensation to a luxury port? What's the point of doing Disneyland as a priority government investment with EU funds instead of going towards gentle, sustainable tourism and implementing even development plans for the whole region? On this basis, it appears that we are talking about a small salad, which will be included in the drawer, it will not be realized, because the current ad hoc interests will influence it, but in many cases the possibility of destruction will remain, the possibility of destruction will remain, and the public interest that public areas would create the protection of public property either in the agglomeration or in the area of the capital, pardons, in the area of Lake Balaton or in the rest of the country will be completely eroded. It continues to appear that unconventional development policy is mostly reflected in these territorial development efforts, there is no concrete need in the government to transform all of this into an organic whole and a secure national future. Obviously, there will be some time before the in-depth debates, but the direction that my good fellow Member has also said is that if this law could be discussed more thoroughly before the elections, there would be a chance that our group might be more positive, but so, although there are positive elements in it, there are a number of things that are seriously worrying, the proposal that we are proposing does not seem acceptable at the moment. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-12-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. From here it is possible to indicate an intention to speak by pressing a button. For a two-minute speech from the MSZP Group, Mr Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament, applied. Here you go.
u2017-12-12-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to express two very briefly. One is what my fellow Member, Gábor Harangozó, spoke about not only in the walls of Parliament today in connection with the hearing, but also last week in relation to another matter, which is about the type of process in lawmaking and legislation that seems to be being fired on in connection with certain stories. Here we can think or think about the development issues of Lake Balaton, and Siófok can be mentioned, the area around the Gold Coast and many other things, where, to some extent, processes of a kind have started according to our knowledge, which hopefully are not irreversible, are not irreversible, and we will not be confronted with decisions and opportunities for the benefit of some who may be within the framework of a lunar yard that cannot be regulated within the framework of this law, that is to say, they will not be subject to the law, and so, in an evasive way, we will be able to get to where they are virtually bypassed. We see this in other matters. With regard to the content of this draft law, there is also a connection that concerns the fact that, in some respects, constructions above 65 metres can not be carried out. [[14.10]] Of course, we are faced with the fact that, in the case of buddy-client companies belonging to the lunar yard, processes that provide for the possibility of building much higher structures. As a hundred words, I would like to say that it would be appropriate to legislate in such a way that it is not possible for some to allow anything before it, and then to enforce the laws in other respects. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[István Gábor Bellozó applauds.]]
u2017-12-12-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. We'll continue. For a proper speech from the LMP Group, Mr István Ikotity applied. Here you go.
u2017-12-12-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Previously, in the framework of the keynote speeches, my fellow Member Mr Róbert Sallai said all that our party's position on this plan before us. I would like to talk about a place, my hometown, Baja, in the context of what was said in the keynote speech, that this plan is such that it favours certain areas and that others are completely left out of circulation, and that it condemns it to a dissipation. As a Baja resident, as a Member of Parliament, I feel obliged to speak now. It is a settlement, my fellow Members, which is further away from its own county seat than the other three county seats in Hungary, the Szekszárd 60 kilometers away, the Pécs 80 kilometers away, the seat of the county of Bács-Kiskun, is 110 kilometers away from Baja. And I didn't even mention the cross-border Osijek or Zombie, which is also closer to Kecskemét. It's a city in this situation. And what I see in the national spatial planning plan, which lies before us, is that this settlement is once again at a disadvantage. You're not getting a chance to join the national bloodstream, the circulation of traffic. If you look at the fact that the M6 motorway is quite close, but there are very visible and different political promises, there is no living connection to this motorway. After all, two bridges lead to the highway, two bridges can be approached, but on roads that not only leave something to be desired, but also very bad roads. We're talking accident-dangerous, potty roads. These are roads that lead through national parks, flooded areas, and often when there is a flood, these roads are closed down. He's facing serious wild danger crossing this road. I'm thinking of Highway 55, if you'd like to approach Babasék. And if you choose the other road, a significantly new, smaller traffic bridge with almost insignificant traffic, and try to approach the M6 motorway from Baja on this road, you will find yourself facing the fact that the surrounding settlements, Ersekchanád and Sükond still do not have a bypass road, and because of this your approach is very bad, you have to pass through the villages very slowly. And it's a bad way to go. In this spatial planning plan, I see that he doesn't even have a dream, nor has the idea that this settlement should be connected to the motorway, with much better accessibility. I don't talk about two lanes twice, although it's really a good place to go, but give this settlement any normal access. I am speaking now on this matter, and I would like to ask this of Róbert Zsigó, who has been elected locally, to speak and represent the interests of his settlement; it is in the interests of not only Baja, but also of all the surrounding settlements, to improve this road link. I hope that this will happen. Obviously, there are many settlements in Hungary that are out of blood circulation in the same way and are condemned to disintegration. We are here, and we speak, and I spoke first for this city, my hometown, Baja, to change that. Think about it, and I would ask my fellow Members, who are in trouble to speak up and represent the interests of their troubles. Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2017-12-12-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Nándor Csepreghy, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-12-12-83	Thank you very much for the floor. On the one hand, allow me to thank Congressman Hörcsik for his support and also to respond to opposition speeches in a few points, in advance of the fact that, as with this type of legislative activity, we can also provide for a five-party consultation in this case, if the intention to use it as a basis for their professional proposal can indeed be taken seriously. It's just a few interrogations. Prior to this, Mr Harangozó asked about the Balaton issue and the problems of integration. Congressman, this is not the last four years, this is the problem of the last 27 years, how and to what extent Lake Balaton has been built in. If you read through the part of this regulation concerning Lake Balaton, then I think you can see from it the view that the public interest is the highest in relation to private interests. In the case of campsites, the same is true, since if you look at the rules on campsites, it clearly prohibits the construction of residential property in the campsites, and also calls for a very limited form of hospitality and hospitality, which is typical of the campsites, in the future operation. The bill, which is now before you, could be a barrier to this investment being carried out in this form, in connection with the authorisation of the port of Siófok. [[Gábor István bellozó: It is now licensed.]] Congressman, I can't pass a law sooner than Parliament can. On behalf of the Government, I therefore ask that you support this proposal. Congresswoman Hegedűs, I find it difficult to take your professional criticism seriously if you ask for a five-party consultation in what was said in the introduction, and then at the end, you will tell me, before any discussion, that Jobbik cannot support this. The government's intention to submit this bill is to close the Regional Development Act in essence. We make one out of three laws. And you are right about the fact that it has not been long since the adoption of the previous law, but I think that you are talking to any of the actors involved in the architecture society because of the inaccuracies of basic maps and the introduction of digital basic maps, which essentially creates the roof structure of the building we have created in the field of construction. In all other respects, he was asking for flexibility. The government follows the intention of simultaneously trying to create a legislative environment that is sufficiently flexible and understandable in terms of investment and, on the other hand, architectural, aesthetic and technically appropriate to the public interest, with aesthetic values. As I said earlier, we are open to five-party negotiations, as we have been open to so far. Mr Sallai mentioned a lack of coherence. I would like to draw your attention here to the fact that we are talking about amending the Law on Construction and amending and simplifying the Land Planning Act, and we are setting a clear direction. But the questions that Congressman has for us are not in this law. But if you ask what Fidesz plans for the countryside with Hungary, then the Fidesz plan for the countryside with Hungary is that the countryside must be more than the demographic and economic hinterland of Budapest and Western Europe. It is necessary to create an environment where Hungarian settlements can really develop in their own right. With regard to public services, we want 10 million citizens of Hungary, all citizens living in Hungary, to have access to public services of the same quality. In terms of market services, if there is a living area, we think that the market will be able to solve this. With regard to the draft law, I believe that all horizontal proposals that require answers to their questions in principle can be found in this proposal. Once again, on behalf of the government, I would like to say that we are open to five-party negotiations. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-12-12-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Listen, please, because it is important that amendments can be submitted on Friday 19 January 2018 at 2 p.m. on the basis of a derogation from the adopted house rules. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. I'd like two minutes of your time, just until I rearrange it, because there's been some changes, and I'm gonna have to manage them, too, so that I don't make any mistakes in driving this seat. [[14.20]] Thank you very much for your patience. For a post-meeting speech from the Fidesz Group, the Hungarian Government has applied for measures to improve the infrastructure of the Dunakess constituency. Mr Bence Tuzson. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-12-12-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dunakeszi, Fot, God, Csomad, Csömör, Erdőkertes and Veresegyház are a community that can be called a community of action. All settlements in this area are highlighted in terms of community organisation and related developments. There is a cooperation in these settlements that allows infrastructure improvements and that the Hungarian government, the Hungarian state, can also stand up and participate in infrastructure developments in addition to such cooperation. Therefore, developments that are of a national nature are very important, but are in the interest of these settlements. Because this type of development, you know, doesn't just promote industry. They will, of course, also help in many ways, because the economy is attractive, and in these areas various companies are settled, creating jobs, but on the other hand this will also help to improve the quality of life of families. If you can move faster, you can reach jobs, schools, kindergartens more quickly, then at the end of this you will have more time for families, and the most important thing is that Hungarian people can spend their time with families, develop families, strengthen themselves, and further strengthen Hungary. For Dunakeszi and Dunakeszi, for the Fótians, it is of paramount importance for the Gödians that the M2 road can be built, it can grow, it can widen, and now it can operate as a four-track route from 2019 to Vác, so it can serve the interests of the Gödians, Dunakeszi and the Fótians in quite a long stretch, and with more exits it can serve the interests of the Gödians, Dunakeszi and Fótians. Their old dream is realized for the Dunakes and the Gödians that the old road 2 and the M2 will be connected by a new road, a new connecting road, in the interest of these people. It will speed up transport and reduce traffic flows through settlements, making a great contribution to increasing the quality of life of people living there. It is important for the Gödians that the Samsung factory has recently settled there, and could open its doors again, which has also placed Göd on the world map of innovative businesses, but with the support of the Hungarian government there can be a major infrastructure development in Göd. This infrastructural development represents HUF 2 billion in support, which allows many streets to be renewed. Local public transport can also be renewed, and besides several small roads, the city as a whole can develop and continue to grow. From the point of view of the region, it is of great importance that the railway line started its operation here for the first time in Hungary in 1846. The first railroad used to be here. This development can continue with the fact that first-floor motor trains in Central Europe, which already have high capacity and speed up transport to Budapest, will take place here. Of course, there are many improvements not only in these two settlements, but also in several settlements. Allow me to list some without the need for completeness. It is also in the interests of the Fótians and the Mogyoróds, that a new node will be built out of nearly 5 billion forints on the M3 motorway with its connecting road, which makes it easier to get to these settlements, the traffic time will be shorter here, and the quality of life in this area, in these settlements, Foton, will also increase. The settlement will be easier to reach, and the proximity congestion is expected to decrease. Of course, faster transport is also important in small settlements. This is why it is of great importance that road development can take place in Csömör, as the 3rd Rét utca access road has also been completed in the past period, and Laki utca is being renovated, so there are major infrastructure improvements here as well. In Csomad, we handed over the Irvány Street a few days ago, which is of particular importance in the settlement, since it is also a road for relief of loads on Kossuth Lajos Street. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] a street that helps everyone who lives in the settlement. In addition, the renovation of Géza Street was carried out in Erdőkertése, and the renovation of Béke Street is also ongoing. [[Nándor Gúr: Mr President, time!]] These developments show that we are going in the right direction, the Hungarian economy is strengthening, and the settlements are also strengthening. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor.
u2017-12-12-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister Péter Szijjártó has indicated that he would like to respond to what has been said. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2017-12-12-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is a country with an open economy, whose performance is essentially determined by the external dimensions of the economy, including export opportunities for Hungarian companies and the performance of investments attracted to Hungary. When we discuss large companies' investments in Hungary, three things usually arise. The issue of the tax system, which has not been a question lately, given the fact that Europe's lowest taxes have to be paid here in Hungary, whether it is personal income tax or corporate tax. There is often a labour issue, which is undoubtedly a challenge. Today, Hungary and the Hungarian government are undoubtedly facing a better challenge than in 2010, when unemployment was 12.5 percent, and now 4.2 percent, which is virtually the same as full employment according to economic science books. And thirdly, the question of infrastructure arises; the question of infrastructure, which basically determines competitiveness, especially given the fact that today in the European economy, in the European industry, companies like to spend little on storage and storage, and they operate in the so-called just-in-time or just-in-sequence systems, which means that logistics and logistics are very important for almost minutes of accurate predictability. In order to attract foreign investors in infrastructure, Hungary will spend HUF 2500 billion in the coming years to build some 900 kilometres of motorways, motorways and motorways, which will bring us to a new dimension in terms of the development of the motorway network. In this context, the M2 motorway will be extended twice to two lanes on a 20-mile section, which has a budget of HUF 50 billion, and in the part of the left bank of the Danube north of Budapest, it will provide a new argument for the investment why it is worth bringing more and more investments there. Ladies and gentlemen, The automotive industry is the backbone of Hungary's economy. Today, the automotive industry is less about simple production, more about who will be able to develop and manufacture self-driving cars and who will be able to successfully carry out the research and development required for electromobility. However, electromobility requires not only electric cars, but also batteries in them. It is therefore of great importance that Samsung SDI, one of the world's largest electric car battery companies, has brought Gödre to one of its European production centres, where batteries for electric cars will be produced, essentially for the Western European market. 600 new jobs will be created through a HUF 100 billion investment. I would like to inform you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that we are now conducting advanced negotiations on the second stage of investment. There has been a very serious regional competition for the first stage of investment, and it will, of course, also take place for the second stage of investment. Overall, it can be said that thousands of jobs have been created in the last four years in the framework of a conscious economic policy concept in Dunakeszin, Gödön, Foton and its surroundings. Of course, these large investments must also be followed up by infrastructure developments. If this does not happen, it is partly annoying the locals and, on the other hand, unpredictable production. [[14.30]] Therefore, according to the agreement with the city of Göd, a HUF 5.7 billion development programme is being implemented, in which partly the road renovations presented by the Secretary of State, Member, are being carried out, of which perhaps the most important one is the establishment of a new link road between the northern hub of the motorway M2 and the main road No.2, with a budget of HUF 3.77 billion, and it is planned to be possible to use this route from the second quarter of 2019. In view of all this, I can tell you that on the section of the left bank of the Danube north of Budapest to Vác, another argument will be put into the hands of companies looking for new investment sites. Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your cooperation in this respect, without the work of the Secretary of State, we could not have successfully completed the first phase negotiations necessary for Samsung's investment. Thank you very much.
u2017-12-12-88	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, The role and impact of the Hungarian-Slovenian bilateral agreements on the life of Slovenian ethnicity, by Mrs Erika Kissné Köles, Slovenian ethnicity spokesperson. There you go. You have the floor.
u2017-12-12-89	Hvala za besedo, gospod Predsednik! Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Spoštovani Gospod Predsednik, spoštovane gospod Minister, Poslanke in Poslanci, Zagovornice in Zagovorniki! Mr President, Dear Minister, Congresswoman and Lords, fellow Speakers! Prisrčno pozdravljam vse vas, ki ste na današnji zadnji seji vstrajno počakali moj govor. I would like to welcome you all, who have waited for me to speak after today's agenda. The role and impact of the Hungarian-Slovenian bilateral agreements on the life of Slovenian nationality gave the topicality of my speech to the 25th anniversary of the signing of the Hungarian national community living in the Republic of Slovenia and the Convention on the Special Rights of the Slovenian National Minority in the Republic of Hungary. It is worth remembering, and there is reason to remember the signature of the document, which, although at the beginning, changed at a slower pace and during the last 5-7 years, has improved the situation of the Slovenian community in Hungary, its reputation, moral and financial support from the government, politics and society as a whole. Slovenia, our mother country's intense interest, moral and financial support and professional support also help our work in a number of areas. The globalisation aspirations of this time, not of political will today, but rather of economic opportunities, livelihoods and residence, bring about the unwanted assimilation that cannot be stopped alone without our country and our mother country's specific attention. The Slovenian national minority in Hungary and the agreement on the granting of special rights to the Hungarian national community living in the Republic of Slovenia were concluded between the two young democratic states of Central Europe, undergoing major political social transformation, which were new and unique in its kind, and the importance of which we, as well as those concerned, were truly recognized at the time of the 25-year balance sheet. For the Slovenian nationality in Hungary, but I am convinced that the Hungarian community in Slovenia was also the cause of a number of positive changes. The focus of the document of 17 articles will be on helping minorities and their persons to preserve their own culture, language and identity. This also required the establishment of nationality organisations, educational and cultural institutions and media, as set out in the Framework Convention. Today, we can say that according to the laws of Hungary, our national and municipal minority self-governments, many of our cultural groups and civil society organisations work to strengthen our consciousness, maintain our culture and language. It is the result of many colloquial decisions that I can speak to you today as a Slovenian minority spokesperson for the National Assembly. The existence of the legal institution of spokesperson in Hungary coincides with Article 9 of the Minority Framework Convention, which was signed in 1992. However, we have an important task ahead of us in the future. The planned and conscious development of Rába's economy and transport infrastructure, which was inhabited by the Slovenians in Hungary, guaranteeing our young people a safe livelihood in order to maintain our only long-term solution. We expect strong and swift support from both our government and Slovenia. Tourism, tourism is our development target area. The large amount of government support to the Baroque church in Szentgotthárd, in addition to the increase in church values, will also significantly help this, which I thank you for. The interstate political and diplomatic relations between Hungary and Slovenia are exemplary. The public-law dignitaries, state leaders and political public figures of the two countries prove this through regular meetings, often located in areas inhabited by nationalities, the Slovenian Rába region in Hungary, so there are meetings for us and for us. I hope that this good partnership between the two states and their ethnic communities will remain unbroken for a long time. I wish you blessed, graciously rich Christmas holidays and a happy, successful year of 2018. Blagoslovljene, milosti polne božične svetke ter srečno, miru in uspehov bogato leto 2018 Vam želim. Thank you for listening. Hvala za posornost!
u2017-12-12-90	Thank you very much, Madam Speaker. On behalf of the Government, Minister Péter Szijjártó asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2017-12-12-91	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Speaker Woman, Ladies and gentlemen, On the bilateral relations between Hungary and Slovenia, I think we can say without exaggerating that they have never been as good as they are now. There is no open political issue that makes cooperation difficult between the two countries. At the last summit of the two governments, he made the necessary decisions to improve the system of interconnections between the two countries. On the agenda, there is the establishment of an electricity pipeline link between Hévíz-Cirkovce, for which only a few legal issues in Slovenia need to be clarified. Together, we have applied for the inclusion of an interconnector linking the gas pipeline systems of the two countries on the European Union's flagship investment list. We are working to ensure that two lanes between the two capitals can be taken without interruption, and in the next year we will open two new border crossing points at the border of the two countries, Lendvadedes and Orfalu. Dear Speaker Woman, Last year we were able to hand over the Budapest-Koper railway line, which has been electrified all along. Koper is the number one port of Hungarian companies. During the previous item on the agenda, I could talk about what it means to have an open economy in Hungary. Well, for the export performance of Hungarian companies, the port in Koper - as the port used as the number one port - plays an extremely important role. Of course, our cultural cooperation will not be behind infrastructure and economic cooperation next year. Next year, Hungary will be the guest of honor of the International Book Fair in Ljubljana, where we will translate the work of several Hungarian authors, translate them into Slovenian, and publish them in the period of the book fair. Dear Speaker Woman, I think that the joint success of the two countries is that this year we were able to launch the economic development programme in Muravid region, whose second tender rate was announced in November, and for which HUF 500 million was approved by the Hungarian budget, so much money can be provided to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in the region for development. The two countries see minorities as a resource, we see minorities as being connected, and not as separating us. Unfortunately, not all of our neighbours have the correct treatment of the Hungarian ethnic community as in Slovenia. We signed three important agreements 25 years ago: in September 1992 on cultural, educational and scientific cooperation between the two countries, in November 1992 on cooperation between the two countries on the rights to national minorities, and in December 1992 on the treaty of friendship and cooperation. We are celebrating practically the 25th anniversary of all these treaties. [[14.40]] Under the Intergovernmental Agreement on Minorities, the Joint Minority Committee was established, which held 17 meetings in 25 years. After each meeting, the minutes were adopted jointly and signed, which were subsequently published by governments in decisions, followed by the establishment and implementation of action plans. The Slovenian minority is a respected part of Hungarian society in Hungary. The annual support of the National Government of Slovenia has increased several times compared to 2010. Then the municipality received HUF 75 million for operating aid, almost three times this year, HUF 201 million. It is important that a European territorial association named MURABA was established, which was also registered in July. With the Ministry of Human Resources, the municipality managed to conclude the five-year grant agreement that allowed the educational institutions maintained by the Slovenian National Government to switch to predictable operations, including the Kossics József Bilingual Primary School and Kindergarten, the Bilingual Primary School and Kindergarten in Apátistvánfalvi, the Slovenian Radio, the Kühár Memorial House and the Slovenian Landscape. Since the basic support would not be enough for their operation, the government provides HUF 540 thousand per person per year under the agreement with the EMMI. It was our pleasure that we could also contribute to the renovation of the Church of the Lady of Szentgotthárd. Thank you very much for your good wishes, Mrs. Speaker. We wish for similar things, and we hope that next year we will be able to surpass this year's year of success in Hungary and Slovenia's relations system. Thank you so much for bringing this up here in the House of Parliament.
u2017-12-12-92	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Hungarian Handprints Mónika Bartos, from the Fidesz Group, with the title "Ibér-America" applied for a speech after the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-12-12-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! Speaking Ladies and Gentlemen! In the face of the challenges of our increasingly rushing and almost fundamentally changing world, we often have to draw strength to the struggles of everyday life, but this strength can be found in ourselves, beyond the grace of providence. No one can raise our heads, no one can keep us if we do not believe that we are able and worthy of survival. If we don't believe in ourselves, we don't believe in our future, we're lost. But the Creator has given us a strange way. During our history, we have been brought to dust over and over again to recover from it with renewed spirit and stamina, thus setting an example for other nations. With the power of starting over, we not only strengthened ourselves but also enriched others wherever life took us. The creative power of Hungarians is reflected in the values and handprints that I often face as head of the Hungarian-Latin-American and Hungarian-Spanish Friendly Department, which our countrymen have burned away in the pages of the history of their new country, often in a fate-changing way in the life of the community there. These handprints exist, they work, they work, they work, whether known or unknown. They burned through the everyday life of remote communities into the collective consciousness of the people there, but these handprints are special, because they can not only reverse the fate of the distant new hazai, but also discovering ours, the Hungarians living today. Our modern world often suggests that those who are connected, who belong to somewhere will be a loser, that the community will not support us - and the opposite is true. The house built on sand is collapsing, people without ties and connections are vulnerable and vulnerable. It's the community that keeps me. It is belonging to somewhere that strengthens, wherever life takes us, whatever challenge we have to endure, but self-knowledge is one of the prerequisites. We need to know ourselves, know the community we belong to, know who we really are, what we are capable of. We had a special time and spatial adventure on 8 December in the Parliament's meeting room in Felsőháza, an adventure in which we discovered the Hungarian handprints of the Tibetan-American, the ones we can be proud of, with which we enriched other countries that connect us not only with the Hungarians there, but also with Spain, Portugal, the Latin American and Caribbean countries. In this adventure, we were helped by young ambassadors who wanted to learn about these intellectual, material and cultural values created by the Hungarians. Our performers were high school students from many, often very distant parts of the country. I would like to thank the young people, their preparatory teachers and their school for helping us discover Hungarian handprints together. Please allow me to mention the institutions participating in the event: Bolyai János Grammar School, Kecskemét; Corvin Mátyás High School, Budapest; Gödöllő Reformed Líceum High School; Illyés Gyula High School, Budaörs; Károlyi Mihály Hungarian-Spanyol Secondary School, Budapest; Kőrösi Csoma Sándor Primary School and High School, Budapest; Szentgotthárd és Érde School Vörösmarty Mihály High School, Szentgotthárd; Szerb Antal High School, Budapest; Tamási Áron Primary School and German Bilingual National School, Budapest; Varga Katalin High School, Szolnok; Verseghy Ferenc Gramnázium; Szolnok; Vetési Albert High School, Veszprém. But we do not just need to get caught up in the past when we talk about Hungarian handprints. We make a big mistake if we think that all of this has happened because it is happening today. I would like to thank the university workshops on the regions for their work in the current networking process and for giving us an insight into the everyday life of this construction at the conference. Thanks to the Institutes and Research Centres of the Corvinus University of Budapest, Eötvös Loránd University, University of Pécs, University of Szeged. This conference was about us, but a little unconventional. The handprints that are no longer just our values, but our shared treasures with others. The presentation of Hungarian values created in the countries of Latin America and Siberia not only strengthens our relations, but also serves the greater appreciation of our nation, both in the eyes of others and in the eyes of ourselves. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-12-12-94	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Minister Péter Szijjártó asked for the floor on the floor after the agenda. Here you go.
u2017-12-12-95	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen, You said that we live in a constantly changing, rushing world. We in foreign policy say that a new world order has been created, one of the features of a new world order is that previously areas that are not particularly high in terms of competitiveness are becoming increasingly competitive, rapidly evolving, emerging regions and often preempt regions in a more favourable situation. That is how Latin America is, which is not an accident in the focus of international investors, large international companies. It is a pleasure for us that Parliament is so active, and you personally take such a proactive role in the promotion of the Siberian American region, as well as in the best possible foundation for Hungarian cooperation in Latin America.In 2015, the Government of Hungary announced the Southern Opening Strategy, one of the focus of which is the broadest possible development of our Latin American relationship system, recognizing that both the European Union and the large western investors and the investors in the Far East are paying ever more serious attention to the processes in this region of the world. We have opened five new representations in Latin America since 2015. We also opened our embassy in Ecuador and reopened our embassy in Colombia, Chile, Peru and the Consulate General in São Paulo, and in return we received news just recently that Colombia and Peru are jointly opening an embassy here in Budapest. In 2015 and 16 we were able to measure an overall 2.5 percent increase in trade flows between Hungary and Latin America. However, in the first eight months of 2017, political networking processes appear to be in place, and our exports have increased by 49 percent in the countries of the Latin American region in eight months. [[14.50]] This has happened with an amazing international competition for these economic opportunities, by the way. I have had a number of opportunities to negotiate with Latin American political leaders, foreign ministers and foreign minister colleagues, and the region's openness to Hungary is clear. It is clear that Hungary's achievements are recognised and that there is a value to genuine, non- hypocrite politics in that region of the world. However, because we are talking about a geographically remote place, and if we give economic focus to cooperation, we need to be well focused, focused, and we need to choose effectively the sectors where we can be effective. This opens up opportunities in the fields of water management, IT and sustainable urban planning, as well as in the pharmaceutical industry, where we can help Hungarian companies to succeed in the market. In addition, of course, we cannot forget the humanitarian aspect: Latin America is a region that is often affected by extreme weather phenomena, so after such natural disasters over the past period, Peru and Cuba have been offered and delivered water treatment facilities that provide drinking water to several municipalities in both countries. At the same time, since, once again, we are talking about a remote area, the relationship between people can form the basis for good economic cooperation. This is why the Brazilian government's programme of science without borders was important, in which between 2013 and 2016, some 2,300 students studied in Hungary, and now more than 400 scholarship students are studying in Hungary as part of the scholarship programmes announced by the Hungarian government from the Latin American region. For the third time this year, the Hungarian-Latin-America Forum was held in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the main guest of which was Colombia's Foreign Minister. Now there was the greatest interest, most participants at this event, and it is no coincidence that the conference held the title of "Knowledge and Development - Investing in the Future." You are absolutely right, honourable Member, the Hungarian communities in Latin America offer a special bond and a special opportunity for cooperation between Hungary and the Latin American region. There is a significant Hungarian national community in Brazil, Argentina and Venezuela, with whom we are in contact, and for whom we will help them to remain Hungarian in the face of the challenges of the new world. Thank you again for the conference that you organised and thank you for promoting cooperation between Hungary and Latin America.
u2017-12-12-96	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, From the group of the MSZP, Mr Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament, has applied for a speech after the agenda. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2017-12-12-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So by the end of the year, I would like to account for a negative process, just because I want this trend to be broken and a change to be made. As a result of seven-year policy and economic policy, the population of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county decreased by 4.5 percent. That's about a 31,000 drop in county. This means that the population of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County can run out at this rate in a century. What is even more terrible about this is that the 15-64-year-old is an active age group, and in particular the 20-40-year-olds are the ones who moved the most, because they looked elsewhere for their living space. In the meantime, the number of enterprises, the number of farming organisations, has also decreased. It is possible to draw a picture of employment policy, unemployment statistics, as if it were better, we have heard from the Minister. It's worth telling the truth and the truth. It means that these statistical figures, on the one hand, result from a multitude of departures abroad, hundreds of thousands of thousands of thousands of them, from public employment, student employment and many other things that we say 8 years ago, were not included in the statistics in this way. In terms of public employment, where people received more than 60,000 forints net in 2010, there was a HUF 47,000 ignominious net amount that you offered them, and then today 54 thousand forints. 54,000 forints is the net amount these people take in. In Abaúj, Sajószentpéter, Kazincbarcika, but in Edelény or anywhere else, within the framework of the complexly disadvantaged small regions, people live from this or even less. In this way, it is worth thinking about how the hell to make a living from 30-40-50 thousand forints. I think that if the government feels a little responsibility in this regard, then it must bring about fundamental changes in the coming period, even in these 3-4 months, which will be ahead of us until the elections. You know, the terrible thing is that based on Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, but I could say Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, Nógrád County and other counties, statistically beautiful numbers can be shown. With regard to declared posts, it can be shown as if the situation were up-to-date, but I would like to point out that 79 percent of these job offers and four fifths of them appear in terms of public employment. Seventy-nine percent. The 15 percent is just what comes from the primary labour market, and the remaining 5 percent are made up of student employment. So it's not that rosy. In terms of salaries? Where Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, Nógrád county, and I could say other counties, where people earn 30-40 percent less for the same work than in other, more favourable areas of the country, this creates a difficult life situation. In Abaúj, Exchange or the Inner Zemplén, where people live from 35-40 thousand forints per person per month, Christmas is not as bright as others think. For a butcher, if he drops 20,000, it is not worth bowing down to him, because by the time he picks it up and pockets it, he would have consumed more energy in those few seconds compared to his wealth. These people live on that kind of money in a given month. So what I want to say is that where and where such humiliating wages are paid in terms of public employment, which is not even the minimum of living, they are taking some HUF 120-130 billion away from these people, because they do not receive the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, there is something to change. Well, at Christmas, all I can say is that this needs to be changed fundamentally and very quickly. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-12-12-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Készép, of the independent Members, has applied for a post-meeting speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-12-12-99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You left out the address of my speech for some reason. Its address is that. Home is for sale, or Rogán Antal, implementing the Orbán plan, has installed 20,000 migrants in Hungary. Well, thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I have to tell you that sometimes I find it exaggeration that my opposition colleagues criticize the prominents of the ruling party and their oligarchy army for their luxurious lifestyle and their arrogance to the country. For some time now, the greasy moonyard, which has been standing alongside the government through fire and water, has grumbled only from a distance, because they do not like the spectacular lifestyle of the new privileged layer, the hypergrowth of Tesla's rockets. But they wouldn't be so squeamish if they had read Viktor Orbán's statements in the past. The Prime Minister told us years ago that Hungary does not have colonies, we have no mineral resources, we have secret resources, we only have what we build and we invent. [[15.00]] And indeed. Those who believe that only the full redistribution of national wealth, the exchange of elites based on party membership and other revolutionary changes can sustain the new, increasingly hungry ruling layer of the Orbán system. The new aristocracy of 200 years of family wealth needs creative ideas. It is not enough to steal the money of hospitals through congo stadiums, or to burn the Hungarians' assets along other insane plans, or to put them in adequate domestic or foreign bank deposits. We need new methods, because instead of BKV, regular helicopter and special jet transport, the macao poker party, the Swiss villa, the diamond auction, and even the luxurious party in Ibiza are not cheap, where this new, privileged layer goes to rest or work. This way of life must be enhanced as long as our country can remain outside the European Public Prosecutor's Office and the Hungarian Supreme Prosecutor's Office can function as a legal department of Fidesz. Therefore, the idea of a settlement policy has proved to be useful for the interests of Antal Rogán, Minister of Propaganda, his business partners and his friends. It is possible to cremate, but the sum of 100 billion forints has been reduced by the idea of smart lawyers over the night, and even by the agreement of the Prime Minister and the responsibility that is hoped not to lapse. Of course, the story reeks of every element of the Rogán political family keeps popping up. The kitchen money until 2100 would be enough for every Rogán-neighborhood patriot, but there is a little problem here that has not been discussed in the main Sotyola VIP box. It is not that the Hungarian state has fallen enormously because it paid too high interest on the settlement bonds; the loss is HUF 20 billion. This loss in the government of Orbán is almost small, since every month something is scattered over some kind of concrete colossus. The problem here is completely different. Because for years there has been a monstre campaign against refugees, immigration and the European Union, instead of spending on health and education. The Ministry of Rogán and the entire state organization have been saying for years that they are not asking for the installation of 1200 people, because, of course, the Hungarian opposition and civilians are working on this. And then they quietly installed about 20,000 immigrants through Antal Rogán's uniquely developed residency bond program. This means that the Cabinet has allowed fifteen times as many immigrants as the European Union has requested from our country in the framework of a one-off transfer. It is also a fact that the ownership of intermediary companies is opaque, and the state has done everything it can to never know who the real beneficiaries are, but it is clear that it is the Rogán-Habony interest circle. There was no control of the intermediary companies either. Why? Even more serious risk is that this Fidesz bombing business has created a huge national security risk for our country and Europe. In such a short period of time, 20,000 people could not have been screened for national security, public security and anything else. We need their money, we know it's anyone's. But at all costs? Does it really matter to Antal Rogán and Viktor Orbán? Is it okay to smuggle people if it's official? As the Magyar Nemzet wrote, with the purchase of a EUR 300,000 bond, which could be obtained at a third price of EUR 125 thousand, eight immigrants could obtain residence permits in Hungary. In this case, we had to pay HUF 4.8 million each for the settlement, meaning that it is hardly possible to call the bonded immigrants rich investors. So often, smugglers also have to pay for refugees. But what will the Minister of Propaganda Rogán say if there is a terrorist act committed in Europe by a settlement bonder? Are you going to take responsibility for that? Then what will it do to us and you? Thank you very much. [[Nándor Gúr applauds.]]
u2017-12-12-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Among the speakers, Félix Farkas applied for a post-meeting speech on Roma ethnicity... [[Zoltan is ready to interrupt.]] - My fellow Members. [[Noise.]] Fellow Members! -... roma nationalism spokesperson:.. The current state of public education. Here you go, Mr. Speaker. You have the floor.
u2017-12-12-101	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I must speak on behalf of the Roma nationality against many criticisms of the government's activities in the field of public education. We are grateful that the current government is not using the idea of equal opportunities as propaganda, the concept of catching up, but is taking real steps and creating serious opportunities for us Roma for integration. My position is that the most important key to integration is in education, so that Roma children can learn. In my opinion, there has never been so much government support in public education in this country as there is today. And I'm not talking about feelings, I'm talking about facts. å Secure start of the child's house works with the contribution of the central budget. There is certainly no need to explain the importance of this for Roma young children and their parents. Kindergarten education. It is clear that it has a major role to play in preventing schooling and educational difficulties for Roma children from the age of three to participate in kindergarten education. This will help to facilitate later school barriers and, ultimately, will move catching up. Textbook support. Clearly, it is a huge help for the needy groups, including the Roma, that young students now receive textbooks free of charge. The meal. I will mention in this section the provision of a three-day free meal for children in need, which is clear that it will remove a great burden from the shoulders of many Roma families. We can also talk about scholarship programmes, as there is the Travel Scholarship Program, the Travel to the High School, the Travel to the Graduate, the Travel to the Profession, the Travel to the Graduate. Among all the scholarships, most of the supported students, I proudly say, come from Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County and Szabolcs-Szatmár County. There is the János Arany program; János Arany is a college program designed to prevent early school leaving. The programmes to prevent early school leaving of Roma girls, the school programmes, are powerful. At least as important is the opportunity offered by the programmes of second chance for Roma, in which hundreds of disadvantaged young people who have graduated from secondary school have completed their education. Or we can talk about the Christian Roma community network. As far as I know, in the academic year 2016-2017 more than two hundred and fifty students are already members of the professional college network, significantly helping them to stand their ground in higher education. And speaking of higher education, I have to say that the share of Roma youth in higher education has more than tripled over the last six years, thanks to this government. It is more than symbolic for us Roma to see nationalities, including Roma and Gypsies, appear in the National Basic School. Once again, I thank the government and the professional wallet for their commitment to catching up with Roma nationality in support and programmes that are of great help. As Rome's leader, I'm trying to make sure that our young people recognize the opportunities we have created and make the most of them. I hope that the established educational strategy for catching up will be sustainable in the long term and will bring further results. As Christmas approaches, I would like to wish you all a peaceful, merry Christmas. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-12-12-102	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, How much longer? Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, asked to speak after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-12-12-103	Mr President, Dear House, During the last parliamentary meeting of the year, I also received the question, "Why am I not counting the number of the "" How much longer?" The features of my series on the fate of those injured in foreign currency loans. Well, the reason I don't count it is because, apparently, in this government cycle, we are talking about an endless story, where there is neither a serial number nor a ranking, nor the tragic human fates that we cannot talk about enough. [[15.10]] If we are familiar with the world of government communication, then we find that it goes perfectly against the Hungarian reality, because while according to government communication, foreign exchange credit victims are in a significantly better position than they were years ago, we see that the debt management now has hundreds and then thousands of families, and unfortunately, the number of evicted was clearly and in scale higher than it was two years ago. This year, according to reports published the other day, 3600 non-paying debtors have been released from their homes by executives, which is amazing data, and we have brought a number of cases here in Parliament that prove that in many cases the executives have acted in an absolute illegal way, making claims that they would not have had the right to do if necessary. We are in the era of the eviction moratorium, which has climate reasons on the one hand, and the government does not want evictions to take place before the elections, but let us not forget that, while the eviction moratorium in principle - I stress, in principle - exists, because in the meantime evacuations, auctions and other kinds of executions are not visible at all, so it is expected that a large number of nearly 30 000 real estates will appear in auctions from month to month will eventually show a huge, drastic increase. And if we compare this with the fact that there are still over 100 thousand people whose debts are already on the line and categorized over 90 days, we can say that they are facing very long months after the elections that will be faced with the end of the eviction moratorium. It should also serve as a warning sign that in the third quarter more than 2,900 apartments have been forced to sell in Hungary because of the non-compliance with mortgage credit; let us not mention how many retail credit contracts are unable to pay off Hungarian citizenship, since in many cases the background of the so-called claim, to say the least, is flawed. It can also be seen that debts to public utility companies with a foreign currency background excite each other, overlap, where appropriate because of the lack of legal claims, or precisely because of their fulfilment, the citizen is lagging behind elsewhere, say, to a public utility company, or is unable to pay his common cost. So it seems that we should draw a line, give people who have been fighting this trap for years, and it is not certain that the government's law of accounting or the law of forinting would have been suitable for anything in the area of directing. We still don't know on what basis the so-called credit facility of the credit victims was HUF 256 at the market rate, while these so-called loans were typically received at HUF 150-155-160. We do not even know on what basis the discount rate of 180 HUF for a very short period of time was granted to some lucky people. We do not regret the possibility of a solution, but the possibility of a solution must be extended to all stakeholders. It's still not too late. And when we wish each other a merry Christmas here in the House, we wish each other a blessed, peaceful holiday period, hearts full of love for tuning, absolutely rightfully - and we say this frankly - to those who may not necessarily have something to do under the tree, and who should have such a difficult soul to get through this Christmas period, along with the Advent period, which is unworthy of putting in the prospect of decent living opportunities of a Hungarian family, what they should be looking forward to in a normal country. So we need to give these families life opportunities. Not aid, not a lifeline, justice must be done for them. This could be done in a way above the parties, even now, at the last moment, and if this does not happen in this government cycle, we will have one of our first tasks in this area after the establishment of the Jobbik government. Until then, I can only wish a blessed, peaceful Christmas to all concerned and, of course, to bear this period more easily than objective circumstances would allow them to do. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-12-12-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. And the Aryan of Time doesn't flow back to Jobbik's Group, Mr. István Szávay, notary of the Parliament [[István Szávay: Dear House! Ladies and gentlemen,]] It's next. I just gave you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-12-12-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Before I begin, I would like to congratulate Felix Farkas, the advocate of the greatest nationality in Hungary, for speaking after three and a half years; it is a pity that he did not write his own speech, but was sent to him from the propaganda museum. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, And it doesn't go back to the time, and this quote by János Arany was read at the central ceremony on 15 March 2002 on the molina on the facade of the National Museum. The message was clear and clear: the Communists must not be allowed to return to power in the soon-to-be elections. At the time, I listened to Viktor Orbán's festive speech on the spot as a university youth with several of myself. At the time, it was clear to everyone that turning to the past was the MSZP, while European, civil, XXI. The future leading to the century is embodied by the young and dynamic prime minister and the leader of Fidesz. Ladies and gentlemen, if any of you are still here, Fidesz is now on the other side of the barricade. Today, the Fidesz shows millions of people with a past based on vile lies and hatred that seeks to deepen and widen social conflicts for political reasons. Fidesz MEPs today are not the leaders of democracy, but of the new dictatorship. The dictatorship which tries to silence opposition voices by all means should come from a political party, from any representative of the press or from a simple citizen. For indeed, Dezső Sulyok, the attempt to unfold after World War II, in the words of the prominent leader of national democracy:, it is not true that there is a stir in Hungary; there is silence here and quiet, but just not the usual and kind silence of the pace of life, but the silence of fear and terror. Dear fellow Members, Dezső Sulyok experienced the establishment of the dictatorship, he said the aforementioned sentence in June 1947, when the Communists prevented him from running for office in the elections in August. Unfortunately, you can't miss the parallel between what happened at the time and what happened now. At that time, the Hungarian Communist Party and Mátyás Rákosi worked with harder tools, but they worked for similar goals as now Fidesz and Viktor Orbán: total expropriation of power and building a party state. In 1946, László Rajk struck a fatal blow to civil society organisations by branding hundreds of them unjustly fascists and banning them. You now demonize the civil sphere in the same way, and make the self-sacrifice of thousands of decent people impossible, while putting an entire university in an impossible position overnight, without any prior consultation or trial, for purely political reasons. At that time, hundreds of thousands of people were excluded from voting rights by B-listing and other methods because they assumed they wouldn't vote for the left-wing block parties. You are now excluding from the election our fellow citizens working abroad, who have been forced to leave the country precisely because of Fidesz' failed policy. At the time, ÁVO systematically beat up or drowned in scandal the campaign meetings of opposition parties. Today, the public media announces the commemoration of Jobbik on October 23, where a fight broke out during Gábor Vona's speech, even before he even stepped on the stage. Then they used a blue tag to commit election fraud in the order of 100,000, and now they're gonna be able to vote on behalf of dead people across the border. Then the Communists infiltrated the opposition parties and disintegrated them from within as a fifth column. Now we know since László Botka's resignation that the left-wing parties have been covered by the fidesz octopus. At that time, the Communists prevented genuine opposition parties from creating independent press and appearing in the public media. Thus, only the representative of the Party of Liberty, who was the main opponent of the Communists, could not say the program of his party during the election of 1947. Today, you have bought almost the entire rural press, while Jobbiko is hermetically disqualified from the public media, and you only tell a lot of lies about us. And finally, when that wasn't enough, the Rákosi prevented their main opponent, Dezső Sulyok, from running in the elections. Now you want to do the same with the only power of government that can replace you, the Jobbik. You're not gonna make it. The attempt to make Jobbik impossible has long been more than just about us. Now they want to crush us, and next time they'll have others, and then eventually everyone who opposes the Fidesz party state doesn't want Hungary to fall back on XX. The dictatorships of the century. That is why we call and wait for everyone regardless of party standing from 17:00 on Friday to the Fidesz Lendvay Street headquarters to put faith in democracy and freedom at a torched demonstration. I would like to send a message in the words of German theologian Martin Niemöller to all those who do not sympathize with Jobbik, but do not want a new dictatorship, to build a new party state in Hungary:. First they came for the Jews, and I did not speak because I am not Jewish. Then they came for the Communists, and I didn't say anything because I'm not a Communist. Then they came for the union guys, and I didn't tell them because I'm not a union guy. Then they came for me, and there was no one left to tell me. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-12-12-106	Congressman, I consider your comment on the Wolf Felix to be unworthy of you, so I apologise to Mr Félix Wolf. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Free expression!]] After the agenda, Mr István Ikotity of the LMP Group applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[15.20]]
u2017-12-12-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In my last speech this year, I would like to share some thoughts about my home town, my residence, Baja, and ask my fellow Members to help and support this city, the initiatives of this city. I would like to begin with a quote: I feel that this visit costs me dearly, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said on May 16, 2015, when he handed over a bicycle bridge built from HUF 650 million. He went on to say: "Thank you for trusting us since 1998, each time elected as a representative of Róbert Zsigó. Five cycles, 20 years. These days, perseverance, loyalty is a big deal. Condition: what we promise each other must be kept. Several improvements were mentioned today, "he said," said the hospital in Baja, but there was also a 50-metre swimming pool, a four-track road from Ba to the highway, and a bypass road. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Let us see what has been achieved from these promises two years ago. Today we were discussing the national spatial planning plan, and you can see from this that the latest accepted version does not include a two-track road, which would connect Baja to the motorway, but no road development. The fastest way to reach the highway from Baja is through a dangerous, flooded, potty, national park, just as the bypass roads have not been completed in any other direction. The 50-meter swimming pool wasn't built in Baja, even though the first hoop cuts weren't made in connection with the fact that one of the world's best swimmers, Katinka Long's troubles, was born and raised in trouble. He learned to swim and train in that 25 - meter swimming pool for a long time, which is 40 years old, and obviously a small swimming pool in bad condition compared to a city this size. We could make a list of developments. In 2015, when the Viktor Orbán speech quoted by me was said, I collected that HUF 4.5 billion was spent on various developments. There was a high wall reinforcement, which was quite useless, because it was very poorly implemented, it was done on the basis of very poor planning, because it did not realize the original intention, which would have been to protect the side of Sugovica, the Danube, so that this side of the area could be broken. Of these 4.5 billion forints, of which tourism developments were still realised, only five jobs were created. Out of 4.5 billion forints, only five jobs, and then we wonder where Baja is, we are surprised that its population has decreased by 10 percent since 2000 and the proportion of young people has decreased by 25 percent. The proportion of young people living in Baja has decreased from 4,000 to 3,000, and this is obviously forecasting the future of the city. Jobs have not been expanded. The downfall of sports. Imagine a city, which, as I said, is very far from every county seat, and it would really deserve a county-righted city title, but it didn't get that rank. Looking around this city's sport, it's practically because of the good intentions of some big entrepreneurs. If you only look at football, you can see that, not only in NB I, NB II, but also at county level, the city's football team can only play in the lowest class, it is left to itself at that level, there is no sport at that level. The Baja College is the country's last country college, and all the other university titles have been awarded, but we can't be surprised at that, since it has about 300 students only now. This city's getting deeper and deeper. It's getting worse. I would also ask my fellow Members and the Member of Parliament, Robert Zsigó, who has not been present, who has been representing the city for 20 years, to do more for the city, to help this city. I collected it; if you were to guess how many times he spoke in favour of Baja, you would be mistaken: in twenty years he managed to do so only two times - so we should not be surprised that we are here. Mr President, thank you for the floor. Allow me to wish you a happy, peaceful, blessed Christmas and a happy New Year as your last speaker. Thank you.
u2017-12-12-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. Looks like the last minute the campaign just broke into this place after the schedule. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the Parliament is expected to take place in February. I thank you for your year-round work. I wish all my fellow Members, the minority advocates, the staff of the Parliamentary Office and all those who have followed our work, blessed, peaceful, graceful holidays, a full new year and a good rest in results! The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 5:26 p.m.]]
