u2017-03-07-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 6th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the leadership of this meeting, notary Attila Gelencsér and István Ikotity. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, from the LMP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. The majority of the government would continue to cover for corrupt politicians. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2017-03-07-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, it has become clear to everyone outside the governing parties that declarations of assets based on political self-restraint are worthless. There is no year when forgotten property, forgotten square meters, hidden vacation homes, or hundreds of millions of liars without any consequences. Today, the property declaration system is not a proof of transparency, but a disillusioning certificate of corrupt, arrogant political elite. Whoever participates in the maintenance of the current declaration of assets system is accomplice to every corrupt politician, every stolen forint, regardless of whether the money was stolen by him or a colleague. The LMP does not want to assist with the idea of the hand washes over the last 27 years, we do not want to maintain the hypocritical appearance of transparency, but we want to put Hungarian politics on a new footing. We want to prove to the Hungarian people that corruption does not necessarily go hand in hand with politics and politicians. We want to prove that we can also create relations in Hungary where politicians must meet more stringent requirements than any Hungarian citizen. Possibly Other Politics has therefore been demanding not only the abolition of the property declaration system for years, but we have also put a proposal on the table that would guarantee the elimination of the loopholes and escape routes that are deliberately incorporated into the current system. We not only tell the problems, we not only make excuses, but we put concrete, thought-out proposals on the table. We propose that instead of declarations of assets, Members of Parliament should be subject to a mandatory asset assessment year after year, and not only them, members of government, dignitaries of public law, local government leaders, as well as leaders of state and local government-owned companies. In this system, transparency would not be based on uncontrolled self-certification, but would be conducted by an independent institution. The purpose of the investigation would be not only to map the origins of the confessed, but also of the unconfessed property. We also submitted this proposal when Gábor Simon's hundreds of millions of secrets were discovered, and even when Antal Rogán, Péter Szijjártó and who knows how many pro-government politicians were exposed to his declaration of wealth. We are interested in the government, not in the color of corruption, but in the fact of corruption. However, the majority of the government swept off our proposal each time, making it clear that the pro-government representatives had something to hide, because if you are not hiding anything, if it is really fair, you are interested in the more stringent investigation, because that is the only way you can prove it better. However, we do not give up, at the beginning of this year we have initiated a five-party consultation on our proposal so that the factions can signal their potential problems before the submission, and thus increase the chances of creating real transparency. To our surprise, in addition to the opposition representatives, a representative of the ruling party appeared, although his presence did not raise the light of the event, as Fidesz made it clear that Fidesz was not in a position to touch on the current declaration of assets, as he considered it to be one of the most stringent systems in Europe at the moment. Although it is quite clear that it is a pity to argue with the position of Fidesz, because they themselves do not mean that, but it is worth stating one thing. The system where politicians hide their wealth and then have no consequences if they are caught is neither strict nor operational, and from this point of view we do not care at all what the regulation is in other countries of Europe. We are re-submitting the proposal in which we have already incorporated the proposals of the parliamentary parties who have taken the issue seriously. The Parliament will therefore vote again on this issue, and then it will be revealed once again that the governing parties are on the side of corrupt politicians or transparency. However, one thing worth remembering is that if our proposal is rejected again, they do not say no to the idea of LMP, but to the very clear demand of the Hungarian people that corrupt politicians be held accountable. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-03-07-2	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-03-07-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Listening to the Member's speech, it seemed as if there were some very tragic situation in Hungary, and somewhere in the last row we were croaking between the states of law, and the source of all our problems was insufficient political declarations of wealth. I would therefore like to illustrate, with a few small examples, how we look, for example, in the European field, how it is regulated to the west of us. Or I would like to raise the question of the fact that any statement of this kind represents a kind of fundamental rights restriction, which is absolutely right vis-à-vis politicians, public actors, but the extent of this and the extent to which it serves the objective set, I would like to show that the current regulation is in the same way as it is in other EU Member States, properly and sometimes even more stringently, on this issue. Perhaps I would first like to refer to Germany, whose democratic arrangement or even the integrity of the officials there may not be disputed by the Member during the course of what has been said. In Germany, only the representatives of the Bundestag have to make a statement of income each year, and this is not an accurate statement of HUF, brand or euro, but set up ten categories of income within which they have to indicate the range of their regular income in that year; that is to say, it does not contain any further breakdowns, either above EUR 250 000 for the 10th category, but beyond that. It can therefore be concluded that the regulation is much milder than the Hungarian legislation, where a declaration of assets must be made and income must also be declared to Members. The representatives of the upper house do not have to make any statements. In neighbouring Austria, in which we can also say that there is no controversial rule of law, as is the case with German legislation, only Members are obliged to declare regular and non-regular incomes and do not have to mention the property of their relatives or any other property of their Members. Of course, the regulation also affects state officials, state ministers and ministers alike. In Switzerland, which is one of the oldest democracies, the members of the two Chamberlain Parliament must make a so-called statement of interest stating in which company or association they hold and what position they do not have to indicate precisely the form and name of the company, in fact their role should be clarified. A declaration of property and interest should be made in Romania in a similar way, which is also a Member State of the Union, and therefore, when harmonising legislation, these issues were clearly regulated in accordance with EU standards. In Slovenia, every Member must make a declaration of wealth and income, which is no more stringent than the Hungarian legislation. Family members only have to make a declaration of wealth and income, unlike the Hungarian legislation, if there is a suspicion of unfair growth due to an unjustified increase in wealth, in this case they are also obliged to declare that the origin of the property can be clarified. [[9.10]] In Croatia, the origin of the property must be indicated in the declaration of property, whether it is inherited or acquired. In Belgium, there is also an obligation to make declarations of assets, but this does not cover family members, unlike Hungarian legislation. In Poland, too, there is no stricter regulation and the family members are also not covered. Once again, if we look at France as a basis, we can see that there is no stricter regulation in France. So, overall, if we list Western examples, the state of the state of a country, the mentality of politicians is not the result of regulation, but the extent to which laws are respected. I would reject the Member's suggestion that a politician would also be corrupt, although it may mean self-criticism, I consider the Member to be better, but the presumption of innocence is the same. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] shall enjoy representatives as any other Hungarian citizen. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-07-4	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Hiller, Member of the MSZP Group, Vice-President of Parliament, asked for a pre-meeting address on the past, the future and the homogeneous nation. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. (István Ikotity takes his place) in the notary seat. )
u2017-03-07-5	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Dear House, Recently, the Prime Minister's speech to the public, in which he used the term ethnic Homogenicity, has given a serious impression. The echo was critical and negative both at home and abroad. The government explained through several rounds for a reason. Many have given and analyzed many interpretations. Please allow me to link the general and accepted findings of scientific research here and today with a very simple, but very concrete political example, in our case at present with the working conditions of the Hungarian Parliament. The representatives of the Hungarian Parliament shall be elected on a non-ethnic basis, with the exception of national speakers participating in the meeting. Hungarian people, Hungarian citizens, in this comparison they can be compared to many other Hungarian environments and workplaces. Yet they are more in mind, so I suggest that we look at this aspect. The fairest thing is to start with myself and my own faction. Hiller is my last name, an old family of citizens from Sopron, but my ancestors did not come to Hungary today with our leader Árpád. Behind me is Congressman Korózs, his ancestors and his name are of vallon origin, and beside me is Congressman Burány, whose last name is Slovak. A faction away, the faction leader is called Volner, next to him is Congressman Staudt. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] , behind them, Congressman Ander and Vice President Sneider, from whom, by the way, there are fundamental differences in perception, but it is connected that their names are not of prehistoric Hungarian origin either. A further faction was recently the leader of Congresswoman Schmuck, before which Mr Schiffer performed this role, and a member of their group, Mr Ikotity, who had just spoken, no doubt, with Slavic, perhaps Serbian, ancestors. In front of the Christian Democrats, Secretary of State Hoffmann, Head of the Harrach Group [[Defiance.]] Mr Firtl, representative of the most loyal Hungarian city, Civitas fidelissima. The names of the representatives of Hirt, Lezsák, Manninger, Völner, Witzmann, Tuzson Fidesz are also a good and clear witness. In the European Union, the name of the Hungarian Commissioner is Navracsics. [[Defiance.]] And the current President of Hungary, Áder, has a German name, meaning, veins. This, fellow Members, is normal in the middle of Europe. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's what the Prime Minister was talking about! That's what he said! He was talking about the Swabian names.]] We came from different directions. Our ancestors came from different directions. They argue, we argue sometimes in late-heavy debates, and I hope that we agree on this, and we are all proud Hungarians. None of them have the right to higher or lower the other because we are, so we form a nation. There's no point in any speech that wants to make this look different and different. If I may, it is worth mentioning all this science, because science has given a credible and thought-out explanation before politicians. One of the most prestigious professors of this question, Csanád Bálint, summarized this, and published the Hungarian Science 2008/10. In the October issue of the Hungarian People's Genesis, he is likely to be dissatisfied with the results of the experts, and of course he can continue to stick to his fantasies. I suggest we stop insisting on that. I suggest that we also take everything that has been said and that our thoughts and speeches should be adapted accordingly. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-03-07-6	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Bence Tuzson wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-03-07-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, You're a well-prepared Member of Parliament, we've known you here in Parliament on the basis of your comments, but I have to draw your attention to one thing. In this case, please remain textual and follow it if you refer to a speech that is given in this speech, because this speech is about the fact that even in this country all names occur from bunevac to swab, but this is diversity within the same band - this is what this speech says. So you don't have to take a sentence out of this speech based on the press, you have to look at the whole speech and look at the meaning of the speech. If we are talking about Hungary, we must add that a country works well if it can define fundamental issues for itself, and that is exactly what this speech is about. The fundamental question of who we live with in Hungary and who live here in Hungary must be regarded as a national question, and this question must be decided by us Hungarians in Hungary. Of course, they have other aspirations, and there are many of your benches who support this endeavour, which means that this issue should be removed from Hungarian competence, not from the Hungarians, not from this fundamental issue, but from us to hand over the right to Brussels and Brussels to decide who we Hungarians should live with. Of course, we disagree as much as possible with this, and we cannot do it very differently, because there was a referendum in Hungary, where 3 million 400 thousand people decided in one direction and said that Hungarians must decide on this fundamental issue in Hungary, and they must remain in Hungarian competence on this issue. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, unfortunately, this is the issue of quota, which is in line with this speech, what we Hungarians would like to keep for ourselves, the issue of quota day by day, comes up again and again in the European Union. Last time, one of the EU Commissioners, Mr Avramopoulos, raised the issue of quota again, and in the context of punishing countries who do not want to cooperate with Brussels and do not want to accept the issue of quota. On this fundamental issue, Hungary wants to protect Hungarian interests and to act as decisively as possible in this matter. Legal proceedings are already under way in this regard, and legal proceedings are ongoing. If the EU Commissioner were to respond to the threat of breach of obligations against Hungary, Hungary would, of course, take the most decisive action, because Hungarian interests in this area must also be protected and protected by the Hungarian Government. [[9.20]] I do not think that it is right to refer to a speech, guided by any political motivation or simply out of thoughtlessness, and to take out a sentence of speech, but to put aside the whole meaning of speech, the contexts of speech. We put aside, not only the context itself, but also where it is said, under what political circumstances a speech is made. Today in Hungary there is a serious threat to so-called ethnic homogenicity, which represents the ethnic composition of Hungary, because it is true that today we are a united nation within a single band in Hungary. There has been a political concept in Hungary, in a historical sense, that it is a political nation. Well, we are a nation after all, including those who live as nationalities in Hungary, because they are part of this country, this nation, the great nation. We must treat these people together and this nation together. However, there is no reason to open the gates and encourage further changes or even accept further changes. This, on the other hand, Hungary must act very hard, and it must continue to act in the future. We must not accept any political current that seeks to encourage the opposite. And we don't want to accept it, whether it's from the right or from the left. We must keep the center, keep the interests of the nation, because that is why Hungary has a national government today. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-07-8	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Member Márton Gyöngyösi, Jobbik Group also applied for a speech before the agenda:. Why is the Orbán government silent when the speech of the Brussels bureaucracy is delivered? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-07-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, German Commissioner Günther Oettinger, in the leading German economic newspaper at Global Handelsblatt, said in response to a question, he said that the sanctions should not be imposed on renegade countries such as Hungary and Poland to withdraw EU funds, because these resources are not intended primarily for the development of the Central and Eastern European region, but represent additional revenue for companies in Western countries, primarily for their interests and for their market acquisition, for these European Union funds, for the development and cohesion policy of the European Union. The funds given to the countries of Eastern Central Europe are mainly for Western European companies with additional income and orders. This statement from an EU Commissioner is an open confession to the fact that the European Union, together with the ferry governments of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, is deceiving the peoples of Eastern and Central Europe; together, the EU governments are assisting in this. This, if you like, can be said to be Brussels' autumn speech. A Commissioner of the European Union, one of the leaders of the European Union, spilled the terrible truth. I don't think it's too much to say that it's like a fall speech. What we have always suspected, we have always felt, but now one of the leaders of the European Union has said that the European Union is primarily in the service of Western, German economic and financial interests, and that the European Union's development cohesion policy is primarily about the market acquisition of Western firms and not the development of the Central and Eastern European region. The countries of Western Europe are the primary beneficiaries of cohesion policy. The Jobbik Hungary Movement drew attention already in 2011, and it would be time to withdraw the European Union's real balance sheet. It is not true what the Fidesz and the Balliberal Atlantis, bidding against each other, say that the balance of our accession to the European Union is exhausted in the direct effects, in the difference between the Member's fee paid to the European Union and the resources coming from the European Union to our country. This is not the balance sheet of the European Union, there are also the effects followed, including how and how EU funds can be used. Here, we have had several debates with Mr Secretary of State and with your boss, Minister, on European Union resources, and we have been in deep agreement that EU development policy needs to be reformed in a sense, because these are strapped money - here is the statement by the Commissioner of the European Union in this regard - which the EU Member States may not spend as they wish, or as their interests would dictate in the first place, but as required by the author, the provider of development money, and can make investments that are allowed by the provider of funds. The real question now is why the Hungarian government is silent and why the countries of Central and Eastern Europe are silent on this issue. Three times for four years, you have governed this country, and you have created an illusion of catching up here in Hungary, that with EU development money, this cohesion policy, Hungary will catch up with the West as a result of membership of the European Union, and we are all surprised not to be closer to Western Europe, but to be further away from it. Perhaps it should not have been the kind of economic policy that you have been pursuing, that you will either stay home and become a wage slave or go to Western Europe, and that Hungarian citizens should not have been subjected to the kind of economic policy that you have been pursuing. I am pleased that you have finally found a rubber bone and have noticed what we have known for ten years that we are second-rate citizens in the periphery of the European Union and are feeding garbage to the peoples of Eastern Central Europe. But that's not the real problem, it's that wages are in decline. Let's deal with this. Follow the example of Jobbik...
u2017-03-07-10	Congressman!
u2017-03-07-11	... which has set the target of a union of wages and the catching-up of Hungarian wages to Western Europe. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-07-12	Congressman, your timeframe is over, thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-07-13	Mr President, Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, I could also start my speech by saying that it is better than never, because the Hungarian Parliament has dealt with the use of European Union funds in two parliamentary debates last year, in which you are reading the criticisms that you are reading on the government's head on the basis of Commissioner Oettinger's statement, Minister Lázár said in both ministerial expoes. There are basically three approaches from the Eastern-Central European perspective to the purpose of EU cohesion funds. In the view of the most optimistic and generally Balliberal parties, cohesion funds serve to reduce and eliminate the development gap between Western and Eastern Europe. We don't think that's true. The more realistic view is that by building infrastructure in Eastern Europe, Western Europe has no other purpose but to bring its own products and services as smoothly as possible to Eastern Europe, the region in which, in the years prior to the 2004 EU enlargement, or without which, in the years prior to the 2004 EU enlargement, Western European companies could not have kept up with businesses outside the European Union, such as America and Southeast Asia. The third, the most pessimist position, says that cohesion funds serve no other purpose than to comfort and disenfranchise the players in the Eastern Central European markets, so that when cohesion money taps are shut down, these weak businesses can be devoured by Western European companies - very simply. In this respect, what can a national government claiming to be responsible do? Two things: one is to try to negotiate as much money as possible for his own country, and the other is to try to keep as much money in his own country as possible. What is the balance sheet of Hungary's EU membership in terms of capital exports? Since 2004, the difference between the export of capital to foreign companies operating in Hungary and the import of capital to Hungarian-owned companies operating abroad has been minus HUF 1800 billion. So that's how much capital came out. From Hungary since the first year of membership of the European Union, which represents a huge loss to the Hungarian economy. The link you are referring to is not a new link, because when the current government began to renegotiate the budgetary framework with the European Union in 2013, our Polish brothers and sisters conducted a study on three forms of reflowing cohesion policy towards net contributors. [[9.30]] The first form of cohesion money is when the countries of Central and Eastern Europe buy machines, tools that appear as exports to the Germans and imports to us. By the way, not only the Germans, but also the French and British economy, so all net contributors are essentially beneficiaries of cohesion policy. The other return flow source, this accounts for approximately 12 percent of the return flows when indirectly owned companies in Hungary have their parent companies located in the net contributor countries. The third source of the return flow is when companies that are German, French-owned companies participate in the implementation of the Hungarian development and return these funds through profit. For this reason, and for what you have said, Member, I think that Jobbik should rethink very seriously how and how it criticises the government in the area of development policy. Because we hear nothing else from you when we take protectionist economic policy measures to make this and corruption a sign of equality. So either your faction is serious about what you have just said, that it is necessary for the current Hungarian government to implement Hungarian national interests and, if possible, try to bring Hungarian businesses to the fore within the legal framework of the Union. For example, this was partly done in the construction sector, as the year 2012-13 was the turning year, where the proportion of foreign-owned companies in Hungarian public investments turned to the advantage of Hungarian-owned companies. So the share of Hungarian-owned companies was over 50 percent there. But if you really believe that this is what the current Hungarian government must do, then you must be very careful about the corruption indicator that your faction and your party regularly use in case of any possibility that they think they can hit the government. I agree with you that the use of cohesion resources to countries in Central and Eastern Europe is a huge opportunity and a huge threat. But if you seriously identify it and seriously place it on your flag in the name of the Jobbik faction that a national government has to fight against it, then they should exercise some restraint in corruption disputes in that respect. [[The president's ringing several times.]] that when Hungarian actors are given the opportunity, Hungarian actors who represent a significant weight in the Hungarian construction sector, in the Hungarian service sector, should not always put an equal sign between the two statements, because they make themselves uncredited. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-07-14	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Member Attila Móring József also applied for a speech before the agenda:. The reduction in the share of fossil fuels has what effect on domestic security of supply? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-07-15	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, The key part of energy policy is energy consumption and the supply system that can safely cover this, the country's well-chosen energy portfolio. I am also interested in following the trends in energy consumption in the world as well as the change in the use of energy sources. The International Energy Agency has clear data on these processes, but most recently the statistical office of the European Union has also published data on the EU's energy consumption. However, before mentioning the main findings of these data, let us take a look at our country: what energies are we building on at home? We have nuclear, coal, lignite and renewable energy sources in Hungary. Based on the experience of the past years, these can be well matched, our system is functioning well, and our consumer care is guaranteed at the moment. Even in January 2017, our energy system, which produced three decades of cold record, was able to withstand well, and the country's security of energy supply was guaranteed throughout this winter. At the same time, we have agreed with the EU to contribute to reducing Community greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030 compared to 1990 levels, while with the world, more specifically the Paris Convention, we are helping to achieve global climate protection targets. In the light of all this, the question may arise whether this domestic energy mix has not gone too far and is able to adequately support this commitment to decarbonisation. In order to respond to this, we should therefore go through the EU's energy consumption data. Where exactly is Europe in fulfilling this decarbonisation task? According to published data, the EU's gross energy consumption fell by 2.5 percent below 1990 levels by 2015. The use of 1626 million tonnes of oil equivalent is also 11,6 percent lower than the peak achieved in 2006. Before last year, nearly three-quarters of consumption was supplied with fossil fuels, i.e. coal, oil and natural gas, but in recent decades their share has decreased steadily; while in 1990 83 percent and in 2015 only 73 percent. At the same time, and in parallel with this trend, Europe's dependence on imports of fossil fuels. Although the share of fossil fuels in the energy mix of all EU Member States decreased between 1990 and 2015, there are still only three countries, namely Sweden, Finland and France, whose energy mix is less than 50%. But what do the figures say about Hungary? Our country has also passed a good exam in this area. The country's energy consumption decreased by much more than 16 percent over the period considered and compared to the EU as a whole. Within the energy mix, the share of fossil fuels fell to 70 per cent by 12 percentage points compared to 1990 levels, which is the 9th lowest in the EU; although, unfortunately, our dependence on energy imports has also increased, as in the EU as a whole. The national energy strategy adopted by the Parliament in 2011 focused our attention on the energy sources that are essential for our country with a view to independence from addiction and defined the most obvious energy mix that would guarantee the country's sustainable energy supply. It's the pursuit of independence, even in small steps, but it's on its way. It is undisputed that Hungary is taking steps towards decarbonisation. I believe that progress is at a good pace, because on this path it will open up even more room for independence in the decades ahead, to maintain the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and to gradually expand renewable energy sources. So we have plenty of room for manoeuvre to facilitate decarbonisation. Finally, let me remind you of the active role of Pope Francis, which he has constantly expressed in order to protect the world and our nature. So it is no coincidence that in the encyclical of the beginning of Laudato si, he will address one of the important issues of contemporary society. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and its essential objective, the need to replace fossil fuels. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-07-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Aradszki wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-03-07-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The content of your contribution before the agenda is very important, because Hungary has reached a milestone when it appears the result of what we have done in 2011 towards the targets of the national energy strategy. In particular, we want to be independent of addiction, i.e. to reduce the share of our energy sources from third countries, and our aim is also to meet the decarbonisation targets we have undertaken. I believe, as your words have shown, that the aim of the national energy strategy is to ensure the long-term sustainability of Hungary's energy supply. This sustainability is basically based on the three pillars of nuclear-carbon-green, we can add fossil oil and gas supply to coal, and the implementation of this energy scenario is the most realistic. According to Hungary's renewable energy recovery action plan, by 2020 Hungary has set a total renewable share of 14.65 per cent. This objective can be achieved. We are making good progress in this, because in 2014 the actual value amounted to 9.61 percent. So by 2020, the 14.65 per cent target appears to be met. [[9.40]] Despite increasing the renewable share, much of Hungary's electricity generation is based on nuclear and fossil fuels. These are basic power plants, which contribute to the integration of renewable energy sources into the electricity system through their control. If we did not have the appropriate amount of controlable power plant capacity provided by the base plants, we would not be able to meet our commitments to achieve the share of renewable energy. The government's obligation to protect the environment is also to ensure security of energy supply. We cannot take the path that drives fantasies without taking into account the technological characteristics of energy. On the ground of reality, based on the forecast of the national energy agency, it should be recognised that fossil energy and nuclear energy sources will be part of our energy mix for a long time. The built-in capacity of the Hungarian electricity system was 8576 megawatts at the end of 2016. From this, the available power plant capacity exceeded 7000 megawatts, of which weather-dependent wind power amounted to 329 megawatts, while solar energy amounted to approximately 168 megawatts. On average, wind power plants operated at 23 per cent and solar power plants operated at 12 per cent. Even if we were to replicate our full renewable power plant capacity, it would not be possible to cover the country's needs exclusively from weather-dependent renewable energy sources and to take into account system regulation problems. For my information, let me tell this House that during the period of January, during the cold winter, if we had only had to provide our energy supply from renewables, our electricity supply, in that case we would have had to create three times more renewable capacity compared to 7,000 megawatts, i.e. nearly 24,000 megawatts. Last year, while solar and wind power plants represented 46 percent of the total installed power plants in Germany, only 21% of electricity production was held. Dear House, I think it is very important to stress that the European Commission's package of clean energy for all Europeans threatens the security of supply of nation states. This is a dangerous route, but it is also a dangerous way to pass on the increase in energy prices from renewables to consumers with the solution of removing regulated energy prices from the system, including the regulation of electricity. I believe that we cannot allow this, that we must protect the values of the reduction of the rent and maintain our right to energy supply, while maintaining the benefits of our energy mix, this task will be carried out by the Hungarian government. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-07-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament, Fidesz Group: István Nagy Szeder, who organised a parliamentary election on 1 November 1956 entitled Kiskunhalason. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
u2017-03-07-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Fellow Members! The 1956 commemorative year ends on 16 June, but it can already be established that there is no fellow Member who, in some way, did not take part in the community work which was intended to replace the 1956 Hungarian Revolution and War of Independence in the memory of the nation. The last few months prove that 1956 is an inexhaustible source of experience, and in particular in recent months, rural events have come to light that have almost disappeared into oblivion. Such is the life path and life's work of István Szeder, and what is happening today is extremely exciting in the October 1956 days. [[Noise in the ranks of opposition parties.]] István Szeder was a small farmer, a politician who was severely abused. In 1947 he was expelled from the Kisgazda Party, after which he entered Parliament on the list of the Freedom Party, but his mandate was destroyed, and then he went to an internment camp, and then receding from public life he lived his days in Kiskunhalas as a local historian and architect. In October 56 Kiskunhalas' community listened to him because of his great authority, but he refused to work in the revolutionary committee despite the request because he said that he refused to work with the communists, the former leaders. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] However, on October 27, 1956, when there was a protest on Saturday night in Kiskunhalas, today's Bethlen Gábor Square, the communist volley claimed two deaths and more casualties. Then the state of siege was declared, the military administration took control of the city, the anger became dense, and, in this troubled, explosive atmosphere, on Monday, October 29, the Communist leaders of the city council renewed their request for István Nagy Szeder to participate in the work of the revolutionary committee, to help relieve tension, to relieve anger, to prevent further bloodshed. István Nagy Szeder accepted the membership of the Commission on the condition that a democratic election was held in Kiskunhalas within 48 hours. The condition was adopted, and so on 1 November the Hungarian Revolution and Freedom Fight of 1956 was the only free democratic election of the local government. Within 48 hours this election was organized by István Nagy Szeder, after two days of preparation, on Thursday morning at 8:00, the electoral districts opened, and it was possible to vote until 2:00 in the afternoon. There were polling districts where the participation was 100 percent, there were nearly 16,000 people in the election, and there were even moving urns, and they took the moving urns to hospitals. All parties and political forces have been recognised as regular municipal elections in Kiskunhalas. 76 percent of the votes were won by the Independent Small Farmers' Party, 14 percent by the Social Democratic Party, 6 percent by the National Peasant Party, and 4 percent by the Hungarian Workers' Party, and 4 percent by the Communist Party. Even that's a lot, said István Nagy Szeder later. After November 1, they began to prepare for the election in the surrounding settlements, but Soviet tanks, the occupation, took these initiatives away. After that, István Nagy Szeder collected 16 wagons of food with his colleagues [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] especially with the help of the Reformed Church. Well, we remember István Nagy Szeder, and thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-07-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-03-07-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think this speech, this example, these stories also prove the purity of the revolution. At the moment when the depressing air from the Soviet troops and the former Communist state power ceased to suppress Hungary, all settlements, all people, and when they felt that for a moment this suppression had finally ended, they were able to organise elections, organize charity actions. Everyone knows those pictures, photos, when the victims of the revolution are suddenly filled with paper money with empty crates, and those charity donations are not taken away, no one is at risk, no one is taking the goods out through the broken windows. [[9.50]] And so was this example, as Congressman said, in that second, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] As people have had the opportunity to organise their own choices in the way they organise themselves, to decide their own questions for themselves, not to listen to the instructions of the party president or party secretary sent there, but to decide their own fate, they were able to organise a democratic election in 48 hours and two days. It is a pity that this was organised in vain of their own volition, and then it was only an internment, not a genuine representative of the people in Parliament. And it is also very important that from week to week new points of pride are created or renewed throughout Hungary in the framework of the 56 commemorative year, and every settlement can be proud of its revolutionary heroes, it will be known its revolutionary events; and if we know these heroes better, if they become better role models for young people, then we can trust that in those historic moments when they are needed, Hungary will be heroes again. This is also important, because ten years ago, on the 50th anniversary, it was not the celebration, but violence, police terrorism, rubber bullets, tear gas, water cannon, cavalry police or viper that remained, and it caused a lasting wound to both the memory of the revolution, the Hungarian people and the specific victims, what happened at that time, ten years ago, on the 50th anniversary. But its important message is that 60 years after the outbreak and repression of the revolution, we Hungarians will never tolerate slavery. We often say that we are a freedom-loving nation, but so much freedom-loving nation in Hungary [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing again.]] that in the last three centuries he has always stood up to his rights even against the outnumber, he has not tolerated slavery, he has not tolerated the restriction of rights; if anyone wanted to take any decision from the Hungarians, the Hungarians would sooner or later have taken it back. There were times when it was settled, when it was a revolution. Just before our settlements, there was always a revolution that showed the backbone of Hungarians, the maintenance of Hungarians and the freedom of the Hungarians. So these are times when all Hungarians joined together and cry out for national sovereignty, individual freedoms. The courage of the Hungarian heroes has made the Hungarians recognized worldwide. I think it is an important stage of this worldwide pride in Hungary that we have remembered the heroes with 400 events, exhibitions, art productions, sculptures and book launches in the framework of the 56 commemorative year. If I watch only the foreign part: 66 cities had scientific events, conferences, lectures or research activities, 18 cities were inaugurated abroad to the Hungarian Revolution with monuments, plaques or statues, 92 cities worldwide had exhibitions about the Hungarian Revolution and War of Independence, 81 cities were honoured worldwide with concerts, dance performances or film screenings to Hungarian heroes, and 124 other cities had other events. If you look at the cities involved in the commemorations, let me give you just a few examples: Washington, Munich, Brussels, Berlin, Madrid, London, Bratislava, Bern, Krakow, Warsaw, Zurich, The Hague, Prague, Ottawa, São Paulo, Rome, Edmonton, Graz, Andau, Dublin, all of them represented Hungarian revolutionary commemorations. And back home, out of the 2249 sent in, the memorial committee has supported 1350 so far. At the summer festivals, Pest boys and revolutionarys appeared everywhere, at Children's Island, Volt Festival, Lake Balaton Sound, Island Festival [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] At the Strand Festival, one million people, one million young people could see, both Hungarian and foreign, the Hungarian heroes. It was a very important decision of the Hungarian government that in the Gulág Memorial Year and the 56 commemorative year, the Hungarian government will increase the total amount of political rehabilitation pension supplements by 100 percent in two years. This double, I think, is a late, but important compensation to those involved and their relatives, their widows. And it is also important that, on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the revolution, the details and names of the communist holders of power after the period after 56 were made public by the National Remembrance Committee and the Historical Archives of the State Security Services, whether they are party leaders, members of the MSZMP KB [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] , administrative department heads, home affairs department heads, state security leaders and many other power holders who were truly responsible for the bloodshed of this revolution here in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-07-22	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check if your cards have been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, The T/13473 Convention between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Iraq on the prevention of double taxation and avoidance of taxation in the field of income and property taxes follows a line. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/13473. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 158 unanimous votes in favour. It follows in order to take account of the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union, the publication of the Protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Tunisia, of the other part, T/13474. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/13474. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 161 unanimous votes in favour. It follows from the publication of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part, T/13919. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/13919. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 158 votes in favour, 3 against and 1 abstention. Following a series of discussions between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the publication of the Convention on Shipping in Tisza T/13921. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/13921. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 160 votes in favour, 2 against, without abstention. It follows the T/13922 of the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the maintenance of road border bridges on the Hungarian-Ukrainian state border. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/13922 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 164 unanimous votes in favour. Following a line between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Slovak Republic at the common border between the two countries, Abaújvár and Kenyhec 1 amending the Agreement between the municipalities on the construction of the Hernád Bridge and the connecting roads, signed in Bratislava on 27 June 2014 T/13923 on the announcement of an amendment. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/13923. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 163 unanimous votes in favour. [[10.00]] The Government of Hungary and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies T/13926 on the announcement of an agreement on the status of the International Association's Budapest Regional Office and Global Service Centre Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/13926. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 164 unanimous votes in favour. It follows from the publication of the Agreement on political dialogue and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Cuba, of the other part, T/13927. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/13927. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 163 votes in favour, 1 against and without abstention. It follows from the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area and the publication of three related agreements T/13928. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/13928. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 164 votes in favour, 1 against and without abstention. Following the publication of the Additional Protocol to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, with a view to the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, is T/1339. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1339. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 163 unanimous votes in favour. It follows from the publication of the Protocol to the Accession Protocol to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of Ecuador. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur was Mr T/13930/2. No 2 submitted an adjustment to correct spelling errors, which are available on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/13930. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 164 unanimous votes in favour. It follows from the publication of the T/13931 Interim Economic Partnership Agreement between Ghana, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/13931. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 163 votes in favour, with two abstentions. It follows from the publication of the Trade, Development and Cooperation Agreement and the Additional Protocols between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of South Africa, of the other part, and the recognition and publication of the binding scope of the Amending Agreement. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur was Mr T/1393/3. No 2 submitted an adjustment to correct spelling errors, which are available on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/1393 accepts it. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 165 unanimous votes in favour. It follows that T/13976 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the tightening of the procedure in the field of border surveillance. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/13976. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 138 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 22 abstentions. H/13282 on the adoption of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank's business report and report for the year 2015 Final vote on the proposal for a decision. However, in the light of a request for action, we must also decide to maintain a proposal for an amendment. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 1. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 1 is proposed by Sándor Burány and László Szakács. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 46 votes in favour, 120 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament did not maintain the amendment proposal and the amendment summarised for the proposal was not tabled, we will decide on the submitted text of the proposal for a decision in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/13282. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 115 votes in favour, 52 votes against and no abstentions. Following a series of amendments to Act I of 1988 on Road Transport T/13484. Final vote of bill No 1. However, in the light of a request for action, we must also decide to maintain a proposal for an amendment. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 was tabled by Balázs Ander. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 45 votes in favour, 116 votes against and 5 abstentions. [[10.10]] As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment, nor did the amendment summarised for the proposal, we decided on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/13484. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 115 votes to 49, with three abstentions. It follows that T/12969 on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the declaration of Great Friday as a public holiday will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12969/9. T/12969/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 3 of the MSZP Group, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 4. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment No 4 was tabled by István Ikotity. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 52 votes to 113, with 1 abstention. Amendment 3 is proposed by Nándor Gúr and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes to 116, with 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12969/9. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 162 votes in favour, no votes against, with 4 abstentions. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12969/13. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal with 163 votes in favour, no votes against, with 2 abstentions. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Zoltán Balog: Thank you!]] Dear Parliament, The 2011 CLXVIII on the management of weather and other natural risks to agricultural production follows. T/13472 on the amendment of the Act Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13472/7. T/13472/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Gábor Harangozó, István. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 115 votes against and no abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/13472/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 163 votes in favour, no votes against, with 2 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/13472/10. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal with 162 votes in favour, no votes against, with 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The 1994 LIII on judicial enforcement follows a series of steps. T/14298 amending Act No. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I would like to remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill is being discussed by Parliament by way of house rules. T/14298/8. T/14298/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that, according to the derogation from the adopted house rules, there is no possibility to maintain a proposal amending the decision and to request a separate vote. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/14298/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the summary amendment by 166 votes in favour. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/14298. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday the Parliament has already negotiated this. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by Bertalan Tóth, MSZP, and its fellow Members on the Co-operation for the Heated Homes Fund T/13560. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 51 votes in favour, 113 against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our decision. Thank you for your cooperation. I'm ordering a two-minute break. [[It's a short break.]] [[10.20]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. Members who do not take part in the further work of the meeting because of an urgent public task, I would ask them to leave the Chamber in silence. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, Coming up next to the International Satellite Telecommunications Organization a general debate on the draft law on the publication of the relevant agreement and its amendment until closure. Government referral T/14238. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Ákos Kara, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-07-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The future is digitalisation, without which neither the economy nor the efficient functioning of the state can be imagined. The priority area of digitalisation remains telecommunications, which has become part of our daily lives. In the field of communication, the importance of telecommunications satellites, which complement it, is often a substitute for ground systems. The cost of operating satellites and the use of this technology would be a significant financial burden for all the countries concerned if you tried to solve this alone. That is why we have decided to exploit these opportunities with other countries through international professional organisations, taking into account the benefits of efficiency, economy and joint representation. For reasons of efficiency and economy, many international telecommunications organisations participate in the broadest possible, even global, development of satellite communications. It is in Hungary's interest to participate in these international cooperations, as this is how it can make the most of the cheapest, efficient use of the advantages of satellite communications technology and, of course, to carry out its tasks to convey information to the Hungarian people using infocommunication and satellite technologies. I therefore referred to the need for international organisations to strengthen Hungarian interests in the case of our membership, including the International Satellite Telecommunications Organisation, which operates a global satellite system, providing public telecommunications services throughout the world. Our current readable bill before you aims to strengthen Hungary's legal status in this International Satellite Telecommunications Organization. Over the years, the international agreement establishing the organisation has been subject to a number of amendments, most recently entered into force on 16 January 2017, so a few weeks ago. Under the international agreement, these amendments are automatically valid for all members, including Hungary. The purpose of this proposal is therefore to announce these changes in Hungary in order to comply with technical and administrative requirements. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Space technology, the space industry, is an extremely complex and investment-intensive sector, an expensive and costly sector. We can only achieve common real results through cooperation and cost sharing. In this government cycle, the Government of Hungary is doing a lot to be an active and useful part of these international cooperations, and we can translate the everyday results and benefits of this for the Hungarian people as well. In February 2015, you may remember that we became full members of the European Space Agency, which was an important, useful and significant step forward for the country. As a result, dozens of Hungarian companies and research institutes are already involved in the implementation of the Agency, the space agency's programmes, and thanks to this membership, Hungarian companies are getting more and more market-based orders. The example of the European Space Agency shows the importance of international cooperation in this area and the benefits that Hungary can bring. This is no different in the case of space communications either, so in addition to complying with our international obligations, strengthening our membership and trusting that this will bring a number of benefits to Hungary. For example, we can access the telecommunications services provided by this organisation, such as voice, data and video traffic. This organisation can provide Hungary with satellite positioning systems, infrastructure for satellite broadcasting and satellite TV broadcasts. In addition, after providing satellite coverage to all Member States through its own satellites, this organisation can also serve the needs of Member States, including Hungary, in relation to other satellite services. Dear fellow Members, Mr President, Hungary is expected to benefit a lot from organizational membership. It is therefore in our fundamental common interest to make the best possible use of these opportunities. In view of all this, I would ask the honourable Parliament, my fellow Members, to accept and support this bill. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-07-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-03-07-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Here in the expo, we heard what this contract was about. The most important point, perhaps, is that the International Satellite Telecommunications Organisation, the ITSO, which controls Intelsat Limited, now entered into force in mid-January, as the State Secretary said. Obviously, since 2005 it has been prescribed by law that every international treaty must be negotiated by the National Assembly, and that it should be included in the Hungarian laws. Regardless of this, it will be internationally valid, but beyond this obligation, it is also necessary to adopt this law, that it is the President of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority who is representing Hungary in this organization, and, as we know, the NMHH is an organisation independent of the government, so in order to be legally able to perform it in its entirety, it must be determined by law, and it must be delegated to them by law. The Fidesz Group supports this bill, so I would ask my fellow Members to do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-07-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Árpád Velez, the lead speaker of the group of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2017-03-07-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I would like to remind the honourable fellow Members that the Hungarian Government of the time decided at the same time in February 1992 to join the European Union's Eutelsat and the International Satellite Telecommunications Organization, then known as Intelsat. Hungary joined Eutelsat in 1993 and Intelsat with 11 members in 1964 as 131 members on 26 January 1994. [[10.30]] With the connection, it was possible for any Hungarian space communications service provider to use the network of the organization without special permission, which then had 20 satellites. At the time, this was mainly aimed at providing telephone and rarely television connections with the United States of America, Canada and the Far East countries. First, the need for the rapid transmission of television news from anywhere in the world, and later, internet data traffic increased significantly, which strengthened the organisation's legitimacy and made membership even more justified and even more justified today. It was the satellite technology launched by Intelsat that had a huge impact on national public sectors in the form of political, economic news and cross-border transmission of information. Technology has made it possible to develop new programming strategies, from which international media systems have developed rapidly, which have truly opened up the era of global communication through the same broadcast across nations and cultures. In today's globalised world, we cannot close our borders, and today there is a particular need for the exchange of news both within Hungary and towards the outside world. Today, our lives are almost unimaginable without the use of satellite TV channels and the Internet. With the help of the Intelsat satellites, we can also keep in touch with our soldiers in international missions. The international satellite communications organization, which now has 52 communications satellites, is the world's largest space fleet, has made a significant contribution to all of this. Hungary has always had an important interest and continues to have an interest in being a member of international satellite communications organisations such as Eutelsat and Intelsat providing satellite communications globally and in a non-discriminatory manner, to participate in the work of the General Assembly and thus be able to represent Hungary's interests in making decisions. The amendment to the agreement with Eutalstal has already been ratified by the Parliament in November 2014. On this basis, the Hungarian Socialist Party supports the adoption of the bill and the ratification of the agreement and amendment to the organisation. Thank you.
u2017-03-07-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Egyed, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2017-03-07-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, The speakers before me have already said quite a lot of things, so I would like to address a segment of this issue which is obvious to everyone that the world is practically getting smaller for us in this respect. Space technology with satellite launch and XXI. In accordance with the requirements of century technology, it is inevitable and inevitable that Hungary can benefit from these opportunities, including participation in them. I would also like to mention an aspect of the bill before us, which is perhaps one of the most important issues in the negotiations. By becoming a full member of Hungary, i.e. a full member of Hungary, because, if I understand it correctly and clearly, this bill is more of a technical nature, the most important issue for Hungary is that Hungarian innovations should be given the opportunity at a level that enables Hungarian researchers and developers to display this system and provide it with technological possibilities that enhance Hungary's reputation. It is also important to note that from 2015 we became members of this space agency, and, as we have heard in the news, Hungary has since made very important progress. For example, a mini satellite was created by Hungarian researchers, which stood up and turned the world's view into the field of Hungarian research and development. Perhaps it is still possible to highlight in this proposal, as I pointed out at the outset, that the present world is unimaginable without these improvements. I would like to draw attention here perhaps to the importance of navigation - my MSZP colleague spoke about satellite television and the Internet - because it is obvious to everyone that air and maritime transport in today's world is virtually already navigated by satellites. It is very important to note that without these, this transport would be unthinkable in today's world. To sum up what was said in the bill, and not repeating the speakers before me, I can say that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will support the proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-03-07-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I will ask our independent fellow Member in the Chamber if he wishes to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] It says no. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény, MSZP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-07-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This is not today's most exciting agenda, and, as we have heard, there is consensus on the part of the parliamentary parties that everyone will support this proposal. As our lead speaker Árpád Velez, the Hungarian Socialist Party, said, supports this proposal. A little, if I may say so, I would like to share two thoughts with you in a further perspective. We believe that using satellite communications globally and non-discriminatoryly for all nations would be the right of all peoples. Of course, we know that whether satellite communication or the conquest of space, when we look at such very far-reaching thoughts, it is very expensive. Yet, we consider that, as far as the nation states are concerned, turning inwards would be the natural thing, it would be best for mankind - that I really use such great words - if this were open to all. This, of course, requires solidarity with the smaller states of wealthier and larger states, and we believe that the exploitation of space will have to be done for the benefit and benefit of all countries. I just wanted to share these two thoughts with you. As we have said, of course we support the bill. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-03-07-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2017-03-07-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, By confirming our vote in favour, I would like to explain that we attach great importance to Hungary's progress towards joining the Eutelsat and the Intelsat system. This is perhaps the most powerful engine of social modernisation and economic progress today. So digitalisation and the exploitation of technological opportunities are important for each country, even for such basically anti-coital governments, as the Fidesz government is basically pro-coastal, and should actually move towards opening, at least at the level of technology. I would just like to mention as an interesting fact that Elvis Presley, who now has a renaissance, held his first world-wide concert in Honolulu on 12 January 1973. So in Honolulu on January 12, 1973, Elvis Presley concert was the first world concert that billions of people around the world could watch through the satellite system. There were two reasons for that. On the one hand, that Elvis Presley was a world star, on the other hand, that they were able to technically do it through satellite television, that they could watch it at the same time on several continents. So if the world was already here in 1973, then I think it is high time that a government that considers itself extremely conservative, anti-European and traditional, such as the Fidesz-KDNP government, at least in these undisputed technological steps, took the necessary legislation, the necessary steps and conditions for accession to international treaties. [[10.40]] In this area, we can even bear the fact that they speak otherwise than what they actually do. This act is a good act for the good of the country, so we support it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-03-07-34	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go.
u2017-03-07-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Thank you very much, fellow Members, for your supporting contributions. On behalf of the Government, I thank the parliamentary parties for their support. The type of opposition, which was almost customary, was not about the substance of the bill, and these are put aside, and I suggest that we support the bill together with our votes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-03-07-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, In line with the 2016 LXVIII on excise duty. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Presentation by the representatives of Dénes Galambos and Gábor Törő, Fidesz T/14245. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Törő, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-07-37	Mr. President. Dear House, Thank you for the floor. The bill before us is essentially a correction, a tax relief step, resulting from the unnecessarily negative impact of the changes in excise duty that will enter into force on 1 April on an area that affects many supplier companies in Hungary. The new excise legislation is the result of a legislative work that has been going on for years, which contains substantive, substantive and structural changes as expected. Now allow me to remind you of some of the important elements of the new excise legislation. The original aim of the reform was to reduce the administrative burden on farmers and to comply with the European legal standard governing the area, but the proposal was also timely in terms of modernisation, uncertainty in the application of the current legislation and technical progress. Consequences of recent judgments in this area can also be found in the new legislation. The proposal tried to incorporate the interpretation issues raised by the old regulation and the practical experience of Europe into the regulation. With the entry into force of the new excise regime on 1 April 2017, it will be possible for tax warehousekeepers and customs authorities to have sufficient time to carry out the developments and tests necessary for electronic reporting. Until that date, the excise rules in force shall be maintained. However, with the amendment of the excise law in force, the measures which benefit farmers in respect of manufactured tobacco will be implemented as from 1 January. Thus, according to the plans, the price will be removed from the product as early as 1 January in order to determine the price flexibly, by maintaining the tax ticket system and the switch to the seal will take place with the entry into force of the new excise law on 1 April. All communications relating to excise goods will become electronic, so that records and data services kept on paper will have to be digitally managed and completed as of 1 January next year. Tax warehouse licensees will be subject to monthly reporting to the NAV by excise licensees and fuel stations on a daily basis. Under the new rules, the rules on excise authorisation vary significantly, for example, the tax warehouse system is transformed, so that in the future any excise goods can be produced, stored, bottled and assembled in the framework of a single tax warehouse permit. The system of the framework licence will be terminated, i.e. the person who has carried out his duty-free user activities with such authorisation may continue to operate as a tax warehouse in the future or, in the absence of a tax warehouse authorisation, can obtain excise goods taxed. Finally, let us recall the provision concerning this bill. The operation of the tax warehouse would, in some cases, be subject to more stringent rules under the new excise regime, which are currently subject to compliance with the framework authorised farmers. This change would have affected many farmers, from the pharmaceutical industry to the manufacturers of bonbon cherries, who currently use excise goods exempt from their activities. The aim now is, I repeat, to avoid unnecessary burden with the new legislation on supply companies which could even be compromised. I ask for the support of the legislative amendment proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-03-07-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai wishes to speak. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-03-07-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As Member Gábor Törő said, the primary objective of the proposed legislation is to ensure that, under the new excise regime, chocolate production can continue without any type of excise licence in the case of the use of alcoholic fruit without juice for chocolate production, as is the case with the current rules in force. The risk of abuse associated with the use of alcohol without juice is low because no alcoholic juice suitable for human consumption is produced during the production of chocolate. The proposal reduces the burden of both producers of alcohol-free fruit without juice and chocolate producers using alcohol-free fruit. Technically, the proposal defines the concept of alcoholic fruit without juice, the exemption from the obligation to pay taxes at the time of its production, and the exemption from the obligation to hold a tax warehouse when used for the production of chocolate. The secondary objective of the bill is to clarify the statutory excise provisions relating to manufactured tobacco, the amendment of which should make it possible to tax new categories of tobacco products in the same way as for legislative purposes. As a first step, the proposal contributes to a clear and reassuring application of the excise duty rules for the new categories of tobacco products to the taxpayers concerned at the same time as the new excise legislation enters into force. Dear Parliament, The measures set out in the bill before you are necessary to reduce the burden on chocolate producers and to ensure the proper functioning of the new excise legislation. That is why I am asking my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-03-07-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that two key speakers wish to present the position of the Fidesz Group. First, I give the floor to Congressman Dénes Pigeon.
u2017-03-07-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, As well as the submitted T/14245. The rapporteur on the agenda and the rapporteur on the Economic Committee on the basis of the correct reasons that my fellow Member, Gábor Törő, the other author of the bill, expressed earlier, are in favour of addressing the issue of alcoholic fruit used in chocolate production. [[10.50]] In this case, it is also important that this should take place before the entry into force of the excise duty law, i.e. before 1 April 2017. This is true in relation to tobacco products 11. In addition to the pre-para., which, as I will explain, contain basically legal technical and entry into force provisions. I do not wish to repeat what the Secretary of State and the rapporteur have said. Obviously, there is an important interest in ensuring that the product scope which has been unduly subject to or under excise duty, which is the issue of fruit used for chocolate production, is not subject to tax warehouse or excise duty. I believe that this is important for fruit producers, because it is also essentially intended that in Hungary, the fruits that belong to a premium category and their production area has recently fallen significantly - not in the last ten years, but in the wrong support policy for the previous period - should be helped by this tool, if possible, in the area of tax policy, by the producers here, who employ local labour and, in the seasonal period, by a large number of seasonal workers in the order of hundreds. Thus, the policy and regulatory policy objectives are intertwined here. The sections on tobacco products have been re-opened for the purposes of Article 3 (3). Article 11 (1) (a) The scope of the bill is up to §2 because new categories of tobacco products have appeared, which are currently not present on the Hungarian market, but their appearance and spread are expected soon, as is the case with electronic cigarettes. It is clear that these new products, these new categories, are the ones that require the possibility of excise taxation to be created by the bill. In fact, we will replace this legal bridge by clarifying the entry into force provisions by amending them by 1 April 2017 and marking the entry into force. That is why it is important that this bill be adopted in the order that allows the deadline to be kept. Not repeating what my previous colleague and the Secretary of State have said, in the light of what I have said, and also interpreting the request of my fellow Member János Hargitai from KDNP, we also recommend that Parliament discuss the bill, adopt it and enter into force on 1 April 2017. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-03-07-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the other lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr Gábor Törő, if you wish to speak.
u2017-03-07-43	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Perhaps, on the basis of the current legislative environment, it should be seen that there are three places where the legislation provides for tax exemptions. This is 68. § 1/b Point 13 of the Annex to the EEA Agreement shall be amended as follows: § 3/A/ah-b. Article 64 and another paragraph, which I am about to make available to you: paragraph 64. § 4/c Point 1.1.2. If these three pillars were removed, domestic producers could suffer a competitive disadvantage that is not applied in many countries, such as France, Germany, Italy. These manufacturers are returning their alcoholic cherry products from Serbia, Macedonia, Bulgaria. The disadvantage of Hungarian companies in competition would be such that there would be an irretrievable competitive disadvantage, which is why I am in favour of amending the legislation and asking Parliament to support it. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-03-07-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Burány, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-07-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The bill before us is typically a bill submitted by the Legislative Committee before the final vote takes place, using minor technical clarifications and, where appropriate, some facilitations. This draft legislative amendment is a legislative proposal which is typically in line with such a Commission recommendation. But it's not, it's an independent motion. It was not submitted when the excise duty laws were negotiated last June, but after a few months of reflection. Fidesz never seems to have enough time to make a good law, but he always has time to change a law over and over again. I have said several times here within the walls of this House, and I am forced to repeat it now, because the situation has not changed much, while Fidesz and the government always bring forward the date of the negotiation of tax laws and the fiscal law, and we are discussing these legislative proposals early in the summer, in the spirit of predictability, these laws, which we adopt in the spirit of predictability, always have a very fast expiry date. Even now, before the originally adopted bill enters into force, practically an amendment will be tabled to it. At the time, the Ministry of National Economy amended the law on excise duty, which we adopted last June, polished it like a diamond for about a year, but this law did not become a polished diamond in its entirety, and its time span is also highly questionable. If this excise duty law had already been touched, one would think that one would correct one of the biggest injustices of this excise duty law, which makes the lives of millions of families in Hungary miserable. Let us remind you that this excise duty law contains one of the strangest rules in Europe, which basically states that if fuel becomes cheaper on the world market, the Hungarian state will quickly increase its excise duty period so that families do not accidentally buy fuel cheaper than gas stations. This was an impossible amendment last June, an inability to regulate at a time when, by the way, the price of oil per barrel has been low for a long time on the world market. Unfortunately, this is not particularly noticeable at domestic gas stations, because at the moment that the world market price is falling below $50, the Hungarian state will carefully increase its tax content thanks to your votes, so this product will not be cheaper. If an amendment to the original excise duty law had already been tabled before its entry into force, this would have made sense, but unfortunately this is missing from this bill. I do not underestimate the value of cognac sour cherries, my fellow Members, because this is a very important product, it is very helpful for farmers producing raw materials to reduce or abolish the minimum excise duty that has been imposed on this, I think, because of its alcoholic strength. I don't mean to be ironic about this, but the significance of cognac sour is dwarf compared to the importance of fuel prices, it would be much more helpful for the country to change the tax regulation of fuel prices. Dear House, Many words should not be wasted on this one substantial mitigation for a product group and a bill containing more technical clarification. [[11.00]] Not underestimating the importance of this, we must express our frustration. This excise law deserves a far greater change, if it amends it once, in the spirit of predictability, before it enters into force. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély applauds.]]
u2017-03-07-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-07-47	Mr President, Dear House, It is not my place to underestimate the cognac-meggy lobby, as it is about Hungarian suppliers and the interests of Hungarian suppliers. I would therefore like to say that Jobbik will support this proposal. At the same time, I must say that I am amazed that this amendment could appear before us, and that we could discuss it even until evening, while the legislative pace of Fidesz-KDNP is more than just showing that by 1 April, so by the end of the policy work on tax changes, the total collapse was once again produced. After all, they must already clarify the provisions of entry into force. So the end of your multi-annual work is that you have to untie and untie what you've screwed up, you've screwed up. We can see that this is in fact the characteristic of their entire legislative work. Let's think about the day yesterday, when we amended the law on enforcement procedures with 10 minutes per faction. Count out, Secretary of State, what a budget area we've hit. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State what budgetary implications we can expect for cognac and other relevant articles. I hope that the best we can do is to benefit Hungarian suppliers, and this is a common goal, and there is no debate. But what we see is that, in comparison to the implementation procedure, we can see that legislative proposals are of no weight at your own weight, although, in addition to your mistakes, we can still have substantive debates, and yet we see that in far more serious areas, what you are doing is simply a disaster. So an eviction moratorium expires on March 1st. Didn't you know that in advance? Did they have any idea how long your eviction moratorium would last? Couldn't they just take the time to change the rules of implementation? And even so, the amendment has been incorrectly tabled. You couldn't make a flawless proposal yesterday either. I would add that the fuller way and version of this was submitted three years ago by the Jobbik faction, and you did not even find it suitable for debate, almost the same thing that was forced through Parliament yesterday as a matter of urgency. With regard to the change in excise requirements, once again, there is no need for major debates if the provisions on entry into force are to be clarified. We will support this. However, it should be noted that, indeed, in far more serious areas, such as, say, the excise duty content of fuels, the Government of Hungary is assassinating Hungarian citizens, Hungarian consumers, in the sense that in an unprecedented way, the possible decline in world market prices will not be allowed to be passed on to consumers and customers. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] As regards the reduction of basic food prices in the form of cosmetic VAT, we have already found that traders have been able to steal half of the reduction, and we have 9 and 14 percent data. Since then, the Minister of State and the Government, Ministers and Prime Minister of Hungary have not done anything to ensure that this difference swallowed by traders continues to migrate to customers in some way. With regard to fuels, we also see that all kinds of facilitations from the world market simply stop and can no longer ring towards consumers. What we see here, of course, is the need to favour suppliers, but basically, how could this government benefit Hungarian suppliers? In two ways: on the one hand, if, in relation to his so-called strategic contracts, he imposed a fair proportion of Hungarian suppliers and co-workers, or at least asked for something like this, and on the other hand, he would ask for the start of the wage catch-up. After all, it is absolutely untenable that, because of the pay gap between Hungary and the Western European countries, emigration is on the one hand in a brutal way, and the Hungarian economy is unable to stand on its own feet with such a cheap wage level. So if you really want to help in this area and take Parliament's time, Parliament's debate, you should not only think about excise duty, you should not only have the courage to include precise provisions, but also stand on the European stage in terms of catching up on average wages for Hungarian citizens, or at least in terms of starting this process. They will not be able to build a successful, independent, sovereign national economy until this is passed through. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-07-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. I don't see LMP applying for a statement. Independent congressman won't speak now. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. Will anyone present themselves for further speeches? [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed and I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to comment. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Törő.
u2017-03-07-49	Mr. President. Dear House, I never thought we'd be talking about eviction at the excise duty hearing. I can understand many times, Mr. Deputy Minister, that you have sweat on your forehead when you have to listen to this. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes several times.]] In my constituency, I have a company that deals with alcohol. The annual turnover is HUF 1 billion, 90 percent of which consists of exports. By the way, I can say that there are a lot of such companies in Hungary, and these companies are the backbone of family businesses. This employs about 40-60 people per year and 120 people per season. I believe that the loss of a job is also a serious loss to society, so let us do everything to ensure that none of this happens. I propose supporting and adopting the amendment of the law. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-07-50	Thank you very much to the rapporteur, Mr Gábor Törő. Dear Parliament, They will have the opportunity to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, It's coming in a row... [[For signal:]] - in order of business. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2017-03-07-51	Mr President, On behalf of the government, I'd like you to order a trial break for 11 hours and 40 minutes.
u2017-03-07-52	Thank you very much. At the request of the Secretary of State, I'm ordering a trial break for 11 hours and 40 minutes. Thank you very much. [[Pause: 11.07 11.40President: Lezsák Sándorjegyző: István Ikotity]]
u2017-03-07-53	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. A general discussion of the bill on the granting of certain state-owned properties to the Reformed Church of Hungary until closure follows. The government referral T/14241. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, rapporteur on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Minister.
u2017-03-07-54	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, acting on behalf of the Government, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the adoption of the bill, which, as you know, is necessary because, in order to protect national property, we have made legislation after 2010, according to which the issue of property from the national ownership is possible only by a two-thirds majority. We would like to establish during today and in the next period the political conditions for two-thirds support to be given in Parliament for the adoption of the law, so if you will allow me, I would like to justify the submission in more detail. First of all, I'd like to talk about the place. The main point of the proposal is that in the area of the village of Geszt, we intend to give property owned exclusively by the Hungarian State to the Hungarian Reformed Church. These properties lie in the 12th most backward district and area of the country. As is known, the Trianon peace dictate has led to the most neglected and disadvantageous situation on the eastern edge of the country. It used to be the middle of the country, and from the middle of the country it became the edge of the country. My fellow Members are familiar with the social conditions typical of the East Peace Department, according to which this region deserves priority support for the country and, on the other hand, constitutes an intellectual economic reserve for the country. It represents an economic reserve because it is presumed that there may still be a workforce at the southern borders of the southern departments of the country and at the eastern borders of the eastern departments that can help in Hungarian employment conditions at the moment. In 2014, what we are talking about, there is still 10 percent unemployment in the Sarkadi District of 22,000 inhabitants. Thus, employment trends in the labour market far above the national average can be seen, with much lower per capita income, declining population, and a smaller number of children to be born. It is therefore the government's special responsibility to help Peaceful County. This is why Kecskemét and Békéscsaba are connected by means of a four-track drive, so we plan to connect Debrecen and Szeged with a four-track drive, and that is why we are trying to support Békéscsaba in the framework of the modern city programme and the eastern peace area as well. So it is in the country's interest to develop settlements and communities in Békés county. In recent years, we have worked with the municipality and mayor of the village of Geszt, we bought the property previously owned by the municipality into state property, and I can account for the renewal of the road between Nagygyanté and Geszt for HUF 3.9 billion, which is 12 kilometers of new quality asphalt. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that an interesting adventure, interesting social picture, sociological examination, if someone goes to East Peace and goes along the border, they experience infrastructure conditions that are hardly typical of the country anywhere else. On the other hand, we also supported the settlement by moving the school out of the Tisza Castle building, building a new school building and gymnasium for about a billion forints. This will take place in the autumn of 2017. The municipality will build a kindergarten and a public kitchen from its own revenue, which partly comes from us, which will be ready by 31 May 2017, and we have also supported the local government in other public cultural activities, and we are striving with the government of Romania to open a border crossing between Cséffa and Geszt, given that the social backwardness of this region is inseparable from its geographical location, the artificially established border. In Hungarian: here the natural physical connection with the separated parts of Nagyszalonta, which means only a few kilometers, seems to be hundreds of kilometers away, because the Hungarian-Romanian border has been impenetrable for decades, and if someone passes the main road in the village of Geszt and moves towards the eastern border of the country, then after some time the stone road is over, and should go on a dirt road. So it is essentially an unexplored, inaccessible community in need of reconstruction and support that can be helped by this law. However, these material, infrastructural, bureaucratic arguments would be far from sufficient for us to come before Parliament with the proposal, because there is a reason in principle for presenting the bill here. The reason for principle is that, in recent decades, since 98, the civilian government has taken several steps to capture the memory of Kálmán Tisza and István Tisza, whose birthplace and birthplace we are talking about. As a first step, the government supported the restoration of the crypt, as the crypt is located west of the property that is now being given to the reformed church property, where more than 30 members of the family, including two former Hungarian prime ministers, Kálmán Tisza and István Tisza, are based, and the state has also financed the partial ordering of this cemetery and the accessibility of the crypt. That was the first step, moral and moral duty. But I would also like to give a reason in principle why we consider it particularly important to rebuild this place. It is obvious that the spirit of the place justifies this first, and the form of place and existence cannot be separated from the two persons I was just talking about. Kálmán Tisza and István Tisza declared themselves a lowlander, so the government's plan provides opportunities for more. The government's plan is to renovate the entire building - a government decision already provided for it - and try to achieve two goals at once. First of all, he wishes to commemorate the two former prime ministers, Kálmán Tisza and István Tisza, and on the other hand he wishes to commemorate and offer an opportunity to Hungarian Protestantism from abroad. It may be remarkable - and my fellow Members will allow me to take this detour - but it is not only the 19th century that Protestantism from across the country allows me to take this detour. I may not be able to take the liberty of saying such things in the presence of a Reformed pastor - but in the presence of the 19th century, As a warning to the differences in Hungarian Protestantism of the century, it would be worth creating a memorial site in itself. But everyone agrees that, given the spirit-historical aspects of the Great Plain, this is a point and a place where, soon after the emergence of Protestantism in Central Europe, Calvinism arose despite the Turkish occupation. So very early, in the first years of Calvinism, Protestantism appears here, and there is a reason for us to create a memory, and for us to cooperate with the Reformed Church. The government's primary plan, once again, is to preserve the memory of Kálmán Tisza and István Tisza, and on the other hand we would like to establish a centre and a spiritual workshop for Protestantism on the borders of two worlds: on the border of the western Hungarian world and on the border of the eastern Hungarian world, we would like to provide an opportunity to do so, trusting that the Hungarian Reformed Churches in Transylvania will also use this spiritual workshop and this center. So on the one hand, it can be a memorial place, on the other hand an educational centre and even a meeting point of the Hungarian Reformed Church. We give this property to the Hungarian Reformed Church in the hope that, after the renovation, the Reformed Church will be ready to use it. We undertake to restore the building in its entirety from 2.5 billion HUF, to create a Tisza memorial site and to create an educational centre. Then, by 2024 with HUF 160 million a year, we give this to the Reformed Church, the Hungarian Reformed Church, in order for the churches to be able to use it. [[11.50]] The role and place of the Great Plain in Hungarian Protestantism would be sufficient for motivation in itself, but obviously we do not intend to separate it from the political context. I recommend to the attention of the honourable Parliament that in the period between 1875 and 1890, in the prime of Hungarian parliamentary aristocracy and perhaps the most productive period, the legislative proposals and then the laws adopted that established the GDP growth and the economic catch-up that took place in Hungary between 1890 and 1914 were adopted. It is safe to say that the Hungarian governments are constantly giving respect to those who have created the opportunity of economic recovery by creating an agreement with Andrássy and thinking of Ferenc Deák. It is also time to give respect to the parliamentary majority, the Members of Parliament, the opposition and the majority as well as to government officials who created the conditions of Hungarian justice, the Hungarian administration, the Hungarian economy, economic organization, governance and commercial policy between 1875, the birth of the Liberal Party and its resignation from the Prime Minister of Tisza in 1890 and Kálmán Tisza. The Hungarian Parliament can be proud of this period. You can be proud of the fact that these laws did not, in the least, fall short of similar laws in Western Europe, and even exceeded those laws in their capacity. I say this because if you take out the time-table of history, then you can see that the united Germany is born at that time; if you apply a look-out, you can see that what is happening in Hungary over these two decades, for a short period of two decades, is an opportunity for Hungary to be the decisive power of Europe with Austria. I know that there are regular disputes around the compromise between the 48's and the pro-compromise, but I think that we can be proud of our own performance, not of the alliance with the Austrians. The Hungarian national greatness, that we are ready and capable of great achievements, not only during the revolutions, but also in the everyday work, is best demonstrated by the government of Kálmán Tisza. I think that the kind of practical, pragmatic, rational country-organizing work whose slogan can be found here in the Chamber of Tisza under the portrait of Kálmán Tisza - from dust to dust, brick to brick - this kind of pragmatism, this kind of rationality, this kind of spiritual approach deserves to be remembered in any way. The fact that this country could also become a country in the urbanisation sense of the country development is largely due to these governments. I would warn the Parliament, for example, that Hungary was essentially bankrupt in the early 1870s. Thanks to the later failed Lónyay Heaven, some consolidation started, but we can only really recover and overcome the financial crises and budget deficits until the early 1880s, and only by the 1880s can we create economic opportunities for the country's development. [[Attila Móring József takes his place in the notary seat.]] If we look at the fact that the majority at that time were able to do legislative work that was the engine of the economy, then I think this is a useful time in any way. On the other hand, let us not forget that this era has its own big questions. We rarely put the events and the actors together, but during the Prime Ministership of Kálmán Tisza Gyula Andrássy leads the Monarchy, he is the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Monarchy, and this is the time when Central Europe, Europe and Hungary are faced with the Russian expansion in addition to panslavism. We are talking about two politicians in the case of Kálmán Tisza and Gyula Andrássy Sr. who considered it their political credo to protect Central Europe, the Central European region, and Hungary from the Russian expansion. If anyone goes down to the statue of Andrássy, the statue of Andrássy has two side depictions: one from the coronation of 1867 and the Berlin Congress from the other 1878. The Berlin Congress, which is a Hungarian success, an Austrian-Hungarian success, and the success of the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy in the world and in Europe, is about exactly how to stop the Russians, while in this debate Kálmán Tisza himself is undermining the need for military action in the 1870s and 1980s. So it is not only from a national point of view that the leader of the era and of the era, the individual leader of Tisza Kálmán, who is the general of his very strong and very determined fellow Members, deserves attention, but we can also witness a remarkable era in world political or European political context. No less significant is the other personality, István Tisza, who makes it necessary to establish the memorial place in any way, and we repay our great historical debt. Given the fact that I started with Protestantism the principle of what I have to say, allow me, Mr President, to take a detour here. In the work of the two prime ministers, I believe and believe that Protestantism plays a crucial role, so for the Hungarian government and the Hungarian Parliament, this is an opportunity never to return, to create a memorial place in Geszten, an abandoned, abandoned settlement in the eastern part of the country, in the spirit of the reunification of the Hungarian nation. I think that the Hungarian freedom efforts, the Hungarian independence efforts, the Hungarian national reinforcement efforts are inseparable from the XVIII. In his battles for Protestant ecclesiastical independence of the century, or when I think that Kálmán Tisza owes his political career to the patent that restricted the Reformed, Protestants, in their free religious practice, it can in any case be attributed and quoted. When I think that Gyula Kornis, who is known in this room and whose works are being filmed, The Man of State, will conduct every step of István Tisza's Protestantism and Reformation, he will lead his commitment in principle from here, the spirit of the place is even more visible. This era has its own big challenge. In this room, Kálmán Tisza falls into a defence debate, a two-year defence debate, the issue of which is the strengthening of Hungarian military positions within the independent Hungarian army and the Austrian-Hungarian joint army. Two small symbolic cases lead to street demonstrations and, in essence, to political weakening, which manifests itself in the resignation and then in the debate about Kossuth's citizenship, but in fact, the situation has already shown political failure in the defence. The great question of the era is whether Hungary can defend itself. In the early 1900s, the main issue in this House was no longer economic development, no longer budgetary debate, no more urbanisation and development of the country, but, to a decisive extent, how the elected parliamentary representatives of the time could defend this country, how they could prepare it militaryly for the upcoming war, and what position Hungary should take in. If someone looks at these Parliamentary Journals, it is quite shocking what national disunity the Parliament of that time shows. Between 1903 and 1905, or in 1912, as that bullet hole at the presidential pulpit testifies about it, the opposition virtually ruled out the possibility of Hungary participating in the war with power and opportunity, with the possibility of victory. István Tisza's entire work is about the theory that Hungary has its destiny, has its mission, and has its limitations; a war in Central Europe, which endangers Hungarian influence in Central Europe, actually risks Hungary's existence. In Trianon, this is confirmed, the literature of which between the two world wars can be sent here. Which is why I'm bringing this up here is a warning sign for the future. I am sure that one of the main issues of the next 5-10 years is the role, place and strength of Hungary and Hungarians in Central Europe. I don't think that can be answered with the disunity and the debate. I am sure that in the European political field it is also important to have a country's strength, economic strength, intellectual strength and, where appropriate, its defence capabilities. I think that today in Slovakia they buy weapons, buy weapons in Serbia, buy weapons in Romania, buy weapons in Croatia. And now I can't give the skills of the Hungarian army any substance here. So I would only draw attention to similar debates of the era and the consequences of national disunity in this regard. I would like to remind my fellow Members with due respect that the obligation to commemorate comes from political risks and political difficulties, and it is also due to the fact that we are in the centenary of the First World War and we also remember the Prime Minister of World War I, who in 1914 was able - despite the political history of being surrounded by serious hatred, as the previous example proves - to persuade the political opposition to suspend its active political activity during the war and to support the country and its leadership in the war. [[12.00]] He was able to convince the independenceists of this, and he was able to convince the 48's, and he managed to reach a political consensus between 1914 and mid-1916. So in István Tisza, we can also respect the Prime Minister of War, the leader of the country, but at the same time in this Chamber we must underline that he was able to establish a political consensus when it was necessary. Many wonder how the country's fate turned out in 1918. There was more debate in this room. There is consensus on the right as to the responsibility and role of Mihály Károlyi, and I would not blame that right now, but I would certainly suggest that the question is unanswered: if István Tisza had survived, what role and opportunity his personality would have had in Hungarian history. This reinforces the theory that the role of personality is important in the historical context. I am quite certain that if he wasn't killed, then in 1919 and then in 1920 the line of the country would be different. I dare say this because all documents confirm in a consistent manner that the provisions of Article XX do not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. In the first decades of the century, or between the two world wars, there was no Hungarian politician whose authority would have been comparable on the international stage. Despite the fact that the leader of a losing power, who effectively leads the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy between 1914 and 1917, according to the Austrians, may be said to have led the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy between 1914 and 1917, but we can say that with the greatest international authority, the greatest ability to assert interest, the most powerful and the most powerful politician, even if in October 1918 there was probably a complete consensus in the Hungarian public, that the entry into the war was a mistake, and that the war was partly lost because of him, or he led the country to war, which was proved not so between the two world wars, because on 1 July 1914 he himself protested in writing against entering the war with Serbia. I think that my fellow Members' time will not be wasted, and I will not bother you any longer, but in the Hungarian Government there are many of us working and in the majority of the Hungarian Parliament we are many who believe that it is our duty to commemorate Tisza, István Tisza, too, and it is our responsibility to give the Hungarian Reformed Church the opportunity to respect, honor, and preserve the memory of the two principal guardians of the Hungarian Reformed Church, while at the same time to warn the Hungarian Protestantism of its role in the 1700s, 1800s, 1900s and hopes for the following centuries. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-07-55	Thank you very much, Minister Lazarus. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Demeter, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2017-03-07-56	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There must be some for whom the T/14241. I think that this is more than just a simple legal act. After the change of government in 2010, my fellow Members and I spoke several times between the walls of the Parliament about the relationship between the state and the churches. There are countries in which the state and churches are almost in no way related, and in this circle they refer to America or France. Then there are times when we can talk about the Church of State, and the Danish People's Church is a very good example. In addition to the model of radical separation and the model of the Church of State, the literature still accounts for the so-called related model. Although this model is similar to the separation model to the separation model between the state and the church, it places emphasis on cooperation between the two, focusing on positive neutrality instead of neutral indifference while denying the idea of the Church of State. For me and for us at the moment of the birth of the Fundamental Law, it was not a question of our historic duty, on the one hand, to guarantee freedom of religion and, on the other hand, to establish the possibility of cooperation with the churches, which I believe can achieve a great deal by working together in the rise of the Hungarian nation and the Hungarian people. As a result of the considerations in principle, Article VII of the Fundamental Law in force provides that: I quote: The state and religious communities operate separately. Religious communities are independent. The State and religious communities can work together to achieve Community goals. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, The most powerful manifestation of the form of cooperation is the ecclesiastical performance of state tasks carried out by the church, in particular educational, social, family, child and youth protection and cultural tasks. The bill on the ownership of certain state-owned properties to the Reformed Church of Hungary extends the scope of the free transferability of the ownership of state property by amending the Law on State Property according to this criterion. I believe that the Tisza Castle of Gesti in the proposal, which, thanks to several smaller and larger enlargements, is still the 18th century. After the renovation, it can be a perfect place for the Reformed Church of Hungary, as it appears in the text of the bill, and I quote: for the purpose of the educational and further training centre, in order to promote cultural and religious functions. As has been said several times in the author's comment, in this form of cooperation between the state and the Reformed Church, I think that we cannot find a better time, because, as we know, 2017 is the commemorative year of the Reformation, a 500-year anniversary, which, thanks to God, the government considers to be an important event, and there are a lot of programmes attached to it. I trust that the congregations of small settlements will also take a large part in these programs. [[Attila Móring József will replace Attila Gelencsér in the notary seat.]] The inseparability of the Reformed Church and the Tisza family, as we have also heard, is indisputable. The Reformed István Tisza, who lived in all the things that Protestantism has always meant for Hungary, the Hungarian people, died on the Memorial Day of the Reformation. In October 1918 he didn't run from fate, but in Luther Worms, he stood there like he couldn't do otherwise. In his Reformed janitor's seat, he declared: "He is a Christian who humbles himself before his God, but lives in a strong language with his God, whom God's confidence in his mercy raises above the vanity, doubts, temptations and trials of this world. A Christian who is aware of the great problems of life and who is at rest in the will of God, is struggling with the struggle of life and accepting what fate has measured on him. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[12.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, The fate of the Tisza mansion was also sealed until recently, in a quotation mark, by the red wreaking of it, since it was looted and destroyed in September 1944, and its library was burned at the stake. I hope that, after the completion of the development under the National Castle Programme, the Tisza Castle in Gesta can have its original beauty, and the Reformed spirit can move back into it. However, as Minister has begun, we need the vote of the opposition, because we are talking about a two-thirds law, and I therefore respectfully ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-07-57	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-03-07-58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, In December 2016, the Government reviewed the National Castle Programme and the National Castle Programme. In the coming years, 40 locations will be developed and EU funds of HUF 40.4 billion will be provided. Within the framework of the revised national castle program, the Esterházy castle ensemble in Fertőd, the Széchenyi Castle ensemble in Nagycenk, the Festetics Castle ensemble in Keszthely and the park, the Royal Castle in Gödöllő and the Tisza Castle in Geszt. The main place of the national fortress is the castle of Esztergom, the castle of Visegrád, the castle of Visegrád, the tower of Solomon and the royal palace, the castle of Gyula and its island fortress, the castle of Eger, the castle of Sopron and the museum district associated with it, and the castle of Diósgyőr. Within the national castle programme, the revised project includes 15 additional development sites and 13 more development sites in the national castle programme. The HUF 40 416 800 000 required for the implementation of the EU-funded development for tourism should be provided by the Minister of National Economy, with the involvement of the Minister for National Development, under the framework of the operational programme for economic development and innovation. In 2017, 3 538 679 870 HUF was allocated to the national castle program in the prime minister's chapter of the Finance Act. For the purchase of works of art necessary for the authentic installation of monuments, the Minister of National Economy will have to provide HUF 200 million a year in the budget in a one-off manner next year, and from 2018 in a durable manner, incorporating the amount of the previous year. The municipality of Gegest sold the Tisza Castle to the state years ago, which in turn undertook to erect a new building for the Arany János Primary School in it, supplemented by a gym. A government decision was also taken in 2015. The expected cost of the investment was estimated at HUF 544 million based on 2015 data. We have now heard in the Minister's report that this HUF 500 million is already a billion forints, from which a school, kindergarten and community cuisine will be built in this settlement and the castle will be renovated for HUF 2.5 billion. I think it is very nice that in a peaceful settlement of 900 people, such an investment can be made, a new school for children, a new kindergarten and a new kitchen. But I would like to draw the Minister's attention - because he said in his introduction, in his speech - that in Békés county, when a person drives or visits this area, he encounters a road network that is not much in Hungary anymore. Then I would invite Minister to my district, I would show you a few more in Hajdú-Bihar county - and not in such a small settlement, but I live in Kaban - the route connecting Püspökladány with Nádudvar or the route Nádudvar-Hajdúszoboszló, or I could go to smaller settlements, I could also mention the route connecting Bihartorda with Sáp, and even in the Bihari section a lot. I would very much like it, because rural settlements and these small settlements are very important to me too, so that they can survive in Hungary and not be listed among those settlements who, although they have made billions of investments, will disappear from the map, because the population cannot make a living. I would like to ask Minister some questions. It is very important that these investments are realised, but will locals, will local entrepreneurs renovate the castle, or do we know who will receive billion-dollar assignments in Hungary today, and will local entrepreneurs, Békés county entrepreneurs, build the school, kindergarten and kitchen? Perhaps one of the most important reasons why we can support this initiative is that this castle will not fall into the hands of Viktor Orbán and his family. This is a step forward on the part of the government if it is to hand over ownership to the Reformed Church. And I would like to ask Minister, and perhaps I will, perhaps not to this law, but to propose it in the budget, because soon we will also be discussing it, because it would be very important for me to talk about the Reformation, if the Reformed Church in Kaba could finally be renewed and the government would also provide resources for it. [[Sándor Bodo intervenes.]] It could be solved with a lot less money. It is true that there is no Kaban castle, there were no noble lords, we hope that there will not be any in the next period, but it would be very important for the people of Kaba to say that the Reformed church can be renewed. It would be very important for the children of Kaba to renew their state-owned school. I ask you, Minister, to pay attention to public schools as well. We also want our primary school to be renewed. There are very few schools in our area that have not been renovated. I would like to ask Minister Sándor Bodó, together with Fidesz, to pay attention to our area, the road network, because we also live in a backward eastern region in Hajdú-Bihar County, and it is very important for us to develop these areas. Minister, it is very important for a settlement of 900 people to renew these buildings, to build a new school, but one of the most important things in the life of a settlement is to create jobs. A settlement can only survive if it is able to offer a vision for the young people living there and the children who are born there. I think that one of the most important steps after that is not just the road network, but not just the monuments, but also factual jobs, existing jobs and new jobs. What are the chances of this happening in this settlement in the next period? I think one of the most important things is that these schools are built. I welcome the Minister's statement that a kindergarten, a school and a kitchen will be built in this settlement, and I would very much ask the government to pay such attention to the rest of the backward countryside so that these institutions can be built. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-03-07-59	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Mr László Szászfalvi, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2017-03-07-60	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Dear Minister, The KDNP parliamentary group has always given priority to our national cultural values and their salvation and reconnection to the nation's cultural circulation. The Tisza Castle in Gegest, in the bill before us, is a national cultural value that we have a moral obligation to save and bring to the service of the common good. Therefore, the KDNP faction welcomes and supports the government's presentation. [[12.20]] Dear House, For centuries, the Reformed Tisza family has played a decisive role in Hungarian public life, as a political leader, as a state official or in other areas. Obviously, it is not possible to analyse this wide-ranging public activity in the framework of a short speech, but we have to conclude that there were few families in Hungarian history whose members played an active and committed role in the world of Hungarian politics, in the world of Hungarian national politics, such as the Tisza family. The castle of Gegest is not only the ancient nest of the family, but also the symbolic value of our national heritage. He tells us that we need to appreciate our values in the thunderstorms of our history, that our enormous task is to save our national heritage, our buildings, our rural castles, to rebuild them and to provide them with a function that serves our national community. It is our historic responsibility and mission, therefore, to fulfill this task with the time and opportunities given to us. So, in our view, the bill serves this purpose. Dear Parliament, The fate of the Tisza Castle in Gegest after 1945 was a castaway fate. Surely this fate also symbolizes the puke fate of Hungarian history after 1945, total disintegration, collapse, vulnerability, irresponsibleness, total lack of national identity and sovereignty. Then, after some exemplary municipal attempts and the experience of the past decades, the government's bill actually represents the consistency in which we can find a definitive solution for the Tisza Castle in Gestez: on the one hand, according to a parallel government presentation and government work, the complete reconstruction of the castle will be carried out, and on the other hand, the renovated castle will be handed over to the Reformed Church in Hungary to perform educational, cultural and community tasks on the basis of this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, This concept and concrete package of measures will finally create the optimal situation in which this high value of our national heritage, its building is completely renovated in its old light and XXI. After its modernization in the century, it will be handed over to a maintainer that will ensure its long-term and effective operation and its return to the circulation of our national culture and national community. Ladies and gentlemen, The Reformed Church of Hungary is the 16th. He has been committed to serving the Hungarian people, the Hungarian society since the first century. I am pleased to mention here the national mission of my alma mater, the Reformed College of Debrecen, and then the Hungarian nation, with which he has served the Hungarian Reformation since 1538. The centuries-old activity of the Reformed Church has served the public good, both in the fields of education, health, social, diaconia and culture, as well as in preserving and strengthening our national survival and sovereignty. The Tisza family played a prominent role in the life of this Reformed Church, in addition to its outstanding role in public life. They took on and declared their Reformed Christian faith, and they also served their church as senior officials, chief guardians. [[Attila Gelencsér is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]] Dear House, Surely it is no coincidence that we will make this decision on the 500th anniversary of the Reformation, and we will make it. This symbolic message is the decision that not only is the anniversary of 2017, we not only want to remember the past, but we also look ahead, we not only drive past the beautiful past, but we want to do and act for the future; that by standing on the giants of our Hungarian history as a rock solid foundation, if we mention the iconic figures of the Hungarian Reformation or we are building the future, the person of Kálmán Tisza and István Tisza. The solution proposed therefore serves well to save our national heritage, to serve the common good, to serve the development of not only the motherland but also the Partium, and to serve well the rise of a disadvantaged settlement and region. On this basis, the KDNP parliamentary group supports the bill and we ask the other groups to do so. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-07-61	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor, notary.
u2017-03-07-62	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, In the beginning, as I said yesterday, I would like to state, of course and obviously, that the Group of Jobbik will support this proposal. Let me add immediately that the work that you personally carry on in respect of István Tisza's work, his way of life, respect for his martyrdom and memory is very welcome, and we can only thank you for that, and this is supported in every respect by Jobbik's faction. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Wait a minute. If you mentioned much about the Tisza family in your introduction and provided us with a very wide view here, let me add one thing: unfortunately, everything you have just told us is practically missing from Hungarian education. To tell you the truth, this is going to be a personal confession, one of the biggest and most decisive and decisive reading experiences of my life is the combined publication, let's say, it was a book that was the trial of István Tisza's murderers, and the court record of it, an extremely shocking reading. We often argue in this House about what the mandatory readings for children should be, let's say, for high school students. I'll tell you honestly, no matter how weird it is, maybe I'd make it one of the most important mandatory readings, because the names are in it, and there's a list of who's been standing on that issue two years or a year and a half after the event, and a very instructive reading in all aspects, I can tell you. Perhaps, if this document were part of public education, many other historical situations and historical figures would be judged differently by the Hungarian population, it would not be possible to talk about the Autumn Revolution, or that word or concept should exist in Hungarian history, as would many others, not to mention white terrorism and anything else. However, back to the bill before us, the Minister has answered many things, but I would also like to clarify a few more questions. So, if I understand correctly, it will not be the parish or diocese, but the council itself will be the owner and trustee of this, and it has also become clear to us that the state will also provide the necessary costs for maintenance in the coming years. [[12.30]] If I understand correctly, all the current functions will be placed elsewhere, both in the cultural house, in the library and in the school, so that no function will cease, but will be provided everywhere. I do not know, and I would like you to help me in this, Minister, that the English park around the Tisza Castle, which is now a nature reserve, is also transferred to the property of the Reformed Church during the handover; that is to say, whether that particular location number contains the entire area of the English park. We have another very important memory, the Golden John Memorial House, in the same way, so I think that the worthy care of his memory will also be the task of the next owner. I also think this gesture is very important because this year is the 500th anniversary of the Reformation, and I also think - as a member of the Reformed Church, self-critically - that our own church is not doing enough and does not do everything to care for the heroes of the faith. Of course, we often refer to the heroes of hundreds of years ago, to their lives, but to those who basically defined our recent life, we pay little attention; so unfortunately, István Tisza's memory is also cherished, but let us add that the care of Governor Horthy's memory is, unfortunately, less important for the Reformed Church. Perhaps this will be an opportunity for the lives of our present - day heroes to be proud and accepted by the Reformed Church as truly exemplary lives for all of us. I would like to ask you, Minister, whether this proposal has been agreed in any way with the members of the family, i.e. the members of the Tisza family who are currently living. Unfortunately, the descendants of many of our historical families already have little contact with the motherland, as many of them have been broken up and permanently separated from the mother country, but not so István Tisza's family. I think that to this day, the memory of the Tisza family's ancestors is important to them. We know in part that they no longer live in Hungary, but wherever fate has cast them, they stand up everywhere, so I also know with regard to relatives living in America that they play a very important role in the community where they live. I also know that the Tisza family's legacy is very important to them, not only this building that we are talking about, but also other castle buildings. So I think that it would be an important gesture for them, too, if this transfer of property could happen by giving them some kind of, at least partial, use or right of use by the church. In this connection, let me mention one thing: unfortunately, there are many castles where the former owners can hardly be found, or even if they can be found, but they do not think that they can ever be found within the property. Obviously, this is not the case here either, obviously I am not talking about giving it into possession, but perhaps this is the place, the opportunity where the state and the church could practice this gesture together. But for example, if I knew yesterday and had the opportunity to talk about the Károlyi castle in the children's town of Fót, there are also two members of the Károlyi family, a couple renting the apartment where they currently live from the state itself. In this respect, it may be important to carry out a general survey on where there are former family descendants of the Lord who could be called back to Hungary in some way, so that they can take possession of their former heritage, at least partially. This could be a very important historical gesture, and let me finally mention one thing in this regard. How important it would be if, for example, the Lovassy mansion, Lovassy villa, could return to its previous owners! Why is it that, to this day, the decision to execute the 1956 heroes, the little clan, when he announced here, in this Parliament that the execution was carried out, Imre Nagy was executed, that he could receive the assignment of that fork, on the basis of which he might have been the owner of this fork? Perhaps if we wanted to make a point once and for all about the change of regime, this decision could also be revoked and the former owners or their descendants could be re-established within possession. I do not know if the Hungarian government has such an intention, obviously this could not only be mentioned in connection with this building, but there are many other buildings that could be listed, but perhaps this could be a truly symbolic gesture. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-07-63	Thank you very much, Congresswoman, notary. I now give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, who is speaking on behalf of the Group of the LMP.
u2017-03-07-64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Minister, First of all, I would like to point out that may Other Politics considers the social role of churches to be extremely important as a community of values, not only in carrying out social, cultural and educational tasks taken over from the state, but also in the pursuit of faith-life activities, to be supported and supported. At the same time, I would also like to say that the LMP, as a party responsible for the future generation, considers the preservation of national wealth to be of particular importance, so it speaks out and takes action against all the efforts that the government would put national wealth at risk. And here I am going to go to the point that I have not heard in connection with previous speeches by the lead speaker, which I am concerned about, and that is that, in fact, this proposal would change the law on national property in general and create the possibility of a free transfer of wealth to the churches, not only for the sake of a State task taken over, but also for the purpose of supporting faith-life activities. So it creates a situation for the future, it is practically a flagship, an icebreaking project in the present gesti, but then, if we interpret it correctly, it sets a precedent, and any similar transfer of property can happen on the basis of this current amendment. In addition, we believe that this proposal, not the specific one itself, but in general violates the principle of sector neutrality, so that, for example, funds cannot be given to foundations free of charge. Nor does it harmonize with the system of resources to be given to churches to take over state tasks and with the established system of support for religious activity, break the principles in this area and establish ad hoc government powers to distinguish between different churches, do so with a lack of wealth transfer or benefit, so it can influence. What's wrong with that? The problem with that is that it's for the churches... [[György Szilágyi: Nothing.]] Yes, you can, Congressman. The provision of resources or wealth to churches is not a normative framework, but can be done depending on individual government decisions, and this also means that it is suitable to keep churches and religious organizations financially dependent, because what has been handed over to them can be restored by the same move. So the normative system is badly affected here, and it certainly puts the churches in an addictive, blackmailable position, even more blackmailable position, which, I think, is unacceptable. For the churches, the state should provide resources in a transparent, normative, sector-neutral system for the tasks assumed, and support for the faith-life activity should, for the time being, take place in the pre-defined order, as is the case for, for example, 1 percent. Under the current rules, the State has the opportunity to transfer assets to the churches for the purpose of carrying out their duties, and ownership is a concern and concerns are raised about the protection of national assets. [[12.40]] I think that this is highly thought-out in this regard. I have a few questions, and I expect an answer from the Minister. For example, the park mentioned by the previous speaker, which belongs to the castle, is a 27-acre area under the control of the Körös-Maros National Park. Does the handover apply to this, too? We have received an answer to what was not clear before about the fate of the library and primary school in the castle; we are glad to have a nice building. The numbers are a little surprising, but we will certainly look into them in more detail, and we will also look into the reasons for this high cost. We think, and indeed, as has been said, that the country has not only one or two such districts, it has several districts where there are similar conditions, which the Minister has seen, and it would certainly be good to have them pay similar attention and visit them. I would like to draw attention to one more little thing - not even a trifle - and this is the fact that, based on the census data of 2001, the Szeghalma small region does not claim to belong to any religious community. I don't think that's particularly relevant, but I'll keep that in mind. From everything that has been said, however, either by the Minister or in the keynote speeches, I have noticed that the appreciation of the Tisza family is of particular importance. We are talking about a castle, a national cultural value, which has a scandalous past, and which is very unworthy of its present, and, as has been said, I think the Tisza family's appreciation is absolutely correct in very, very many ways, but this is not for the family - I am in such a lucky position to know some of the living members of the family personally - this will be returned to a church. Even though I am aware of how well the church's expectations are met by the kind of statesman activity performed by members of the Tisza family, it is still the church who receives it. I'm not saying the family should have this, but the family is appreciated, the church gets it, I don't see the indirect connection in this way. However, allow me to say a few more words about the Tisza family, because it is indeed the activity, the public activity that they have done, that it is honorable, that it has also brought this respect from our contemporaries. The education, including even István Tisza, that he studied in Oxford, or that knowledge, the judicial authority that this man displayed, that knowledge and consistency, is respectable, and that moral attitude, which, in spite of all that, is not personal, but with respect, I commend you to your attention. Indeed, if men with moral standards like István Tisza were to lead the country, there would be less such moral concerns. It's a little something. It was said, if I remember correctly, from the Minister's mouth, that they were born in Geszt, that they were born in Geszt. I think it is important to clarify that Tisza Kálmán was born in Oradea on 16 December 1830, and István Tisza was born in 1860. [[Interview from the ranks of Fidesz: -61!]] - And on 22 April 1861 he was born in Budapest, it's just a little clarification. Once again turning back, otherwise interesting is this ringing. If we link this with the celebration of the 500th year of Reformation, then, I think that a nice gesture - a little word play: a gesture, a gesture - is that in some way expressed by the state, but surely this is the reformed church's main desire to receive such an allowance. The concrete gesture itself is a nice thing, I think, and as such to be supported, but I am expressing our concern, as I said earlier, about the fact that this is not happening in a normative system, and indeed it is about national wealth, and it can have consequences which are any other similar transfer of wealth, which certainly raises the responsibility, to think about the responsibility of whether we can do so. I'd say a little bit like that. A few months ago, we also discussed the Habsburg Foundation, and there we said that hiding behind some kind of beautiful idea is practically an icebreaker, as a wedge, as a single project, who knows what the consequences are. With these concerns, I would like to conclude the speech and express the fact that we consider the gesture itself to be beautiful, but there are a lot of problems and questions that still arise here. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-03-07-65	Thank you very much, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2017-03-07-66	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. I would like to reflect partly on what has been said and, in part, I would like to add to the keynote speeches that have been made so far. First of all, I respect the questions, requests and comments of my fellow Members, which draw attention to the general problems of urban development and territorial development, which is why I started by saying that this is actually an area-habilitation and settlement rehabilitation programme, because a national institution of a church is included in this facility, a national institution of a historic church. It is not, therefore, that a partial part of it would be treated by a church, but that the Reformed Council would be the owner and would commit to the operation of a national institution against the State. This is partly an answer to whether it is an individual or a Community interest; this is a Community interest, an establishment for Community purposes. On the other hand, this is important for Geszt, because certain steps have already been taken to develop the settlement. I mentioned the construction of the new school, the construction of the new kindergarten, and I can also mention that the building itself serves a community purpose, as I just mentioned, and will be open to the community. We keep the park state-owned, but we're going to treat it because I think we need a unified treatment after the complete renovation. At the moment it was 15 hectares, but twice before it was 15 hectares, so we are talking about 30 or a few hectares, some of which is privately owned at the moment, as far as I know, 8 hectares of land could be fully rehabilitated after the possible buy-back. Now what is available, and what is around the house, is only a fraction of what was before; it is and remains in national park treatment, but we would also like to do a rehabilitation of this. Several things have been mentioned, fellow Members, allow me to answer here. First of all, if I have good memories, István Tisza studied in Heidelberg and Berlin, he did not study in Oxford, Mr. Congressman - if we are already competing to correct each other - but Móric Esterházy, who was former Prime Minister after István Tisza, studied in Oxford, and Winston Churchill had his classmate, so the idea of Oxford is not bad either. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] My second point is that they weren't born in Chest, they were born in Geszt, and that is perhaps more accurate in linguistic terms. All I would add is that Kálmán Géresi, who was the tutor of István Tisza, is a teacher of the Debrecen College, an excellent Reformed public educator, educator and teacher, wrote several recollections, which are suitable for the reconstruction of life in Gest, and he accurately describes the fact that the life form of the lowland, the commitment to the lowland man, was actually a political program, not just a personal commitment. In the Tisza oeuvre, in the oeuvre of István Tisza and in the actions of Kálmán Tisza, it is possible to follow that the Great Plain is constantly being developed, and the most valuable part of Hungarian society is considered the peasant world, and by strengthening the peasant world, whether by dividing the land, I would add that they wanted to implement social programs as well. [[12.50]] So I think that the link between the Great Plain and the Tisza is completely clear and above all doubt. And I can now say here that Lajos Tisza, who has not mentioned so far, wrote his name in Hungarian history as a rebuilder of Szeged. And this kind of cultural commitment could be quoted for centuries. Perhaps Hegedűs wrote a book - correct it if not - Two Andrássys, called two Tiszas, in which precisely this spiritual difference is suggested by the people of the mountains and the people of the plains, the lowland and the two families of the Low Carpathians. What I would like to respond to here is that my fellow Members may also rightly talk about political puritanism and political puritanism. I agree with 100% that today both Tiszas can serve as an example for politicians who run the country and do not lead the country. Kálmán Tisza Kálmán Mikszáth Kálmán wrote and sang it well, in the Library of Parliament, I think it is written in volumes that can be turned on with a lesson, but in the case of István Tisza this may be even more charismatic. The difference between the two people was substantial, the strength of one was the pragmatism, the ability to achieve it, and the strength of the other was insane in principle, almost obstinate. I am sure that political puritanism, as well as politics and puritanism, is a political programme. In both cases, it is generally safe to say that Protestantism is a political programme. Let's talk about things we don't like to talk about, and we don't like to talk about it, or because it's embarrassing, or because it's inappropriate. In the case of the Tisza family, the fact that Tisza Kálmán ran the country for 15 years did not deal with his own property. He also testifies to this in the recollection of István Tisza and in some records. In this Parliament there was a tasteless debate when István Tisza became a Member of Parliament, who became a Member of Parliament at the same time as Gyula Andrássy Jr., and the opposition representatives screamed that Herberts, which concerned Bismarck's son, Herbert Bismarck, who also became a Member of Parliament, had not come to Parliament because of their own knowledge, not because of their own ability, but because of the political performance of the parents and the two fathers. This shows that personalism was not far from political culture. On the other hand, before the turn of the century, before becoming Prime Minister for the first time in the 1890s, István Tisza also took part in the management of several banks, insurance companies, railway companies or the Sugar Factory of the Great Plain, which had shareholders. The point is that this is why many were attacked, in which he notes that if his father had dealt not with the affairs of the country but with his own property management, this economic engagement would not have been necessary. I'm only telling you this because it's a good example that anyone who wants to serve the cause of the country has to put aside their own personal finances. As in the Reformed Church of the 18th. From the first century onwards, secular people have been called janitors, chief caretakers, to help the church's cause with their own wealth, relationships, knowledge and economic outlook, and the same has been the case for politics. Not only did these two people take responsibility and work in the church to serve the Church's cause, but they were driven by motivation in both the matter of home and parliament, essentially free of personal material interests. This is very important because, after the compromise, the issue of conflict of interest and the financial debate constantly poisons the air of this House. She fell for the fact that she was involved in financial disputes with her own party of government and the opposition. Ferenc Deák once put on a coat in the old Parliament that one of his friends said it belonged to, and he said it wasn't possible because he had pockets full or pockets too big. This alone was morally enough in the 1870s, that Lónyay fell into political activity a few months later and was branded as a corrupt man. Kálmán Tisza has often been accused of bringing together the majority of Parliament with vassal force, which was greatly needed in those parliamentary debates and times, but as regards the two Tiszas and their integrity, there has never been any case that could have questioned personal credit or personal credibility from a material point of view. So in the sense that, Congresswoman, they can be political role models in terms of money and politicians, money and privacy, there is no doubt about it. István Tisza also told his family that it would involve material sacrifices if he took political or prime minister work. Moreover, I think it is because I think it is the duty of the Hungarian Reformed Church to cultivate the memory of the Tiszak - I think it is right to say this - but the building also has a modern community function. So part of the satisfaction to the family, because we've fixed the crypt, we're gonna get the part of the castle in which the memorial center can function, and also satisfaction to the Reformed Church, an opportunity to accomplish what it wants to do in the spirit of community building. It's not just Gesten, there's no misunderstanding. The congressman said that the number of people practicing their religion in this area is low. This is usually the case in Békés county, even if it is not in the Szeghalmi district, but in the Sarkadi district, when we are talking about repairing each other. My second point is that this must bring together the Hungarian Reformation of the Carpathian Basin and provide an opportunity for the Hungarian Reformation of the Carpathian Basin. I consider this to be a very important thing. In consultation with the Council President István Szabó... [[To intervene:]] Excuse me, Congressman, if I was mistaken by mistake, I'd be slashy. Excuse me, we are having a debate here - at last some exciting parliamentary debate... With regard to the issues, I would also like to say that I agree with the criticism of education. It's one thing to learn little about it, but how they learn about it is another problem. It is important to understand the links that during the time of Kálmán Tisza there will be a strong Hungarian national state that is competitive with Germany and competitive in Central Europe and can be a factor of power. So Hungary is not a side player on the political map of Europe, but a major power factor, they are able to organize - not the Austrians, because this is organised by Hungarian people - a strong Hungarian state. There's only one way to learn from them. From Baross, traffic management, as public education was organised, as the rules of the economy were laid down. It's a school example, and it's the only thing you can learn from it, in my opinion. The threats to Central Europe or the dangers to Hungary: the whole era is about whether there will be a right to vote or no right to vote or what right to vote will be. Why? Because if the citizens of Hungary are given suffrage, then those who claim to be non-Hungarian may be the majority, because we have a 50 percent majority or a relative majority in the Carpathian Basin alone. This is the most important political issue of the era. By the way, István Tisza was not a fan of universal suffrage in this sense, nor was Gyula Andrássy Jr., who opposed him, because the country fell apart. When I think about what happened in 1918 and whether nationalities were loyal to the Hungarian majority, then time finally confirmed this assumption. So the democratic opposition, in no way, was right, because I think it was more important to keep and maintain the country together. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Let me bring it here at the very end - I have partially answered your questions, and I will look at them in part, which have been raised - that in the line of heroic deeds, in the line of heroic acts that are not underestimated by the political example, what happened in 1914-16 is not underestimated. Therefore, in 1916 and 17 the Allied powers on the European battlefield were victorious until America entered. In 1917 the Allied powers won until America entered. This was partly or decisively due to István Tisza, who defended his country twice during the war. Once, when the Russians were already putting Košice at risk. Russian propaganda on Russian Christmas 1914 was that they would be in Budapest by Easter in 1915. He also organized military control in the hands of the recapture of the country and the displacement of the Russians beyond the Carpathians. It is an eternal historical lesson that they should not be allowed inside the Carpathians. The other is the Romanian break-in in 1916, when the Romanians take over Szeklerland, and he personally organizes the military resistance while the king is dying, while a major change must be made, as there is a new ruler. And in 1917 he didn't retire sulking, but went to the front, serving as commander of the Hussar Regiment of Debrecen, setting an example for all politicians. I'm just going to ask you, I'm not going to judge the front service that Mihály Károlyi has undertaken and under what circumstances he's done for the front. I am only bringing this here because of the difference in human quality, because I think that there is a substantial difference not only in performance but also in quality. And in the end, I would like two more things that the reverend gentlemen have mentioned behind my back. This is that they are in the case of the Reformation, who say that they gave two speeches of theologically meaningful and high quality, one in 1909 and the other on the occasion of the 400th anniversary of the Reformation in 1917. [[13.00]] One of them tells us what the world's historical merit of reformation is. This can be summarised as giving the Scriptures into the hands of all. So it's against the rule of dogma. Protestantism is democratic, popular democracy is, in fact, Protestantism, and it gives the Scriptures into the hands of everyone. The other is that you have to find your own faith - that's what you say in 1917. With the eternal and honest search for truth, each one must find his own faith, and he must form it himself. With all this, thank you for your support.
u2017-03-07-67	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to address Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the notary of the Parliament, for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2017-03-07-68	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. We totally agree with every word he says. I'd just like to make one small addition. I really liked what you said about political puritanism. He also mentioned Lónyay's Weasel as having failed to undertake precisely this political puritanism in the life. Well, what does God do, Lónyay Heaven, take that railway line to the courtyard of his own mansion in Tuzséri. To this day, how many eternal lessons can there be? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-07-69	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I am speaking to Mr József Kovács of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-07-70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, As Parliamentary Representative of the 3rd Constituencies of Békés County, I consider it my duty and feel that I should comment on the bill on the granting of certain state-owned properties to the Reformed Church in Hungary. My responsibility for the region, some local historical and historical knowledge, at least partially entitles me to speak. I would like to say to Mr Szeghalm, that part of this constituency is the small region in the Arctic, which also includes Geszte, the Szeghalm region and many other regions of the Eastern Peaceful region. Geszt is located in the area of the National Park of Körös-Maros, in the area of Mezőgyán, Geszt, Zsadány, where there are large, landscapely spectacular nature forests, most of which were planted by the Tisza family at the time. From the mouth of people living in folklore, especially in the capital and larger settlements, it is said to be a place behind God's back. However, we locals are sure that this region is not only kind to us, but also to the Creator, because it surpasses its historical role by a thousand times. It is therefore particularly justified to manage and develop this area. It follows from what has just been said that the government, in the context of ensuring an adequate road approach to the Tisza Castle and the crypt in Gest, and in the context of the lifting of the isolation of the village of Geszt, is on the road reconstruction of the village of Geszt, 1541/2014. On the basis of a government decision, in April 2016, it started to renovate the road section and completed it in due time, to the joy of all of us together, complementing the renovation of the road to the crypt. The village of Geszt was owned by the Tisza family in 1760. The owner was also called István Tisza, and on 9 September this year he was admitted to the estate of Gest. In 1772, his son, László Tisza, built the ground-floor mansion, which is the core of today's castle, probably using earlier buildings. Count István Tisza upgraded the building in 1902, introduced the electricity, connected the telephone line, but it is also associated with his name and the terrace raised at the time of the meeting of the wings, which was the family's favorite residence in the summer. The castle now has a 15-hectare landscape park and numerous outbuildings, the former stables still standing are now in a life-threatening state, the local kindergarten is located in the former, now significantly modified hunting house, and the Arany János Primary School is currently in operation in the castle. Close to the school and the castle, János Arany, the home teacher of the family, wrote the beautiful poems that we all remember this year in connection with the 200-year anniversary. The mausoleum and crypt of the Tisza family, in which 33 family members, including István Tisza, Prime Minister Kálmán Tisza, rest, are located in the old cemetery northwest of the castle building. Békés county and Hungarian Protestantism are inseparable. In the county's folk arts, culture and, of course, in the life of faith, the memories and heritage of the Reformation are embodied in everyday life. The 500th anniversary, mentioned several times, is an excellent opportunity to summarize them and to cherish their heritage. The Reformed Peacefuls are proud of their faith inherited from their ancestors. The Reformed Church is the 16th. Since the second half of the century, he has played a decisive role in the cultural, educational and public education of the Tiszantú and the Partium. The Church District of Tiszanyúl is still the Reformed Church District of the country, representing and serving most believers. As a result of centuries of activity, such centers as the Reformed College of Debrecen, founded in 1538, became the centre of public education in the region, where such prominent personalities as Márton Kálmáncsehi, Péter Méliusz Juhász or Mihály Csokonai Vitéz, who also made up our literature, marked the teaching work. In the cultural life of Tiszantúl, the activities of the Reformed Church as a school founder, maintenance and institution manager have resulted in a huge recovery. The results of both the region and the entire Hungarian community in cultural and educational fields are closely linked to the Reformed institutions and key personalities of the Tiszantúl. Article 19 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. By the end of the 20th century, the elementary school network, the church's secondary schools, higher education institutions, as well as printers, associations and cultural initiatives related to the Reformation were important drivers of the development of the region until 1945. Since the change of regime, the Reformed Church District of Tiszanyúl, currently holding some 410 congregations, is once again engaged in an important mission in the region's life. In addition to the Reformed University of Debrecen, 9 secondary schools, 25 primary schools, two primary art schools, 10 kindergartens and 51 social institutions are currently operated. In order not only to talk home, I would like to note that cooperation between the state and the churches can not only be limited to the Reformed Church in Hungary. Just think of the recently adopted bill, according to which the Hungarian Israeli community in Budapest received the Árpád prince's synagogue on the road for the purpose of faith, the Catholics got property under the number 2 of Semmelweis Street in Tatabánya, and a property in Zugló was transferred from the state to the Hungarian metropolitan church. To add, these steps are very correct. [[13.10]] Whether it is a social, educational, cultural or youth education goal, the Hungarian state always finds an excellent cooperation partner in the churches. It is also of particular importance for the further development of the Gestian region that the Reformed Church remains an active player in the Transdanubian public life. In order to be able to perform its tasks even more effectively and to fulfil its centuries-old mission on the wider spectrum, it is necessary to hand over the Tisza Castle in Gest. The educational and cultural centre to be created there not only serves the Reformed community, it benefits not only the settlement through the resulting jobs, but it can also give new impetus to cultural and educational development and perhaps to preserve the memory of the Tisza family. That is why I ask you to support this bill that is important to us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-03-07-71	Thank you very much, Congressman. Since all the lectures and speeches took place on a historical scale, I am obliged to note that Hungary's first Reformed High School and College were also founded in 1530 in Tiszántúra, four years after Mohács, and this is the Reformed High School and College of Mezőtúr. Thank you. I ask my fellow Members if they still wish to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Congressman Miklós Simon applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2017-03-07-72	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I can wholeheartedly support the reconstruction of the Tisza Castle in Gest, and its devotion to the Reformed Church. I do this as a representative of the Kállay mansion that was renewed in Kállay Manor in 2013-14. This mansion, the ancient nest of the Kállay family, was very emasculated in socialism, and thank God, after 50-60 years, this mansion shines in its old glory. I would like to thank the government of national solidarity for supporting the renewal and renovation of the Kállay mansion in Nyíregyháza and Kállósemjén, and in particular thank you, Minister, for this, because it is important, my fellow Members, that children who go to the Kállay mansion in Kállayjén, in our region, see or can go in and see the legacy of Miklós Kállay, and I think they can appreciate the memory of the ancient Hungarian families. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-03-07-73	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr. Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, if he wishes to make use of the closing opportunity following the grand presentation of János Lázár. [[Nándor Csepreghy says no.]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, Annex 7 to the International Health Regulations of the World Health Organisation follows in Geneva on 24 May 2014, World Health Organization 67. General debate on the draft law on the publication of the amendment adopted by its Assembly until its closure. The government referral is T/14240. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Gustáv Ónodi-Szűcs, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-07-74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Looking at the previous expedition, my proposal will be much more prosaic and much less elevated, so I apologize in advance, but it is the subject that has to be this way, which is why I can only provide you with technical information. So what we have here in front of Parliament today is the integration of a treaty into a Hungarian legal order. The roots of this come from 2005 and the WHO adopted international health regulations in 2005. This became applicable since June 2007, and in 2009 XCI became a member of the Hungarian legal order. It was introduced by Act No. Today, it is just that there is an annex to this which regulates vaccination against yellow fever, and on the basis of the new professional guidelines, it is no longer necessary to renew vaccination every ten years, because it appears that those vaccinated 30-35 years ago have a high enough level of antibodies in the blood to prevent them from being re-inoculated. Therefore, all that is happening is that NER has modified this, and now we would like to redirect this into the Hungarian legal order. So I look forward to seeing if there may be any political problems in this matter, I am at the disposal of the honourable opposition and the ladies and gentlemen of this House. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-03-07-75	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Bene Ildikó. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-03-07-76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Yellow fever, unfortunately, is found in the equatorial regions of Africa, South America, even today, and it is also important to know that practically in these endemic areas, it will be raised from time to time. It is a fulminant, high percentage, extremely serious, fatal disease, and it is the only disease, as the Secretary of State said, which the WHO has in the International Health Regulations with a special status, by determining which countries may require compulsory vaccination when entering the country, and even discuss the sanctions that may be possible if this does not happen. And indeed, in May 2014, the WHO Strategic Advisory Board on Vaccines proposed that this vaccination should not be repeated after ten years, and that there is no need for a repeat vaccination, because, as the Secretary of State said, there is decades of experience in maintaining a level of protection after a single vaccination that can provide adequate protection against the disease. So it's practically a life-long effect of a single vaccination. And so it was, at the 67th WHO General Assembly, that Annex 7 to the NER was amended, and we would, in effect, now like to include it in our legal order. I think the point is that the only dose of the vaccine to prevent yellow fever provides lifelong prevalence, there is no need for a booster vaccination, and that the vaccination against yellow fever in international vaccination certificates practically makes its validity lifelong. I believe that this is a Eligible proposal, and I trust that my fellow Members will see it the same way. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-03-07-77	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-03-07-78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A yellow fever vaccine may be required from passengers arriving from areas where the body considers that there is a risk of yellow fever spreading. States Parties shall designate in their territories special yellow fever vaccination centres to ensure the quality and safety of the procedures used and vaccines. A State Party which has the agent of yellow fever on its territory may require a valid vaccination certificate against yellow fever coming from the territory at risk of spreading yellow fever to be issued to a non-sustainable passenger to be placed under an epidemiological quarantine until the date of validity of the certificate. [[13.20]] According to the previous provisions of Annex 7, vaccination against yellow fever had to be repeated 10 years after its administration in order to be presumed to be continuous protection. Under the new provisions, yellow fever vaccination provides lifelong protection, i.e. it does not need to be repeated every 10 years to maintain protection. Of course, the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party can support this initiative. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-03-07-79	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr László György Lukács. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-07-80	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I must dishearten Mr. State Secretary, or perhaps he will be more pleased with it, and I do not wish to argue on this clearer fact that, in accordance with the recommendation of the international organisation, we need the Hungarian legislative act, and we need to accept it. On the one hand, we cannot, we cannot, it is the competence of others. The legislation is in itself okay, so I suggest that we move on with our lives. The Jobbik Hungary Movement supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-07-81	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak, whether for two minutes or for a proper speech. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr State Secretary if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah, no, I appreciate that, too, so thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the draft law on private international law pending its conclusion. Government referral T/14237. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Krisztián Kecsmár, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda. I'm guessing that's your eulogy here in Parliament, isn't it? [[Krisztián Kecsmár: Yes.]] Here you go, Secretary of State. Mr. Secretary, you're going to give your sermon from here on the stand. Here you go.
u2017-03-07-82	Mr President, Dear Parliament, A few months ago Minister László Trócsányi began his speech in the exposé of the bill on the new civil order by saying that procedural law is both a minister of substantive law and a stepchild, since Parliament and the public are traditionally focused on material law institutions, although the standards of substantive law are being made alive and revived by the procedural laws behind the scenes. However, besides civil financial and procedural law, there is also a third pillar of the regulation of private law in our legal system, which essentially determines whether the other two pillars can be applied to one of them. Hungarian substantive law can only be applied if international private law conflict rules refer to Hungarian law, and Hungarian procedural rules can only be applied if the Hungarian courts and authorities have jurisdiction to deal with the case under the provisions on jurisdiction. It is a regulation of private international law in the broader sense, i.e. including international civil procedural law, whose renewal and modernisation is aimed at the proposed legislation. The first comprehensive regulation of conflict-of-law and procedural matters involving a foreign element was implemented in Hungary by Decree-Law No 13 of 1979 on private international law. This legislation represented a well-established, high-quality abstraction regulation, which also met the expectations of the age in an international comparison, in particular taking into account the political, economic, social and legal environment of the period in question. Excellent lawyers such as Ferenc Mádl participated in the professional preparation of the international code of private law. Despite the fact that codification of the regulation of private international law is a major challenge, a permanent legislation was adopted in 1979. The metaphor used in the foreword of Ferenc Mádl's comparative private international law - The right to international economic relations, published in 1978. In connection with the fact that Edmund Hillary, for the reason of conquering Mount Everest, simply indicated that he was there, because he illustrated the difficulties faced by the theory of private international law: in private international law, there are no mountains or mountains on which one simply goes up, and then, finding the Philosopher's Stone, he can proclaim new truths. What we have is the practice shaped, more or less structured, almost infinite terrain. This almost infinite terrain must therefore be explored, mapped, and indeed transformed by those who are going to codify private international law. The high level of success of our predecessors is no better proof that the first major amendment to the Code of Private International Law adopted in 1979 was made more than 20 years after its entry into force in 2000, which was already due to the need to adapt the rules on the recognition and enforcement of jurisdictional and foreign decisions to the development of EU law. However, in more than three and a half decades since the entry into force of the Code, strong political, economic and social changes have taken place. At the same time, cross-border personal and financial flows have increased dramatically and, as a result, the number of international relations has increased significantly, and in many cases they are more complex and complicated than before. Since the entry into force of the Code, Hungary's international relations have also been largely transformed. In particular, our accession to the European Union has had a strong influence on domestic private international law regulation, significantly redefining the topography of private international law, if you will allow it. The Amsterdam Treaty established a legal basis for cooperation between Member States in the field of civil and commercial matters, which opened the way for the replacement of Member States' rules on private international law with uniform EU rules. This option has been widely used by the EU legislator. There are currently 15 EU regulations in the field of civil justice cooperation that concern areas covered by the Code of Private International Law. As a result, the scope of the national legislator and the scope of the autonomous internal legal rules have been significantly reduced. In order to adapt to EU legislation and to ensure consistency with EU law, it has become increasingly necessary to amend the Code. However, the ad hoc amendments are not always calm on a uniform basis of principle and thus did not lead to a consistent and professionally sound standard. The situation is also complicated by the fact that EU private international law does not constitute a complete and coherent system, the EU regulations usually provide for exceptions from their scope or there is no EU standard for certain categories of private law. In view of this, however, it is important for the Hungarian legislator to exercise its remaining legislative powers, since a progressive law on private international law adapted to today's legal and sociological environment can also serve as a solid benchmark in relation to EU law. Since the creation of the existing code, our country has also joined a number of multilateral international conventions, which have also redrafted the image of internal law. Some of these conventions reflect a new approach other than internal law, which also justifies a rethink of internal legal rules. In addition, organic integration into a wider international regulatory environment requires adaptation to a generally accepted, renewed legal set of values. Domestic legislation, which is thus passed through international and EU law, creates complex legal problems that often pose a major challenge for everyday law enforcement. [[13.30]] The bill is therefore intended to resolve the uncertainties surrounding the application of the law and to correct the wide-ranging case-law that may distort the application of the law on specific issues. In addition, the new Ptk raises the need to revise the existing Code. and the recently adopted new Pp. The creation of a new law on private international law must ensure harmony with them both from a dogmatic, terminological and taxatological point of view. These circumstances have a decisive influence on private international regulation, making it all inevitable to reform the existing legislation in a comprehensive way. In the spirit of this recognition, the Hungarian Government ordered in May 2015 the codification of the new private international regulation and the establishment of a codification committee on private international law. This committee was composed of prominent academic and practical experts from private international law and was assisted by a working group of other recognised experts. The codification committee, which was added to the working group, in excellent cooperation with the very competent staff of the Ministry of Justice, developed the concept of the new regulation adopted by the Government in November 2016 and built on the bill that has now been presented. The codification work was basically based on two foundations. On the one hand, the excellent lawyers and practitioners involved in the process reviewed in-depth studies the basic principles of the existing legislation, the impact of EU and international law on Hungarian law, and the possible orientations of a new private international regulation. The other basis for the codification work was the collection and evaluation of practical experience with the application of the existing legislation. As a result, Ferenc Mádl has been mapped - in the words of Ferenc Mádl - by today's private international terrain, and by how this landscape should be portrayed and shaped in the law so that it is not only accessible, but also completely transparent for law-abiding people. In other words, it was necessary to define in which areas and in what directions it is necessary to modernise domestic private international legislation. Dear Parliament, Allow me to briefly present the bill reflecting the outcome of the codification work, following these introductory points. At the time of the creation of the Code in force, it had a remarkable feature that it dealt with all the issues arising from legal relations involving foreign elements, so it laid down not only rules on private international law in the strict sense, i.e. applicable law, but also international civil procedural provisions, such as jurisdictional, procedural standards, and the conditions for the recognition and enforcement of foreign decisions. As a result of the close links between the issues concerned, it is still justified to maintain this approach, so the bill sets out its scope accordingly, which therefore includes determining which State's law should apply in a case containing a relevant foreign element; when to act a Hungarian court or authority; if to act, what rules of procedure should be followed; and finally, it also covers the conditions under which foreign decisions can be recognised and enforced in Hungary. In our view, the task of enforcers is also facilitated if the rules to be followed in international matters continue to be found in a single law. The bill shall apply to private law, whether the legal relationship is the subject of proceedings by a court or other authority. Accordingly, he must apply the rules of the bill not only to the court in civil dispute, but also to the notary in the case of succession, the guardianship of the guardianship, or to the civil registration body in order to establish paternity in the birth register. At the same time, I have already pointed out that one of the most important reasons for the revision of the existing legislation is the dynamic change in the EU and international legal environment, resulting in a reduction in the regulatory and application area of national law. In this context, the bill generally states that its rules should apply only to matters which are not covered by an EU regulation or an international treaty. One of the important elements of the codification work was the identification of issues that remain regulated by Hungarian legislation. This is not a simple task, since the individual regulations do not always clearly outline their own scope of application. In addition, EU law sets different directions in the sphere of international conflict-of-law and international civil procedure law. The EU's conflict-of-law regulations have therefore been created with the need for universal application, and therefore they are fully uniform in the sphere of law, both in terms of the facts concerning the EU and third countries, fully replacing the existing domestic rules, turning them into conflict-of-law rules of Hungarian law. Consequently, domestic conflict-of-law legislation can only be granted in respect of legal relationships not covered by the temporal and substantive scope of EU law. A similar approach appears in certain procedural regulations, which also regulate jurisdiction on a universal basis, but other EU procedural standards require only the Union's relationship with the application of EU regulations, which allows or requires parallel national procedural legislation, so that other jurisdictional rules can be applied in relation within or outside the Union. The same is true of the recognition and enforcement of decisions, as EU rules apply only to EU Member States. So there will continue to be a two-plane regulatory system on these issues. It is up to the legislator to develop national legislation in such a way that it forms a harmonious and transparent union with EU law, while avoiding unjustified duplication and fragmentation of regulation, thus ensuring that the topography of private international law is free from deep chasms and unclimbable mountain peaks. With regard to the legislation on applicable law, the bill moves away from the orientations of the existing code in a number of areas. In line with international trends, the bill gives greater scope to the autonomy of the parties by allowing a wider choice of law. With the exception of areas where it is not legally justified to give the parties the possibility to designate the applicable law, such as the area of family status or adoption, the bill provides for at least limited choice of law. The bill also establishes, by drawing inspiration from foreign or EU models, a general disbursement clause on the basis of which the determining court or other authority may exceptionally refrain from applying the law otherwise designated by the bill, provided that the case is clearly more closely linked to the law of another State, where the latter law is applicable. This solution will allow individualised, more flexible handling of cases, promoting a fairer and fairer decision. The Hungarian private international law regime should not necessarily be required to lay down specific conflict-of-law rules for all private law institutions in foreign rights. However, it may be necessary, where appropriate, to establish the right under which the legal relationship to which it comes, which is not known in Hungarian law, can be assessed. Therefore, the bill also contains a general ancillary rule: the purpose of this general clause is to lead the application of the law to the law applicable in that case, in the absence of specific, individual provisions of the law. The bill opens the provision on the protection of Hungarian public order compared to the existing code, giving essentially the definition of public order by stating that the foreign law designated by the bill should be waived if the result of its application clearly and seriously violates the fundamental values and constitutional principles of the Hungarian legal system. In addition, the bill provides for the protection of the so-called imperialist rules and standards that require unconditional application, as well as for the EU sample. These standards are intended to protect the political, economic and social interests of the State and, by reason of their unconditional nature, must also be implemented in private law matters having an international dimension, even if the case is to be assessed on the basis of a foreign law, according to the bill. [[13.40]] With rules on the protection of public order and imperialist standards, the bill aims to give the Hungarian law enforcement authority a tool to protect the values and interests protected by Hungarian law, the constitutional identity and identity. More legal certainty is also served by the provision of the bill on the change of statute, which, compared to similar rules laid down in some of the previous sub-areas only, generally states that the circumstances underlying the applicable law, and consequently the change of the applicable law, do not affect the legal relationships previously established. The bill also aims to make substantial changes to the conflict-of-law rules on the status of natural persons. In assessing the experience of the application of the current legislation, the main practical problem has been that the family status, family status or name of Hungarian citizens who are nationals of other States or who live abroad may differ in Hungary and in the State of residence or residence. The reason for this may be the application of the law of different states, or the fact that a decision taken abroad does not fulfil the conditions of recognition laid down by Hungarian law, but these can always be traced back to the fact that the legislation in force does not allow the consideration of another nationality or foreign residence. I do not think it is necessary to demonstrate the disadvantages and difficulties for the persons concerned to have a different identity in two different states, apart from their own faults, as innocent victims of the conflict of legal systems. In view of this, the intention to avoid such unfair situations has a bearing on the whole of the bill. This is also reflected in a novel definition of personal law as central to the definition of the law applicable to the legal relationship of natural persons. For as long as the existing code for Hungarian citizens who also have other citizenships considered Hungarian citizenship only as the basis for personal rights, the bill allows for the consideration of another nationality if the person concerned is linked to it. Thus, in all cases where a legal relationship is to be judged under personal law, it will be possible to apply the law of the other State of nationality in Hungary as well. Thus, the same legal relationship of the person concerned will be settled in the same way in both States. The same correction can also be made for the above-mentioned general deflecting clause. It is also intended to facilitate the situation of Hungarian citizens that, according to the bill, the name of birth and marriage registered abroad must be recognised in Hungary, provided that the Hungarian citizen or his spouse is a national of the other State, or that the Hungarian citizen has a habitual residence in that State; however, the recognition of such a name should not be subject to the violation of Hungarian public order. The provisions of the bill on the violation of the rights of the person are more favourable to the injured party than to the code in force, since the law of the State of the victim's habitual residence is imposed instead of the law of the State of the offence, or even a unilateral, although limited, choice of law is granted to the victim. I would also like to highlight the area of family law, as the most important changes in family law are foreseen in the legislation on relations with children. It therefore makes the possibility of applying Hungarian law which is more favourable to the child more general than the existing code, as it also allows the application of the law of another State, which is closely linked to the case, in order to fulfil the status of father. In accordance with international regulatory practice, it applies the law of the State of habitual residence of the child to legal relationships between the parent and the child, which, in most cases, results in the application of the law of the forum in conjunction with the rules of jurisdiction, thereby contributing to the faster conduct of procedures affecting the child. The bill therefore intends to contribute with its own means to better protect the interests of children. Another innovation is that it allows spouses and spouses to choose their rights in terms of their financial conditions. The provisions in the area of rem are complementary to the existing legislation and therefore better suited to the regulatory needs of today. The protection of cultural goods should also be highlighted at the level of conflict-of-law rules. The conflict-of-law rules of the law are largely regulated by EU regulations, so the bill has sought to adapt the rules of internal law to EU regulations in a narrow regulatory area that remains for national legislation, which will require the enforcement of the law to apply similar standards when any source of law is applied. However, more detailed rules will be laid down for securities than the current rules, which is absolutely justified in view of their role. Further innovation is the settlement of the law applicable to the arbitration agreement. An important innovation of the bill for businesses is that it also lays down rules on private international insolvency proceedings. The bill also seeks to improve the legal conditions for international cooperation, and in this context, it also changes the regulation of certain procedural aspects, in a more detailed and circumstantial form than is currently the case. Accordingly, the provisions on international litigation will be extended, specifying more clearly the conditions for taking account of foreign proceedings and, in this context, the duties of the law enforcement authorities. On the basis of a sample of EU regulations governing jurisdiction, the bill allows the Hungarian courts, authorities to take interim measures even in the absence of jurisdiction, if this is necessary for the protection of a person or property in Hungary requiring immediate action. The rules of the bill on international legal assistance, which are more exhaustive than those in force, can provide a good basis for the courts and other authorities to cooperate with foreign courts and authorities. The procedural provisions include specific rules on immunity based on international law with more detailed content than before, with which the bill intended to respond to the difficulties encountered in practice. The bill also transforms the rules of jurisdiction. The system of jurisdictional grounds for property matters varies only slightly, but instead of establishing jurisdictional standards separately for a group of cases involving a person in general in the system of the Code in force. The thematic approach is also reflected in the legislation on recognition and enforcement of foreign decisions, which allows greater consideration to be given to the specificities associated with the recognition of decisions concerning different types of legal relationships. I have referred to the consequences of the current legislation that Hungarian citizens may have different family status, personal status, names in Hungary and other states, one of the reasons for which is that decisions made abroad concerning Hungarian citizens cannot in many cases be recognised because of the exclusive jurisdiction established by internal law. Such situations will be substantially prevented by the modification of the rules of jurisdiction by eliminating exclusive jurisdiction based on nationality, but as citizenship remains partly as a basis for jurisdiction, the bill contains several provisions in the area of recognition of decisions with a view to facilitating recognition. Accordingly, it will be possible to take into account the other nationality of the Hungarian citizen, but also to mention the provision that, if the conditions laid down in the bill are met, the foreign decision can be recognised and enforced in Hungary even if this would not be possible under the relevant international agreement. As regards the recognition and enforcement of foreign decisions in Hungary, it is also a step forward that the existence of reciprocity is no longer a general condition, but only a requirement for decisions in property matters. [[13.50]] Overall, the approach taken by the bill will make it easier to enforce foreign decisions in Hungary. Dear Parliament, The bill, the result of a comprehensive and high-quality codification work, puts domestic regulation of private international law on a new, modern basis. Its adoption can ensure that the Hungarian legislation on the settlement of cross-border private-law relations responds to all the challenges faced by our time against legislation and application of law, and also fits properly in the context of EU and international law. By using the metaphor of Ferenc Mádl, I could say that with the bill we have managed to redefine the map of the Hungarian private international law so that it can walk in and out of the wind without difficulty, and it fits into the topography of the world around us. I therefore ask you to support the bill after discussing it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-03-07-83	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Répássy Róbert. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-03-07-84	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, According to Article R of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, the Fundamental Law is the basis of Hungary's legal system. This is why it is worth looking at it before discussing in detail how Hungary's Fundamental Law provides for international law and, in this context, the law of the European Union. I add that the Fundamental Law does not distinguish between private international law and international public law as regards international law, but in the light of the text, we can say that the Fundamental Law provides for the relationship between private international law and international public law and European Union law as well as Hungarian law and domestic law. Article Q of the Fundamental Law states that international law ensures the consistency of international law and Hungarian law in order to fulfil Hungary's obligations under international law. Hungary accepts the generally recognised rules of international law, and other sources of international law become part of the Hungarian legal system through their statutory publication. How does our Fundamental Law provide for the law of the European Union in relation to this, namely Article E thereof? In order to participate in the European Union as a Member State, Hungary may exercise, on the basis of an international contract, some of its powers under the Fundamental Law, together with the other Member States, through the institutions of the European Union, to the extent necessary for the exercise of the rights and obligations arising from the founding contracts. The law of the European Union, within the framework of the former paragraph, may lay down a general mandatory code of conduct, says the Fundamental Law. Therefore, the Fundamental Law makes a clear distinction between the internal effects of European Union law and the effects of international treaties. The law of the European Union is directly applicable by Hungarian law enforcement. This will be important later when we describe in detail how the code before us is related to the law of the European Union. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I would like to say that the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance Group supports the bill, which aims to create a new code of private international law. The 1979 Decree-Law No 13 on private international law has been the basis for the domestic assessment of conflict-of-law and procedural matters relating to private law with a foreign element for more than three and a half decades. However, due to the continuation of the freed-up external economic activity, technical progress has given a huge boost to the development of international economic relations, which is reflected in the multiplicated relevant rule material. Travelling abroad has become an integral part of our way of life, new ties are formed for those who work, and children are born from relationships with foreign people. Businesses also have a number of opportunities to trade with foreign partners, where disputes may arise. Thus, not only the number of increased international relations justifies the revision of the Code, but also the recently established civil code and civil order, which was recently adopted by the Parliament. On this basis, it can be concluded today that modern cross-border living conditions require a more flexible and prudent regulation. Thus, private international law becomes inevitable when an international element is involved in a given legal relationship, i.e. the following issues arise. Which State authorities are entitled to take action in this case? If the Hungarian court or other authority can act, can the case be assessed under Hungarian law or should the law of another State concerned apply? In addition, it may arise whether decisions taken abroad must be valid or enforceable in Hungary and, if so, under what conditions. In view of the main objectives of the bill, I would like to highlight the following. In relation to the personal status and family relationships of Hungarian nationals living abroad or having dual citizenship, it detects situations arising from conflicts in different legal systems where the persons concerned have different family status, family status, or possibly a name in different states. Several provisions of the proposal contribute to the enforcement of children's main interests. In addition, the proposal includes innovations affecting businesses that help to create a more predictable and competitive legal environment, such as insolvency proceedings rules. Let me draw your attention to some innovations. In order to ensure uniform rules for aspects of private international law which are not covered by EU or international agreements, the proposal generally states that the rules of the law should apply only to legal relationships which are not covered by the European Union's legal act of general application or by an international agreement of general application. I would like to refer here to how the Fundamental Law provided for the relationship between EU law and international law and internal law. Given the general scope of the Code, its relationship with other related international legislation becomes clear. I would also like to highlight the issue of the law applicable to naming. Compared to the Code in force, the proposal regulates the law applicable to naming more widely and in a more flexible way. It contains provisions not only on the name of birth but also on the marriage name, including the name in case of divorce. With regard to naming, the proposal also provides an opportunity to choose law according to the international trend, so that those concerned can be named on the basis of the law they prefer. For example, the application of the Hungarian rules of naming as regards the child of a foreign family living in Hungary can facilitate their integration here. In view of the legal certainty aspects, it is appropriate to recognise in a limited manner the names of Hungarian citizens who are validly registered under the law of another State. Furthermore, a new rule on the violation of personal rights, which includes provisions that are more favourable to the injured party, should be mentioned. In addition to the principle favourable to the victim, the proposal allows the victim a limited number of unilateral choice of law, so that the data subject can choose, for example, the law of the State in which his or her sphere of interest is centred rather than the law of his or her habitual residence. Let me take a similar example. In the case of an internationally known person, it is possible that the normal place of residence and the centre of interest are separated, so a Hungarian athlete living in Hungary, who is also known and competed abroad, can decide during the procedure that foreign law applies to the infringement. [[14.00]] The Fundamental Law is the basis of Hungary's legal system. This is why it is worth looking at it before discussing in detail how Hungary's Fundamental Law provides for international law and, in this context, the law of the European Union. I add that the Fundamental Law does not distinguish between private international law and international public law as regards international law, but in the light of the text, we can say that the Fundamental Law provides for the relationship between private international law and international public law and European Union law as well as Hungarian law and domestic law. Article Q of the Fundamental Law states that international law ensures the consistency of international law and Hungarian law in order to fulfil Hungary's obligations under international law. Hungary accepts the generally recognised rules of international law, and other sources of international law become part of the Hungarian legal system through their statutory publication. How does our Fundamental Law provide for the law of the European Union in relation to this, namely Article E thereof? In order to participate in the European Union as a Member State, Hungary may exercise, on the basis of an international contract, some of its powers under the Fundamental Law, together with the other Member States, through the institutions of the European Union, to the extent necessary for the exercise of the rights and obligations arising from the founding contracts. The law of the European Union, within the framework of the former paragraph, may lay down a general mandatory code of conduct, says the Fundamental Law. Therefore, the Fundamental Law makes a clear distinction between the internal effects of European Union law and the effects of international treaties. The law of the European Union is directly applicable by Hungarian law enforcement. This will be important later when we describe in detail how the code before us is related to the law of the European Union. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I would like to say that the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance Group supports the bill, which aims to create a new code of private international law. The 1979 Decree-Law No 13 on private international law has been the basis for the domestic assessment of conflict-of-law and procedural matters relating to private law with a foreign element for more than three and a half decades. However, due to the continuation of the freed-up external economic activity, technical progress has given a huge boost to the development of international economic relations, which is reflected in the multiplicated relevant rule material. Travelling abroad has become an integral part of our way of life, new ties are formed for those who work, and children are born from relationships with foreign people. Businesses also have a number of opportunities to trade with foreign partners, where disputes may arise. Thus, not only the number of increased international relations justifies the revision of the Code, but also the recently established civil code and civil order, which was recently adopted by the Parliament. On this basis, it can be concluded today that modern cross-border living conditions require a more flexible and prudent regulation. Thus, private international law becomes inevitable when an international element is involved in a given legal relationship, i.e. the following issues arise. Which State authorities are entitled to take action in this case? If the Hungarian court or other authority can act, can the case be assessed under Hungarian law or should the law of another State concerned apply? In addition, it may arise whether decisions taken abroad must be valid or enforceable in Hungary and, if so, under what conditions. In view of the main objectives of the bill, I would like to highlight the following. In relation to the personal status and family relationships of Hungarian nationals living abroad or having dual citizenship, it detects situations arising from conflicts in different legal systems where the persons concerned have different family status, family status, or possibly a name in different states. Several provisions of the proposal contribute to the enforcement of children's main interests. In addition, the proposal includes innovations affecting businesses that help to create a more predictable and competitive legal environment, such as insolvency proceedings rules. Let me draw your attention to some innovations. In order to ensure uniform rules for aspects of private international law which are not covered by EU or international agreements, the proposal generally states that the rules of the law should apply only to legal relationships which are not covered by the European Union's legal act of general application or by an international agreement of general application. I would like to refer here to how the Fundamental Law provided for the relationship between EU law and international law and internal law. Given the general scope of the Code, its relationship with other related international legislation becomes clear. I would also like to highlight the issue of the law applicable to naming. Compared to the Code in force, the proposal regulates the law applicable to naming more widely and in a more flexible way. It contains provisions not only on the name of birth but also on the marriage name, including the name in case of divorce. With regard to naming, the proposal also provides an opportunity to choose law according to the international trend, so that those concerned can be named on the basis of the law they prefer. For example, the application of the Hungarian rules of naming as regards the child of a foreign family living in Hungary can facilitate their integration here. In view of the legal certainty aspects, it is appropriate to recognise in a limited manner the names of Hungarian citizens who are validly registered under the law of another State. Furthermore, a new rule on the violation of personal rights, which includes provisions that are more favourable to the injured party, should be mentioned. In addition to the principle favourable to the victim, the proposal allows the victim a limited number of unilateral choice of law, so that the data subject can choose, for example, the law of the State in which his or her sphere of interest is centred rather than the law of his or her habitual residence. Let me take a similar example. In the case of an internationally known person, it is possible that the normal place of residence and the centre of interest are separated, so a Hungarian athlete living in Hungary, who is also known and competed abroad, can decide during the procedure that foreign law applies to the infringement.(14.00) I note that the proposal leaves wide scope for the willful autonomy of the parties, thus allowing the parties to choose law more widely than before, with the condition that it should not lead to harm to the rights of third parties. Another example is that if the parties refer in the contract to the civil code of a State, such as the Italian Code of Civil Rights, it can be assessed, taking into account the other circumstances of the case, that there is an implicit agreement between them as regards the application of Italian law. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, domestic legislation, both international and EU law, raises complex legal problems that often pose a major challenge for everyday application. The proposal is also intended to resolve the uncertainties surrounding the application of the law and to correct the case-law that may be harmful to certain issues. In the light of what I have said, I would ask you to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-07-85	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gergely Bárándy. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-03-07-86	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a pleasure to see that, after a relatively long time, the Ministry of Justice comes up with a fundamentally acceptable proposal here in Parliament. This has not been the case for the past period, and I hope that it will be more so for the next period. What I would like to note above is that, without taking into account the detailed presentation of the proposal, because as an opposition Member, I think that is not primarily my concern, but that I should highlight the problems that have arisen with this proposal. We have listened to it many times, and Minister Trócsányi - to say - is also a central element of his argument, which Mr Secretary of State now knows is the result of what professional work this bill has come before the House, and therefore the Members have almost nothing else to do but to accept this proposal, given the highly qualified professional spirit that prepared it. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I must say that, in the case of a new code, this should not be mentioned at all, because it is natural here to consider that it is a highly qualified professional group that prepares this proposal, and this should not, in itself, constitute any argument in Parliament's debate for which it is proposed to accept it. It's a natural process for preparing a code. That's what this is all about. However, what is behind this sentence, let me say, is not first in the argument of the Ministry of Justice, I do not think it is right. It is because this suggests that Members of Parliament have neither competence nor any other option, unless they want to face a high-ranking professional Gremium than to support this proposal. This proposal had no prior political agreement. And I believe that, as is natural, that, in the case of a code, a highly qualified committee for professional codification, together with the permanent apparatus of the Ministry of Justice, it is also natural that this has political coordination, and this is indeed the responsibility of the person who, to say the least, takes the matter as a politician, i.e. the minister's or the secretary of state. We had the same objection in the case of civil procedure, where a less successful proposal was put forward. What may be even more difficult is that we do not even see whether this has had a professional consultation, a professional consultation outside the Ministry and the codification committee. We have no idea, for example, what the courts think of the proposal; this was not available to Members in any form, otherwise available, such as this information. I hope that in this, Mr Secretary of State will be able to confirm that this has also gone through a broad consultation with the profession and has a positive opinion. I am just saying this because we do not want to be in the same position again as in the case of the new Civil Procedure Act, where a nearly 20-page amendment was tabled by the Deputy President of the National Court of Justice at the Legislative Committee meeting, and Members were standing there to see how it is now. How is it that the Ministry and the court there even said that it was supposed to be agreed, and yet they brought a proposal with such extensive substantive changes to the committee? So it would be nice to know whether, let's say, the Hungarian Bar Association, the courts, where appropriate, the prosecutor's office, had this proposal at all, and if so, what amendments were called for. I will talk about this a little later, for example, in the application of the concept of collusion with public order, where I would be particularly interested in the position of the court on the new direction that this proposal contains. The other thing I would also like to mention in the magistrate's office is that I am bringing this up in the Pp., and I think that it will be necessary, by the way, to review many of the laws before this legislation enters into force, and my fellow Member Répássy has also mentioned this, the rules on family lawsuits. In the debate of the Civil Procedure Act, this was precisely one of the cornerstones that we challenged, and for which we could not accept the law, namely that the law represents an unbelievable residual position in the proceedings relating to children, compared to the fact that it is a XXI. 100th century code, and the rules on this are very bad. They do not take into account the interests of children, the best interests of children, and also the position of the profession in this regard, as regards the profession of family law, as this was the element that was most challenged in Hungarian family legislation. I also point out, in addition to what I have said so far, that the bill states that it has special regard and respect for international treaties, and here it highlights, for example, the Convention of 19 October 1996 in the Hague on cooperation on parental responsibility and child protection measures, as well as the jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement governing such matters. That's right. I hope that this is true, that this is really taken to a large extent into account in the proposal. However, I would suggest that if there is a need - and I will point out here in two places where it is necessary - to amend other legislation, it would be good for the Ministry of Justice to override this, and, for example, in these cases, it would also put the duration of such lawsuits within limits, for example, with this Hague Convention in mind. It can be done, quite calmly. And then I can tell you that it's not just the private law law, it's the Pp behind it. could at least change in this respect in a reassuring way. What I highlight - and I highlight as a positive - is that I also believe that the international environment has changed so much that the entry into force of a new code of private law is justified, of course I am thinking of the Code of Private International Law. We could basically support this, so that this would be renewed, that this would take a new form, that it would now appear not in the form of a legislative regulation, but in the form of a law. Obviously, this is more than just the word of time in itself, and I would also be happy that if TVs no longer existed in the Hungarian legal system, the last time the decision of the Parliament made such a change in relation to the execution of sentences. However, I would like to say that the proposal should be reviewed once again in terms of legal coherence and that the necessary legislative amendments should be made, which we do not yet see. In both technical and technical terms, legislative amendments will be necessary until the new private law rules enter into force. If this entire judicial review work is postponed by the wallet, it may be necessary to amend the law on private law before the entry into force. [[14.10]] I would like to compare this to the fact that tomorrow we will be discussing the new Criminal Procedure Law, for example, I would add, Mr Secretary of State, there have been serious discussions, and the opposition will probably be more inclined to add to a law thus tabled than to a law tabled without it, but there we will also expect the wallet to present a package of legislation which is closely linked to it. The Secretary of State has informally confirmed that this is a plan for the wallet, it is very good, very good, but perhaps it would be worth doing it here, too, before the final vote is held, or at least until the entry into force of this. For example, the TV on private international law. 38. § 10 and 41/A. Paragraph 3 of Section 3 of the Act I of 2010 on the registration procedure refers in particular. The birth certificate, for the record, should be reviewed anyway, it is a pity that this has been missed by the makers of the proposal. This is all the more interesting, because, moreover, certain amendments have been included in the scope of legislative proposals, such as minor technical improvements, such as, in the case of the Labour Control Act, where reference is made to the Decree-Law on private international law, the law establishing the 2011 budget has also been improved. So it's worth looking at the surrounding rules, because that could be a problem. The other question, which I also referred to, is how the changes shape the practice of applying the law, and here it would be particularly interesting to know whether, by the way, the enforcer has a position as to whether he has received this proposal. These also highlight the change in the content of the public order clause. The Hungarian private television in force today. 7. §2 of the Act states the general clause that the application of foreign law should not be applied in the event of a conflict of Hungarian public policy. According to established judicial practice, an attack on public order has so far assumed to be some specific provision which is in breach of the public interest and which should therefore be ignored. Individual judicial decisions have been based on criminal or non-compliance laws to determine the content of public order, stressing that public order and legal order are not the same concepts. The proposal expands the public order case of non-compliance when it comes to Article 11. It states in Section 3 "Hungarian law is contrary to public order and therefore the application of the foreign law governing the affairs of this law should not be applied if its result in the case in question is manifestly and seriously contrary to the fundamental interests and constitutional principles of the Hungarian legal system. I do not object to the change, but I would like to know what the position of the law enforcement officer is on this point, since, in the end, this, I think, will mean a fundamental change in the case law. So, I must say, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State, that, of course, this proposal is, of course, suitable for the debate in Parliament, but a number of amendments are necessary in order to be able to provide a reassuring support and to give good heart to the bill before us. Once again, I resent the fact that the circumstances of the submission are not what I would consider to be ideal and necessary at least. I think that if we want to maintain the authority of Parliament, it can be preserved not only by bringing in banners here, or not by an interpellation, but by the fact that if the Hungarian government, the executive power, takes Parliament seriously, it considers Parliament as a partner, considers Parliament and the factions as partners, and assumes so much professional competence that they can give a meaningful input to these issues, in Hungarian: agree before submitting, especially in the case of such a serious proposal, even if this is a reasonable proposal by a half majority, even because the Pp. I also said in his debate that the aim of a code is to be timeless, the aim of which is, if possible, to be accepted by the Parliament by compromise. And even if there is a half law, in the case of a new code, it is not irrelevant whether we can only pass it through the Parliament with pro-government support, or if there is a kind of compromise between opposition and a party of government on this matter, just as, of course, the professional consensus is of great importance, even because in such cases - unlike many proposals previously adopted - the opposition will not have the political objective of changing them, but can accept that they will remain in force if necessary, as its earlier codes have been for many decades, or, as say, parts of the Csemegi Code will be for more than a century. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-03-07-87	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-03-07-88	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The 1979 Decree-Law No 13 on private international law has been the basis for the domestic assessment of conflict-of-law and procedural matters relating to private law for decades, which has met the expectations of private international law in recent decades. Today, however, there have been strong changes in economic life as well as in social and political life. With our accession to the European Union and then Schengen, cross-border passenger and property flows have increased enormously in Hungary by the free movement of labour and capital, and therefore the number of international relations has increased in particular, the nature of which has become significantly more diverse than before. The situation is complicated by the fact that, at the same time as the above events, the European Union has harmonised the internal legal order of the Member States in the areas referred to in Article 65 of the Treaty establishing the European Community on the basis of an amendment made by the Amsterdam Treaty, thereby significantly reducing the scope of national legislators' movement. In view of this, it is important for the Hungarian Parliament to exercise its remaining legislative powers. In the meantime, we have also joined a number of multilateral international conventions, the integration and construction of which in the Hungarian legal order also redefines the image of our internal law. Domestic legislation, which has been passed through international and EU law, has created complex legal problems that have often been a major challenge for everyday legislation. T/14237 on private international law The purpose of the legislative proposal is to resolve the uncertainties surrounding legislation. In addition to the above, the need for a revision of the Code of Private International Law is raised by the new Civil Code, which has recently entered into force, and, although it has not yet entered into force, but also by the new Civil Procedure Act adopted by this House. Ladies and Gentlemen, On the basis of the above, the purpose of the new Code of Private International Law is to include in uniform, state-of-the-art and clear legislation the conditions of private international law not covered by EU or international agreements. The bill therefore states on a general basis that the rules of the law should apply only to legal relationships which are not covered by the European Union's legal act of general application or by an international agreement of general application. [[14.20]] It is therefore up to us to develop the rules of private international law in such a way as to create a harmonious and transparent unity with EU law. The bill therefore sets out, in line with the so-called related principles, the law of which State of the law of several potential States should apply in legal relationships of a private international nature, and also provides for which jurisdictional grounds and by which procedural rules the Hungarian courts or authorities should act, and lays down the conditions for the recognition and enforcement of decisions taken abroad in Hungary. The proposal devotes a specific provision to public order, stating that the foreign law designated by the law must be waived if its result is clearly and seriously detrimental to the fundamental interests of the Hungarian legal system and to the constitutional principles of Hungary. On the basis of the so-called general derogation clause contained in the proposal, the determining court or authority may exceptionally refrain from applying the law designated by law, provided that the circumstances of that case clearly show a closer link with another right. This solution makes it possible to unify and deal with cases more flexibly, promoting a fairer and fairer decision. [[In the notary seat István Ikotity is replaced by István Szávay.]] The concept of so-called personal right plays a central role in determining the law applicable to the legal relationship of natural persons. The concept of the proposal retains the present progressive system in this respect, so the definition of personal law remains primarily based on nationality, and if a person has more than one nationality, and one of them is Hungarian, his personal right will be Hungarian. All of this will be of greater importance for persons living outside the border who have regained Hungarian citizenship. There is also a change in the rules on guardianship with limitation of capacity, taking into account the planned accession of our country to the Convention on the International Protection of Adults in the Hague of 13 January 2000. The proposal does not take over certain provisions of the Code, which are now considered to be exceeded. Ladies and Gentlemen, Please support the new Code of Private International Law T/14237. Bill No. 1. The KDNP parliamentary faction supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-07-89	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Gábor Staudt. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-03-07-90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I listened to the speakers in front of me. Obviously, anyone who follows the debate from outside and is not a lawyer may think that it is an extremely dry debate that is going on here, even though we think of all living conditions, whether they are beyond the EU, or partly of the EU, because, in vain, the EU regulations, Rome I, Rome II. It basically regulates conflict-of-law relations between countries within the EU, but if you look at the Carpathian Basin only, it goes beyond that, in many cases not all the neighbouring Member States, especially where Hungarians live, are members of the Union; otherwise, I will address this. So the debate could be more exciting than it looks. That is why I would like to say that we are faced with an otherwise well-written proposal, but I also miss the lack of negotiations. Mr. Secretary of State, I believe we may have heard your sermon on the pulpit. I have to tell you, too, that in those cases, and in this case I would be able to join Gergely Bárándy when it comes to a half law, even if there is a code coming into Parliament, although in the future I do not know which other codes have not gone through our hands, but if there is one or more serious amendment, it would not hurt to call a five-party agreement, because then opinions can be expressed or incorporated, which, I must say, is less so. I also have to say that in many cases, and it would have been just such a proposal, there would have been room for the professional debate in a preliminary discussion, because it may not be possible to say that too many policies can be smuggled into it; and there may be, but the new code of private international law would have deserved to run one or two rounds of negotiations. By the way, as I said, you can see that you've worked on these for a few years. Writing the explanatory statement is mostly almost textbook. Of course, there are some points that I will address, where the justifications and the rules laid down are still not quite clear to me that they are in line with the objectives set. I will return to these points, but other than that, you can see that we are talking about a thoughtful substance. And I am also fully aware that when we talk about these rules, then, as I have said, we are talking about legal categories beyond the EU regulations, i.e. beyond the EU countries, very often applying very exotic legislation, or I have to say that there are thousands of millions of life situations, because in the world there are not only as many rights as there are in the world, but also in the larger federal countries they have different rights, whether they have state or local rights, or even with regard to the circle of persons, and then these problems need to be dealt with in advance in some legislative or legislative sections. So it's not an easy task. Which obviously points to the need for these passages to be flexible, because if they are not sufficiently flexible, there will obviously be life situations that are difficult to apply to. I would like to highlight a point or two in addition to the fact that, as I said in the introduction, I consider that this proposal was almost forty years old, it will not be worth its forty years, because it was put into effect in 79, and if it is adopted it will come into force next year, so it will not be worth its 40-year anniversary, and perhaps it will be better this way. Since then, economic and political relations have obviously changed a lot, even though many amendments have been made in this proposal. But I would also like to make a point or two. I was pleased to note, speaking of flexible rules, that the proposal states that the actual application of foreign law does not necessarily require reciprocity. As far as I know, it was a complicated process to find out where we stand with reciprocity, and it also took away the work of the courts. As I understand it, the Ministry of Justice had to be involved if there were any cases, and I have to say that this in itself is a positive change, so it was out of the law. It is also logical that the State does not apply any conflict-of-law rules. This, too, is likely to remain with us from the pro-state system, and if the state is subject to financial relations, then it is subject to the same rules in these cases. This, of course, adapts to today's circumstances. Then the content of foreign law becomes more flexible for the courts. This is good because you can accept the applicable foreign law in different circles after sufficient evidence. This, as I have said, in the case of various exotic countries, can bring serious difficulties to the court, since the legislation of a distant country, its legislation, is not so easy to clarify. It also seems reasonable that, if this cannot be established within a reasonable period of time, Hungarian law should be applied or, if this cannot be done, the law similar to that of another country such as the law of the exotic country to be used should be applied. They are absolutely flexible, meet the requirements of the modern age, and give the court sufficient leeway. [[14.30]] What is not satisfactory to me, however, is that, with a stroke of a pen, the family connection has been pulled out of this proposal. I will probably also present an amendment to this. I was not convinced that by applying other public order clauses and different legal principles, family ties could always be excluded. Perhaps we have even read in the explanatory memorandum that everyone in the EU and in the modern world has a freedom to apply which law they wish to apply. This is also true, although I would add, they can use the choice of law in most cases, whether they choose state law or we can completely distance ourselves from arbitration clauses. You can also choose model rights and different commercial practices there. I obviously do not want to deal with arbitration clauses here because this legislation, the Code, limits the choice of law to state rights, and the EU regulation Rome I does not deal with arbitration clauses. To the extent that it states, as a separate category, that separate international treaties are applicable to arbitration proceedings. So, indeed, it is an independent legal system. But in this case, it is also possible to choose any state law. Obviously, there are provisions that cannot be deviated from. But family ties may still arise, there may be life conditions where no choice of law has been made, but they are still trying to shape relationships in such a way that it is beneficial to one or the other or both. I do not consider the old legislation from the devil, which stated that foreign law could not then be applied, which would otherwise be established on the basis of conflict-of-law rules if it was included in the contract as an artificial or fake foreign element, or rather in the whole legal relationship, for the purpose of circumventing the otherwise applicable legislation. So not only should contracts be considered, but even in a case of family law, they live with a family connection. There is obviously a possibility for the court to decide that this is indeed the case, indeed, the aim is to circumvent the legislation and even to put one party in a more favourable position, or the other half is true that the legislation referred to in the Hungarian conflict-of-law rules is justified. In that case, I'd leave the court the opportunity to make a decision, so that if you see any clear deception in a case of law, you can use it. The other point, which is not quite clear to me, although, if I have listened very carefully, was also mentioned by the Secretary of State, and Imre Vejkey said that it is also included in the explanatory statement, but I was not reassured by any of the three sources that a change is taking place in the case of Hungarian citizens of multiple nationality. So far, if a person has Hungarian citizenship, then his personal right is Hungarian law. This is the current legislation. On the basis of the new regulations, the first half of the sentence would also say that if it has multiple citizenship and one of them is Hungarian, then, in principle, its personal right is Hungarian law. But this is an exception, as the law says if the person is linked to another nationality. Now, that doesn't come up as an opportunity for me. I mean, you said it was an opportunity. But if you look at the bill, it's 15. This clearly states that if you have a closer relationship to another nationality, it will be your personal right. Where's that gonna be a problem? For example, if we go outside the EU, a Transcarpathian or even a Serbian dual citizen, a Hungarian citizen, and live outside, say, in Transcarpathia, then very easily the court will say that his personal right is Ukrainian law, because he lives there, lives there, has his address there, has no address in Hungary, so his personal right is Ukrainian law. This will be found unsatisfyingly, since it is clearly stated by the law. There's nothing the court can do. If that is the case, then I think that there are legal cases in which it may be detrimental to him before a Hungarian court. His relatives may already live in Hungary, not even few people have Hungarian addresses, the whole family may already live here, let us say, only the ascendant or the elderly parent left out in Transcarpathia, and he already has Hungarian citizenship, then in any legal relationship that arises, the case will be brought to a Hungarian court, everyone is Hungarian in the case, the aspect of the case is also Hungarian, but because that one person in the family still has his address in Transcarpathia, let's say, Beregszász, so under this law, I understand that the Hungarian court will have a mandatory view that his personal right will be Ukrainian law. This will not always be positive for him. I believe that I will present an amendment to this in order to examine the circumstances of the case here as well. In the case of a person of multiple nationality, but none of his nationality is Hungarian, the following paragraph states that the court will determine where the relationship is closer in view of the material circumstances of the case. I think that would also be justified in the case of Hungarian citizenship. So if the Hungarian court considers that a Hungarian citizen, but let's say, in the case of a citizen living outside the border, is more connected to Hungary, the Hungarian law, the circumstances of the case before it can be the right of Hungarian law, if it is already a Hungarian double citizen. So I think we need a correction here. Of course, I can be convinced that I'm misinterpreting this, but this way, by reading through this proposal, was definitely an issue. Of course, that's why it would have been good or optimal to negotiate at the level of State Secretary. I am not saying that at ministerial level, of course, it would also be justified to clarify these. By the way, as I said, the proposal is indeed very elaborate, and it seems that they have worked with it. But, by the way, I can again join Gergely Bárándy that I would have been very interested in how the various professions and courts came to the subject. We would have been going over these opinions, and we might have been convinced that, but good, there were suggestions, the proposal did not start from here, the court, the Bar Association or even the other professional rules could and should have been incorporated. I'm sorry to see that. However, the proposal may be supported by listening to the answers. I'll certainly wait for the Secretary of State's answers. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-07-91	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. There is now room for further speeches by Members. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Krisztián Kecsmár State Secretary if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Your timeframe is 30 minutes, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
u2017-03-07-92	Thank you very much for the supportive words. Looks like we're dealing with some kind of support here. I'm sure there are some critical overtones, and I'll try to answer them. Perhaps the most important thing is that several people have asked whether there has been a professional consultation. It happened; there was a social and administrative consultation with the OBH, the Manor, the Bar Association. These questions have indeed been clarified with the professions concerned. I'd just like to highlight a sentence or two I've heard here. Obviously, as has been said several times, this is my first such hearing, so I may be reacting in a slightly different way than they are used to. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: It's okay, it's okay.]] Okay, fine, then that'll be fine. [[14.40]] I have heard such things as a high level of professional, successful proposal, well-written proposal. Basically, I feel that if it comes from the mouth of the opposition, it is very positive in any way, and we are really very happy with these praises. We have also heard that this is a professional and not a political proposal. It may also follow that we did not necessarily insist on political negotiation when the law did not require it. It must also be seen that this, as you basically see, is an effective professional issue. And then maybe I'd like to ask you three questions about public order. The aim of the new regulation is precisely to create legal certainty for the law-abiding person. The legislator has been consulted on this subject and its comments have been taken into account. So that is how this regulatory issue emerged in the bill. Then - and maybe I wouldn't miss anything else - the question of family relations came up. Here it is necessary to see that this can be changed later on in relation to the institution of the choice of law, and that the role of the deflecting clause comes precisely here. We feel that these provisions will be able to address the concerns. The second question, which was also a negative question, was whether Hungarian law is a personal right or not on the issue of citizenship. Here, too, it is important to see that the court can decide on the circumstances of the case, and I would like to draw attention to the importance and importance of the deflecting clause. Therefore, if the essential parts of the case concern Hungarian law, the court may decide that Hungarian law does apply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-03-07-93	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend certain criminal law laws until closure. Government referral T/14232. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-07-94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, T/14232 on the amendment of certain criminal law laws before you One word: legal certainty is the reason for the necessary and rapid drafting of the bill. Legal certainty is an essential element of the rule of law, the concept of which was filled with substance by the unbroken practice of the Constitutional Court. Legal certainty makes it the duty of the State and, above all, the legislator to ensure that the whole legal system, its parts and the individual legislation are clear, clear, predictable and foreseeable to the recipients of the norm. In this context, the Constitutional Court also stated that legal certainty requires a clear and clear wording of the legislation so that everyone involved can be aware of the legal situation, adapt their decision and conduct to it and be able to account for the consequences. In the last four years, the Constitutional Court has taken two decisions concerning the provisions of the Law on Criminal Procedure concerning the exclusion of a judge. In its decision taken in 2013, it stated as a constitutional requirement that a judge acting in accordance with the rules applicable to the investigating judge was also excluded from the substantive assessment of the case and that, in its decision announced in November 2016, it was also a constitutional requirement that a judge who acted as a judge at any stage of the proceedings, including during the investigation, should not take part in the further handling of the criminal case. The intention to enforce legal certainty, the clarification of constitutional requirements for the application of the law, justifies the amendment by the legislator of the provisions of the Law on Criminal Procedure in force in relation to those decisions of the Constitutional Court. Accordingly, the bill contains mainly amendments in the area of criminal proceedings and, in part, amendments in the field of criminal law, which I would like to present with a focus on the most important changes. According to the reasoning of the Constitutional Court decisions published in the context of the provision on the exclusion of a judge, the requirement of impartiality contained in the Fundamental Law requires that no judge who has performed judicial functions at any previous stage of the proceedings, including during the investigation, should participate in the further handling of criminal matters, as it necessarily entails a certain level of preliminary assessment of the evidence. In order to enforce the constitutional requirement laid down in the Constitutional Court's decision, it is essential to reword the provision on the exclusion of a judge by stating that it is excluded from the court's further proceedings following the indictment, who, before the indictment, acted as an investigating judge or an investigating judge's decision. At the same time, it is appropriate to extend the powers of the investigating judge so as to ensure that a decision on the extension of the pre-trial detention and the review of the temporary forced medical treatment can be taken beyond one year from the date on which the order was ordered, since the longer time spent under the coercive measures does not justify a change in the decision-making forum. As a result of a change in the jurisdiction of the investigating judge, it is necessary to amend the existing rules on the forum for the examination of an appeal against the decision of the investigating judge. The enforcement of the constitutional requirement requires that the provisions on the judicial forum system which performs the same tasks in military criminal proceedings be brought into line with the general procedural rules. The bill also corrects the law on delivery of the law on criminal proceedings, in line with the impact of technological developments on everyday life. The practical experience points to the fact that, in the case of a laden person in an unknown place, the delivery of a notice provides a limited access to the file to be served, as the notification will be posted on the billboard of the sending authority, prosecutor or investigating authority and the specific local government. In view of the growing internet use of the public, the bill regularises the publication of notices on the Internet in order to ensure accessibility. This amendment also removes the possibility to notify by means of a press announcement which is unlikely to be used due to the burden of administration and its costs which cannot be recognised as criminal costs, and orders the notification to be published by means of a notice of service. Pursuant to the Directive on freezing and confiscation of criminal offences and their proceeds within the European Union, Member States should ensure that the person concerned has a real opportunity to challenge a decision ordering the freezing of property for subsequent confiscation in court. This decision corresponds to a decision on seizure and detention under the current procedural law, of which the possibility of judicial redress for the latter is already regulated. The amendment also allows judicial review of a decision rejecting a complaint against a decision of the investigating authority concerning confiscation or confiscation order. Following the entry into force, a number of criticisms of the special procedure for juveniles could not be applied and, therefore, the treatment of minors in this area could not be enforced. [[14.50]] Last time, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights initiated an amendment to the special procedure for border closure that would allow for the application of the rules of procedure for minors. Following the government's adoption, it submitted to Parliament as a bill a draft of the new law on criminal proceedings, the provisions of which are in line with this bill in this respect, and it is appropriate to enforce the innovations of the special procedures relating to the border closure for minors, which can be incorporated in a well-defined and effective law before the entry into force of the new law on criminal proceedings. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights will be recommended to amend the rules on the search of penalties, measures, certain coercive measures and the law and its implementing regulation on the enforcement of the detention of offences with a view to clarifying the content of the search. The area of criminal law is also affected by the amendment which makes minor clarifications, inter alia, as regards the settlement of claims on the same line, in the rules on compensation for accommodation in breach of fundamental rights. Mr President, Dear House, The adoption of the bill will ensure a clear presentation of constitutional requirements in the text and full compliance with that directive. The amendment to the law on the jurisdiction of the investigating judge shall be exempt from the jurisdiction of the courts of which a single judge acting at the first instance acts in accordance with the rules governing the investigating judge, and also from the jurisdiction of the courts, which, according to the law currently in force, function as an appeal forum in such cases. In this context, the number of judges who are not excluded from the substantive assessment of the case and who can form the second instance council may further improve the timeliness of the case. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support T/14232. Bill No. 1. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-07-95	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Répássy Róbert. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-03-07-96	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I will start by saying that the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance Group supports the bill. The bill seems to regulate loosely related or loosely related issues, and also at a time when the Parliament will start negotiating the new law on criminal proceedings tomorrow. Why is it necessary for this law before us to be supported by the House and adopted before the new Criminal Procedure Act? In any case, for reasons of guarantee, it is necessary for constitutional guarantee reasons that the Parliament amends the rules on criminal proceedings and the enforcement of sentences at some points. What are these warranty constitutional issues? As the Secretary of State explained, the Constitutional Court examined the rules on the exclusion of the judge in two cases. This is our current law on criminal proceedings 21. Paragraph 3 of this Article. Any exclusion of a judge, or rules of conflict of interest in another context or in another approach, shall take into account the constitutional aspect that there is no doubt that a judge is impartial. And now, of course, in this regard, although there are representatives of political parties sitting here, this is not the impartiality that the Fundamental Law is talking about, but rather the bias of the judge, the impartiality of the judge in the case we must establish guarantee rules. In this regard, it is of great importance that a judge who considers the case of a defendant who has been brought before him has met the case before, has met the defendant and has made any decisions. Well, the Constitutional Court, by the way, has, surprisingly, decided that the requirement of impartiality is only met if the judge has not been in any way involved in the preceding stage of criminal proceedings leading to a substantive judgment. So the judge, let's just say, has to meet the defendant for the first time and judge his actions for the first time. It's the only solution that makes the judge impartial. Dear House, To this end, the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act will in future provide that the investigating judge decides on coercive measures and that the person who acted previously as an investigative judge cannot take part in the substantive assessment of the case, nor will the judge who took part in the appeal against the decision of the investigating judge. Whether this is an excessive guarantee, whether the Constitutional Court demands an excessive guarantee, we are not in a position to dispute it, as the Members of Parliament are also subject to the rule that the Constitutional Court's decision is binding on everyone. Therefore, I think it is best to adopt an approach that really represents a turning point in the rule of exclusion of the judge, that only a judge who has previously taken no decision on the defendant's case should judge the action of the defendant. The following question of constitutional guarantee concerns the specific procedure for border-locking offences. Here, in particular, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights criticized the absence of juvenile proceedings. The juvenile proceedings, the rules on juveniles did not have to be applied overall, but, of course, in such cases, all the guarantees were provided which are usually part of criminal proceedings, but the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights objected to the fact that the special rules of the juvenile proceedings were not applied in the assessment of these border-lock crimes. Well, in accordance with the criticism of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, we propose and the Government proposes that the Parliament amends the rules on criminal proceedings concerning the special procedure for the border closure, but so that this does not jeopardise the speed and effectiveness of the procedure. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights also made a recommendation on rules for search and inspection of clothing. In this respect, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights complains that the current rules on search and inspection of clothing can lead to different interpretations, and they can be interpreted as meaning that search and inspection of clothing are not the same coercive measure. Compared to this, the amendment before us would require that clothing screening is a type of search, so basically one of the subjects of the search would be the inspection of clothing, as in practical life, and that is how it should be interpreted in the future. So, following the recommendation of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, we propose that Parliament clarify this situation and, after the amendment, such misunderstandings can be avoided. The bill also contains provisions that are set out in the European Union 2014/42. It follows from Article 8 of its directive, namely that a confiscation order may be challenged before a court. [[15.00]] The possibility of redress before a court is currently granted in the case of lock-down, but this does not fully cover the cases required by the European Union Directive. Thus, the purpose of the amendment is to allow the investigating authority to submit a motion for review against its seizure order. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Finally, but not least, the President of the National Court of Justice initiated the publication of court notices primarily on the Internet in order to achieve long-term and even searchable accessibility. I think that it is in the interests of technology and citizens, who thus have easier access to these court notices, that it requires us. Dear House, The amendment contains all proposals, proposals which, as I have said, strengthen the guarantee rules of criminal proceedings, and it is necessary that they enter into force before the adoption and entry into force of the new law on criminal proceedings, which is why it is necessary for this House to accept these corrections before the new law on criminal proceedings. I'm asking you to support the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-07-97	Thank you. I welcome my fellow Members and give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-03-07-98	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Sometimes, when you sit here in Parliament and listen to a speech, you wonder how much the world can change, how much different rhetoric is often used by the government now than before. I thought I heard back from Mr Répássy's arguments, which were so often raised here, say, in 2010-11 in the floors of the opposition, that the decisions of the Constitutional Court were binding on everyone, and that man was oblivious to it, of course, of course, a parliamentary speech was not the time of nostalgia, but this is what we should say, in 2010-11, János Lázár felt about this matter, when the Fidesz faction overthrew the decisions of the Constitutional Court, when, following a decision of the Constitutional Court, his reaction was not, quite rightly, to Róbert Répássy's decision to accept it, but the reaction was that the same proposal had literally been re-submitted, and, in parallel, the Constitutional Court's power to overrule, which I note, moreover, had not been returned until today. So, the world can change a lot. Of course, I could say that this is joyful, but it would have been even happier if the legal system hadn't been sabotaged the way you did, and that would indeed be your constitutional understanding. Once again, I am not thinking of my fellow Member, Répássy, because I think that this was, in fact, for him at the time, although he represented a lot of cases that did not reflect this, but basically it was quite different for the number one leaders at the time, and I have to say that unfortunately it is now, and it is now in a slightly softer form. At least, I'll tell you one more time, in seven years, we've made so much progress, it's a big deal. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: There is a reason for this too!]] There is obviously a reason for this, as my fellow Member Gyure said in his interrogation, and then explains what it is. I have a pretty good idea, too, but let's just say that at least this time of year, you can appreciate that. Of course, it is certainly different if the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court that Fidesz alone has set up, makes a decision, and another is when one is independent of you - but once again, let us not go into this. I would like to turn to this proposal in particular. I agree with the fact that the amendment of the law is necessary following or on the basis of the decision of the Constitutional Court, which is why, of course, there are elements of this proposal that we can support. The whole proposal is not yet, in this form - and I will tell you why not. It is the right and the right direction, and I can say that sometimes there is innovation in the Ministry of Justice's repertoire that can be considered remarkable. For example, in military proceedings, since there is a military council today, I believe, on the judgeboard, it is therefore transferring the powers of review to the jurisdiction of ordinary civil courts. Indeed, in order to assess the need for prior detention or measures, special military knowledge is not generally required, which can be expected in a military council. In the substantive assessment of the case, yes, but in order to take this from there, it is possible to exempt the military council from being overruled, and therefore, of course, it is possible to comply with the criteria set out in this decision by the Constitutional Court, even by setting up a military council. It's one of those, I'm gonna say it again, innovation, which I'm saying is ingenious. And I say that because the other part is not. Because here, I am taking power from the military council in this regard and transferring it to a non-military council of the same level, warranty rights remain unchanged in my view; once again, because I am not taking away the whole case, but only the powers to review the coercive measure. However, honourable Members, it is not always good to go in the direction of easy resistance. And the government, when it comes to jurisdictional issues with the courts, does that. We have repeatedly opposed it, and here we are faced with a similar one, that if the court receives a new task, whether from an EU obligation or because the government has such an idea that it would be good, then your reaction is not to increase the number of judges to this extent, let us say, to increase judicial assistance, or to use another solution to enable these proceedings to be carried out, whether by developing material circumstances, but, after all, to reduce guarantee rules that are not financially attractive, usually by referring these tasks to the secretaries. There have been countless classic judicial tasks performed by court secretaries today, and I and other Members in this House have said many times that this is a problem because the secretaries do not have the same independent status as a judge. This reduces the guarantee level for the assessment of these cases. You're not doing anything else right now. What should I do? Obviously, here too, according to the Constitutional Court's decision, where necessary, because, for example, on a Metropolitan Tribunal or a Metropolitan Court, I think it is possible to maintain the same system without any problems. But in a small county where there are significantly fewer judicial councils, there is a much bigger problem. What should be done to ensure that the guarantee level remains the same and, by the way, cases can be dealt with in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision? The number of judges in these places should be improved, status should be created; it is not that large a sum, fellow Members. We have also talked about this countless times, that billions are flying in Parliament on the basis of individual Members' motions, where there are proposals to reduce tax revenue, and where there are additional proposals to some sector. I don't want to fall into the sin of demagogy and say why not spend enough money on health care, because it's such a big system, you really have to really think about where money can be transferred from. [[15.10]] We should solve the problem, but that doesn't belong here. But to create, say, some judicial status in the counties where this is a problem, the percentage of which cannot be shown at the budgetary level. But we shouldn't cut the guarantee level. That is what we will do if we adopt this proposal. For you are suggesting that, when, after a year of pre-trial detention, the decision has finally - let me put it this way - come out of the county, it is possible to establish a more uniform case law, since this was basically one of the main reasons for setting up judgment boards, which is now being abolished. Pre-trial detentions are mandatory, and in any case, however long it may be, remain within the county. This will reduce or hinder the development and maintenance of the legal unit; at least here it could be unified at regional level. Ladies and gentlemen, When there are judges, unfortunately, I have to say - they know very well that I have always defended this occupational branch as 99% of my speeches, when there are judges - who are still stuck in 90, it seems, because in a county where 100 percent of the motions for prior arrests - there was a year, 100 percent of them - were positively judged, it means that they consider their own task to be formal, and they still think that if the prosecutor makes a motion, it is certainly justified. This was specifically a peaceful county, if I remember correctly, in 2010. I hope you've made progress since then. I think 437 of the 437 motions have been put to a positive verdict. No way! Now, at least these decisions would come out of the county once in a while, and they're out. So the judgeboard was able to make a substantial difference - now it can't. Even though there is a professional college, even though he is a member, let's say, the head of the criminal college of the referee, the judicial independence of the court will, of course, remain, and that is the right thing to do. You can give guidance, but you can't override it. And I believe that, if that is the case, they are putting warranty considerations in the background, simply because they do not consider it important to impose or establish some judicial status. But really, I'll say it again: from a budgetary point of view, it's zero. So I can't support proposals that try to solve things by going towards less resistance and violating warranty rights just so that it doesn't cost money; especially when it doesn't, I'll say it again if the budgetary impact is minimal. If the government is willing to change this, we can support the entire proposal, otherwise this is necessary. As regards the Ombudsman's recommendation on minors, we fully agree with him. If you remember, that is exactly what we in the debate in Parliament demanded, namely that because there has been a crime for you now in an important area - and this is now in the context of migration - still a juvenile. It's not okay for every other crime, whether it's the most serious, to be subject to special rules for juveniles in the process, unless it violates the border, because for you, the migrant is the bogeyman. This should also be enforced in the case of minors. I do not want to open up the migration debate, just that a minimum humane procedure can be required, even if a serious crime is committed and especially if it is underage. That's what you don't enforce. I am pleased to see that, in my view, you will come to your senses following the Ombudsman's recommendation. I also welcome the fact that the prison judge may decide to compensate for the accommodations in breach of fundamental rights without the prosecutor's opinion. This is also a step forward. And I also consider the provisions on religious practice to be a step forward, which, in addition to serving as a prison scout, will include prison-mission activities, so they are also positive. I have to say that there are provisions in the legal system that were the same during Fred and Béni, and indeed, if the dinosaur could not deliver the shipment there, this could be done by means of a notice. So, these stone age solutions, if we replace the XXI. With the moderns of the century, I can only advocate this, in this way the notification, i.e. in the case of announcements, that a notice can and must be published on the Internet, instead of putting it in a newspaper ad, I consider this entirely acceptable. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the direction of the proposal is good, and there is a solution where it is good, where it is not. And let me live with one more metaphor. Dear Secretary of State, What you're suggesting in court override, I can compare it to the time when the frost destroys one of the roads, and instead of filling the holes in the local government, it puts out the speed limit sign. And indeed, if you don't go 50 on it, but 20 on it, then the axle doesn't break. That's what this is all about. Instead of finding a real solution to the rule of law following the decision of the Constitutional Court, they instead reduce warranty rights and try to achieve results. I hope that we can reach a compromise in this regard. If so, we can support the proposal if not, then we can't. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-07-99	Thank you. I now give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-03-07-100	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/14232 on the amendment of certain criminal law laws Legislative bill No 1 mainly amends the provisions of criminal proceedings and, to a lesser extent, the provisions of the law on the enforcement of prisons. The 19th of 1998 on criminal proceedings Law on the exclusion of judges, Act Be. 21. As regards paragraph 3 (a), the Constitutional Court has also taken two decisive decisions in the last four years. One of these is the Constitutional Court's 33/2013. Resolution Ab, in which it was established as a constitutional requirement that Be. 21. Pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of the Rules applicable to the investigating judge, the determining judge shall be deemed to be excluded from the substance of the case. The second decision of the Constitutional Court, 21/2016. Ab also stated that it was a constitutional requirement that a judge who acted as a judge at any earlier stage of the proceedings, including during the investigation, should not take part in the further handling of the criminal case. The constitutional requirements are justified by the clarification of legislation in accordance with those Constitutional Court decisions by Be. amend the relevant provisions of this Agreement. By means of the amending provision of the bill, Hungary also complies with the provisions of Directive 2014/42/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the freezing and confiscation of criminal offences and their proceeds within the European Union. Ladies and Gentlemen, The main changes made by the bill are as follows. The Be. modification of several of its provisions, the most important of which is Be. 21. The rewording of the provision in paragraph 3 (a), stating that, following the indictment, the court's further proceedings are excluded from the proceedings by a judge who, before the indictment, acted as an investigating judge or as an appeal against the decision of the investigating judge. [[15.20]] As regards paragraph 1 (a), the Constitutional Court has also taken two decisive decisions over the last four years. One of these is the Constitutional Court's 33/2013. Resolution Ab, in which it was established as a constitutional requirement that Be. 21. Pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of the Rules applicable to the investigating judge, the determining judge shall be deemed to be excluded from the substance of the case. The second decision of the Constitutional Court, 21/2016. Ab also stated that it was a constitutional requirement that a judge who acted as a judge at any earlier stage of the proceedings, including during the investigation, should not take part in the further handling of the criminal case. The constitutional requirements are justified by the clarification of legislation in accordance with those Constitutional Court decisions by Be. amend the relevant provisions of this Agreement. By means of the amending provision of the bill, Hungary also complies with the provisions of Directive 2014/42/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the freezing and confiscation of criminal offences and their proceeds within the European Union. Ladies and Gentlemen, The main changes made by the bill are as follows. The Be. modification of several of its provisions, the most important of which is Be. 21. The rewording of the provision in paragraph 3 (a), stating that, following the indictment, the court's further proceedings are excluded from the proceedings by a judge who, before the indictment, acted as an investigating judge or as an appeal against the decision of the investigating judge. (15.20) The amendment shall refer the extension of the pre-trial and pre-indictment arrest to the jurisdiction of the investigating judge, irrespective of the period from the date of its order. In view of this, the bill regulates the appeal against the decision of the investigating judge in accordance with the forum for examining the remedy following the indictment. In this context, the rules on the investigating judge are also being amended in military criminal proceedings. Pursuant to Article 8 ( 4) of Directive 2014/42/EU, Member States are required to demonstrate that the persons concerned have an effective opportunity to challenge a freezing order in the courts for the purpose of subsequent confiscation. The possibility of bringing an appeal before a court in the event of being placed under a lock has been granted. The Be. 195. Paragraph 6 is amended so that the purpose of the investigating authority is the Be. 151. It is also possible to submit a motion for review against a decision ordering an seizure pursuant to point (b) of paragraph 2 of this Article. On the basis of the initiative of the President of the National Court of Justice, the bill also regularises the publication of notices primarily on the Internet, in view of the growing internet use of the public. Due to the special procedure for border-locking offences, special rules of procedure apply to minors, as the treatment of minors in this area cannot be ignored. In view of the above, guarantees of juvenile proceedings can be introduced into the special procedure for border-locking offences in such a way that the amendment does not lead to a significant deterioration in the speed and effectiveness of proceedings. Following the government's adoption and submission to Parliament of the draft new law on criminal proceedings, which we will discuss tomorrow, the provisions of which are in line with the bill in this respect, it is therefore appropriate to enforce the renewal of special procedures for minors in relation to the border closure before the entry into force of the new law on criminal proceedings. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights made a recommendation on the 2013 CCXL on the enforcement of the detention of infringements. Law and its implementing regulation amending its rules on search from the end to clarify the content of the search. The amendment makes it clear what activities are involved in the search, i.e. that the screening of clothes is a type of search itself. Ladies and Gentlemen, Please support T/14232 on the amendment of certain criminal law laws. The Parliamentary Group of the KDNP supports bill No 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-07-101	Thank you. I now give the floor to Csaba Gyure, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-03-07-102	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have before us a bill which is not common in the way that my fellow Member Vejkey said that we will discuss the new Code of Criminal Procedure tomorrow, and the vast majority of this legislative amendment is linked to criminal proceedings. So when we decide on this, we know well that we will only determine the course of criminal proceedings for a very short period of time, which in this case will take about 9 months, if the new Code of Criminal Procedure is voted here in Parliament, but it will obviously be done, as this bill will certainly be voted. My fellow Member Bárándy had a somewhat provocative point in my direction about giving an opinion - which I did not plan at all - on legislation, why Fidesz' attitude to legislation has changed over the past period. I obviously didn't want to say anything about it, but since that's been said, he said, "I'm sure I'll give you some reason why I see it. Obviously, it was the loss of two thirds that was a limit in legislation when we saw some positive change; before, it really took us through it in full force, it didn't run through five-party negotiations, it didn't talk to anyone, it was arrogantly passed through and we talked about legislation sweeping all opposition proposals. Obviously, there is at least some formal change in this regard in recent times, when there are indeed five-party negotiations, where appropriate, even a opposition amendment may be included in the level of acceptance until it was long overdue. So obviously that's where I see the change - the arrogant behavior given by the two-thirds - that shouldn't have been lived otherwise, but the Fidesz lived, and unfortunately, here in the area of legislation. Obviously, it follows that a lot of things had to be changed that you wouldn't have wanted either - I am referring to the pro-government representatives here - as well as the Constitution, the Fundamental Law, which was rock-solid according to the original plans that it could not be modified within a cycle, and then, if, within two cycles, Members will see that it is really necessary, they can only be touched. In comparison, it also changed and changed constantly. So it also showed that when opposition opinions are not taken into account, there is not much good coming from them. Obviously, when, before the Fundamental Law was passed, man studied at international level what a good basic law was, from all countries, the fact that the basic law is good, which can be accepted by the parliament of that country as much as possible, is a good basic law. You have not been able to create a good Fundamental Law, and obviously that is why you have had to and must be constantly amended; but that is not what this law is supposed to do. What belongs to this law is that we are really talking about a very short-term legislation; and I am going to come back again for the last seven years: if the opposition has proposed this at any time, when there was a major amendment planned, then they said that this was not necessary and that it would be together with the other. This question may arise here, too, as to whether there is a need for a legislation for these nine months. I believe that if that legislation is positive, that amendment will bring about a positive change, even if it will only take 9 months or a year and a half, and another code will repeal it. I think that there is a place for this, too, because it is clear that the Constitutional Court has decided to give guidance on the exclusion of judges, which is indeed appropriate to regulate at the level of law. After all, the rules in this regard are guarantee rules which must obviously be laid down in the highest level of legislation, and indeed the Constitutional Court is in a direction, but it is always better to include them in a law, which is adopted by Parliament. I think that these are guarantee rules that the Constitutional Court, for example, has adopted in 21/2016. The Court of Justice also stated in the Constitutional Court's decision, which is worth including in the legislation, and in the course of criminal proceedings, as pointed out by the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court's decision, it really makes me wonder whether a person who has once taken a position on that issue, such as an investigative judge, or who has decided on a preliminary arrest, will indeed be impartial or at some level biased. Obviously, if someone is in a judicial position, I have never been, but if I try to imagine at least, then obviously there is some bias, as I believe my fellow Member Répássy said, that this has caused disputes within the judicial society, whether the judge will really be biased or not. But let us accept the opinion of the Constitutional Court on this subject, and let us say that it can indeed be biased, because who once made a decision that the person should be placed in pre-trial detention, because the evidence of the case, which has already been evaluated by the determining judge, will be evaluated and added to another procedure, in fact, it will be virtually as if he had to be reviewed himself. Indeed, it is harder to expect a judge to find out that I made the wrong decision then, and that I would overrule my own opinion, and that I would only absolve that defendant because he did not do so, and it is true that a year and a half ago I saw it differently. [[15.30]] So there really is a guarantee rule in this, that if we rule out a judge who has acted before, who has actually reviewed the case documents, considered the evidence, the gravity of the action, the danger of escaping, hiding, and the rest, he has already put them on the balance, and has made a decision, it is not certain that he will be able to make a meaningful decision without being completely biased. So in this respect, I think that it is certainly welcome that this will also appear at the legal level. The following is what I would like to talk about, the delivery of notices and the proposal from the President of the OBH, which has been included in the law, on which I note that it is indeed the truth and we should start as a fact on the question that, with the proliferation of electronic devices, the fact that a delivery of notices will take place by electronic means is that the court has to publish it on its website, this is certainly a modern, welcome and good direction. So there's no problem with that. My problem with this paragraph is that the switch is happening overnight. There's nothing wrong with that on its own. But when the usual thing, for example, is that if there are a lot of stakeholders, there are a lot of defendants in criminal proceedings, and if they are used to receiving the notification, say, through the county press, and from the next day, when this law comes into force, and from then on they will be informed electronically, on the court's website, I think there will be a transitional period that will cause a lot of confusion, and many will not know about that notification because they still expect it to appear in the press. So in this case, I think it would be appropriate to introduce a transitional rule and through the press... - as it appears in the explanatory statement that it is expensive, technically difficult, I accept and agree with that, and it is indeed a cost, as stated in the explanatory statement, that it will not be possible to enforce as a cost in criminal proceedings. Therefore, this cost arises for the State and it would indeed be good to exempt the State. However, I think that at least a period should be given, and I think that a year or two would be necessary in this regard, when even the old rule remains as a temporary measure, and, let us say, in two years' time, the part that comes into force is that it is only on the court's website and is out of the press. So I think the two could be kept parallel. Clarification of the rules of search, that is clear, there is no problem with that. In accordance with Article 8 (4) of the 2014 EU 42 Directive, Member States are required to ensure that the freezing order can be reviewed by court for subsequent confiscation purposes under this Directive. Yes, there have been previous speeches to this effect that this has been done in part, but it has not been fully assured, for example, when ordered by the investigating authority, it will not reach the court stage, so the court will not see this. I think it is certainly welcome that this strengthens the guarantee rules, so it will bring in a greater guarantee in this case if the court also reviews whether or not the assets to be confiscated in the future should indeed be seized. Obviously, there's a bigger guarantee in case the court saw this. The other thing that has come up is that in relation to child protection, juvenile offenders actually had a part of the law that left out the provision for minors in the case of border-locking crimes. Obviously, it is also appropriate to extend the legislation to these cases, so it is indeed appropriate that, if juvenile offenders are involved and offences related to the border lock are committed, then, let us say, house arrest can be downloaded or enforced in a child protection institute. So this is definitely a positive step. With regard to entry into force: this is clear that if Decision No 21/2016 does not specify when it should apply, the legislator may determine this. Obviously, the amendment to this rule is good. So, on the basis of all of this, I think that this legislation is largely positive, so it is necessary for the majority of its elements to enter into force for this short transitional period. Some minor amendments would be necessary, such as the issue of guarantee rules for prior arrest, but I also consider it necessary to ensure that delivery by the press for a period of time during the delivery of the notice. I also agree with the rest of the legislation. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-07-103	Thank you. The group of the LMP is not present, so they do not say the keynote speaker. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Congressman Robert Répássy submitted a two-minute comment. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-07-104	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to go beyond the limits of the bill on the agenda, I just want to clarify that we are proposing this bill not because the Constitutional Court would force it on us, but because we ourselves fully agree with the requirement of impartiality that judges are required by the Fundamental Law. The other issue is that the Constitutional Court has interpreted the requirements of impartiality very widely here. In a specific criminal proceedings situation, I would say, in essence, for decades or more, that since the regime change, the conflict of interest situation which the Constitutional Court has never challenged has now been declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. But there is nothing wrong with that, I say it again, so the Constitutional Court does not force this decision on us, but the Parliament fully respects the requirement of impartiality when it adopts this bill. The fact that the Constitutional Court's decisions are binding on everyone, and I will try to stay on the subject from now on is, of course, binding on everyone, but whether the decisions of the Constitutional Court are binding on constitutional power. What you, Congressman Bárándy, call overconstruction, in fact, the constitutional power has exercised its constitutional power and changed the constitution. I note only in parentheses that, by the way, the amendment of the Constitution has never been made with a content which the Constitutional Court objects to, but with some other content, but no doubt on the question examined by the Constitutional Court, the Fundamental Law was amended by the former constitutional power. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Dr. István Józsa: There is no independent Constitutional Court! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-07-105	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy in a normal time frame.
u2017-03-07-106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to say one reaction to Congressman Répássy. There have been quite a lot of studies in the last six to seven years on how people appreciate the conduct of the legislative or constitutional power, as regards the override of the Constitutional Court decisions, and I have to say that those who wrote about this have, almost without exception, come to the conclusion that what the constitutional power did at that time was an abuse of constitutional power. I can say, Mr Répássy, that I have read this in my studies, and that is my position. [[15.40]] The constitutional power must also respect the provisions of the Constitution as long as they are in force, and the Constitution, the former Constitution, is a very specific element of the current Fundamental Law, that one of the pillars of the rule of law is the division of power and the system of brakes and balances. If we take this seriously, it also applies to constitutional power. The constitutional power is not unlimited power in a rule of law. The constitutional power can indeed change the constitution, but it cannot do that, in effect, annihilate or take over the role of another branch of power. However, if you do not simply override the decisions of the Constitutional Court by means of constitution, you will not exercise your power, but you will abuse it and virtually eliminate an independent public body from the system of brakes and balances, which does not comply with the provisions of the old constitution or the provisions of the new Fundamental Law. The constitutional power can rewrite the constitution at any time, but it doesn't matter what its motivation is, and it doesn't matter how it works. These are what these authors have written about in the studies, which I am now putting together in a very simple language; otherwise I have written such a study myself, but it doesn't matter, because I am a biased politician here in the House, but I didn't really read the rebuttal of this. [[Dr. István Józsa: I can't!]] I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the constitutional power cannot be outside the provisions of the Constitution, the general criteria of the rule of law, and certainly not the idea of the rule of law, which is what it did then. And how could that not have been the case, my honourable fellow Member? Well, I remember it differently. I recall that the bill that János Lázár presented in 2010, for example, and at the same time undermined the powers of the Constitutional Court, was virtually literally the same as what the Constitutional Court had repealed; if I remember correctly, it was a little more restrictive than it was, so he added a shovel to it, but it was practically the same text that went in. What's this if it's not over-constitution? What if it is not an abuse of constitutional power? Once again, that was our opinion six or seven years ago. Now I can tell you that in the legal system, I have not read any other views on this. [[Dr. Répássy Robert intervenes.]] If there is - and I do not dispute that, because you obviously cannot think that you have found and read everything that has ever been written in Hungary in the last six years - then I can say one thing for sure: that legal scientists who think otherwise will remain in a small minority, and I fear that this ratio will not change in the future. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-07-107	Thank you. I am asking if there is still any intention of comment in my fellow Members. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a candidate. The general debate is therefore closed. As rapporteur, I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2017-03-07-108	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I'd just like to respond with a few sentences. First of all, I thank you for the fact that, in broad terms, my fellow Members considered the proposal and its objectives to be technically eligible in their contributions. My fellow Member Bárándy had some specific suggestions, for example, regarding the enlargement of the courts. I think it goes beyond the framework of this bill to discuss this issue, because it is obvious that this issue should not be raised and studied in this regard. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: About what?]] I also think that the ongoing procedural laws are all aimed at reducing the burden on the courts, and in terms of the number of judges this could be a sort of solution, but this is obviously only part of this issue. The bias or non-biasion of courts, the need for independence, impartiality, the level at which judges decide on these matters, does not in itself affect their decision. The other part is that only the Curia can take decisions to unite the law, and these cases, which it has challenged, obviously do not rise to the level of the Curia. In the case of the increase in the number of judges, it was also mentioned in Budapest that there is no problem with the selection of the judges, but one aspect still needs to be taken into account: the number of cases in the rural courts and the metropolitan courts that come to a judge, so it is obvious that this is also a rational barrier in this area, how these questions can be resolved. I would not go into the issue of whether or not the constitutional power overshadows me or the powers of the Constitutional Court, after they have not been questioned here in this proposal. We will be able to hold this debate on other draft laws later. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-07-109	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. This concludes the discussion of our agendas. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First of all, István Szávay, on behalf of Jobbik, applied:. Why I cannot travel from Győr to Dunaszerdahely, from Nyíregyháza to Beregszász, from Debrecen to Oradea, from Szeged to Szabadka, from Pécs to Osijek and from Lenti to Lendva. Or why is it more important for the Government to support Albanian and Macedonian flights than to improve border transport? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-07-110	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I was pleased to see that you stayed for this speech, because I have spoken several times between the walls of the House about the difficult public transport problems between Hungarian communities from abroad and Hungary. I am convinced that Hungary's important task is not only to facilitate the rapid and simpler crossing of borders, but also to travel between border settlements, thereby strengthening Hungarian-Hungarian contact and cooperation. Dear Parliament, I have looked at the situation of cross-border rail transport in recent days along these lines, but the picture is devastating in almost all regions. Just a few examples: From Szeged on the road to Timisoara, 154 kilometers away, or Aradra, 103 kilometers away, can only be reached through Békéscsaba, with five or four hours of travel due to the transfer and rare transport. From Békéscsaba, the seven daily trains travel an average of two hours on the road to Arad. From Debrecen to Oradea and from Nyíregyháza to Szatmárnémeti you cannot travel directly by train. Along the road, along with 75 kilometers of Debrecen-Oradea, the journey takes two and a half hours, and more than four hours from Nyíregyháza and Szatmárnemeti to take the 102 kilometer journey. There is already a direct rail link between Debrecen and Szatmárnémeti, two trains travel three hours a day on the 108 km section. From Mátészalka to Nagykároly, 35 km away, you can also get directly by two trains, and indirectly by the 9 hours 12 minutes train to Debrecen, the journey time is amazing: 1 hour 11 minutes, while, for example, the 50 km between Nyíregyháza and Debrecen can be taken in 30-40 minutes by a passenger train. I'm not even talking about the fact that it's almost impossible to travel from Oradea to Szeged because of rare public transport and multiple transfers. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, the situation is not better in Transcarpathia, Highlands and Southlands. The 73-kilometer Nyíregyháza-Csap is taken by the train in two hours, and it is only possible to get to Ungvár, but no longer to Munkács, Beregszász or Nagyszőlős, as there is no railway connection. Last week, my colleague Csaba Gyüre spoke about the importance of restarting the railway link between Szalóka and Tiszaszentmárton. Trains from Budapest often and have a good driving time, just as you can get to Košice from Miskolc, but let's say there are no trains from Győr to Dunaszerdahely or from Ózd to Rimazombat. From Szeged you can't train to Szabadka, 45 kilometers away from Timisoara and Arad, only with the transfer to Kiskunfélegyháza, which means a three-hour journey in very toothy traffic conditions. There is currently no public transport between the Drávateg and Hungary, since in 2012 the Croatian railway stopped the international train train Pélmonostor-Pécs and the international fast train Sarajevo-Budapest. [[15.50]] Instead, in May 2013 a regular direct bus route between Pécs and Osijek was launched, but this ended two months later, and since then no one has offered a solution to the interdrava Hungarians, even though the Youth Community of Croatian Hungarians has collected signatures and organized a demonstration to this end. Finally, the smallest national community, Slovenia's Hungarians, has no public transport links with Hungary. Despite the fact that the Lendva-Rédics railway line and the Muraszombat-Szentgotthárd railway connection were included in the minutes of the Hungarian-Slovenian Minority Committee in November 2015, no progress has been made since then. By the way, I spoke on this issue already in 2011 and then in 2015. Dear Parliament, As a responsible and governing party, Jobbik does not claim that rail transport should be carried out on all these lines. At the same time, it would be important to assess possible needs in our fragmented areas and, in cooperation with neighbouring states, to pay significantly more attention to the development of railway public transport infrastructure, in addition to opening new border crossings. For 48 months, the government has supported five weekly return flights worth more than HUF 4 billion from April this year to Podgorica, Priština, Sarajevo, Skopje and Tirana. So the single-road grant is almost HUF 2 million, which is brutally large; it is aircraft. I think that at least that amount of money would also deserve the development of cross-border public transport infrastructure. For many, it may be more important to get to Szabadka or Munkács quickly, such as the Montenegrin or Kosovo capital. Dear fellow Members, Jobbik is one of those XXI. He is fighting for a better Hungarian future in the century, where as a Debrecen, it can be no easier than a pleasant Sunday afternoon trip to Oradea, a realistic option to work in Dunaszerdahely as a Győr, or vice versa, and it is not impossible to move out to Beregszász, while working on the other side of the border. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-07-111	Thank you. After the last agenda, Mr Tamás Pintér, on behalf of Jobbik, asked for a speech:. Leave the workers of the professions that are harmful to health - Let the government finally take responsibility for the solution to the problem that it has created. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-07-112	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I asked for the floor because of the early pensions and the lack of it, since in my city, Dunaferres workers continue, I note that they rightly demand the restoration of this institutional system, which would have been enjoyed by those of this age before 2014. However, we regret the fact that, following the abolition of early retirement pensions, there is still insufficient incentive to replace it, to resolve the situation of workers who need it most. I would like to remind this House that Fidesz has already undertaken in the 2014 wage agreements to instead develop and introduce a new construction from 2015. However, it seems that the government does not want to play a role in remedying the problem it has created. However, a number of trade unions warn that early retirement and the lack of an institution that triggers it can cause serious problems. Of course, the aim is, of course, to improve working conditions, but where this cannot be fully resolved, it would be appropriate to continue to grant this age reduction to workers in such working conditions. Another positive effect would be to increase, for example, the involvement of young people in work, thereby reducing the number of unemployed people and creating the possibility of decent retirement. Trade unions in areas that are harmful to health stress that the abolition of early retirement schemes has a negative impact on hundreds of workers, such as in Dunaújváros, blasters, railwaymen, firefighters and laboratory workers. These are just a few of the occupations for which it is vital to maintain the age discount. I am confident that the government's intention to reduce the number of pensioners is not to reduce the number of people working in a dangerous establishment, especially the fact that a large percentage of those working in a dangerous establishment will not even be retired if they have to work up to the retirement age. However, we welcome the initiative taken by trade unions and agreed with employers, which would trigger early retirement, according to which health-risk working conditions could be identified in the future, not in accordance with uniform rules, but in terms of jobs. Workers in such jobs could receive compensation, which could be granted in the form of more freedom or even extra money. Unfortunately, according to the Hungarian Trade Union Association, there is no progress in the matter, because the government does not want to play a meaningful role in solving the problem. The government has not done anything for years to promote a stable initiative. Jobbik will do everything in its power - at the latest when we get on the government - to return early retirement and to make compensation for it through financial resources. However, it would be time for Fidesz to finally recognise the difficulties and risks of each profession and to make substantial progress on the package of compensation proposals, actively involving trade unions, employers and workers. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-07-113	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 15:56 p.m.]]
