u2017-05-05-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning, fellow Members. I welcome you all with love. Welcome to our co-workers. Take your seats. The 22nd day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, notary and notary Attila Gelencsér will be here to help me. I welcome our dear guests and all those who are monitoring our work today. Dear Parliament, A general debate will follow on the bill on the public-credit register of general authorisations for litigation and non-court proceedings until closure. The government referral is T/15358. can be accessed by everyone on our IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-05-05-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, As you know, this House adopted the new Civil Procedure Act on 22 November 2016, which will enter into force on 1 January 2018. The new civil order introduces a number of innovations compared to the existing legislation aimed at ensuring the effectiveness of civil proceedings, i.e. within an effective and reasonable period of time. At the same time, the changes brought about by the new code naturally entail the revision of the legal system, the need to create a legislative environment adapted to new legal institutions and new regulatory solutions. The bill that I am about to present now also serves to complete the regulation of the new civil procedure by creating the necessary detailed rules for the new element of the regulation. Article III of the 1952 Civil Procedure Act currently in force In accordance with the provisions of Law No 13, the general power of attorney shall replace the specific power of attorney for each case only before a specific court which maintains the register. The reform of these rules has long been on the agenda, given that the register of general powers is currently neither uniform nor public-credited, the register is separate by court and is still paper-based in actual practice. CXXX of 2016 on the new civil order that will enter into force on 1 January 2018. Act 71. However, pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section 3, the national and public-credit register of general authorisations is operated by the President of the National Court Office. The national electronic register is relevant for the fact that any court or, in order to carry out its duties in connection with judicial enforcement, the independent judicial enforcer may also have direct access to it. In judicial and non-court proceedings, the registration of general powers in this way can effectively ensure prompt and credible proof of the existence and extent of the right of representation based on a general mandate. The bill therefore provides a suitable means to ensure that the right of representation is not justified separately in each court procedure, but that it is sufficient to verify its existence only in the single register. It is sufficient, on the basis of the bill, to register the general authorisation before a single court, as a result of the completion of the necessary registration procedure, and this may replace the individual authorisation before all courts of the country. This relieves courts from administrative burdens because it is not necessary to register the general authorisation in all courts concerned and to carry out the registration procedure in this regard if the party intends to authorise its representative to take several proceedings before a court. The new legislation is also expected to play a role in reducing the length of court proceedings, because it will not be necessary to call the party to justify the right of representation, for example, at the court hearing and, in view of this, to postpone the procedural action itself, where appropriate. From a different perspective, the administrative burden is also waived by the parties to the proceedings, because, as has already been mentioned above, repeated proof of the existing right of representation in different proceedings is no longer necessary if the party empowers the same representative to represent him in connection with various proceedings pending before several courts. Furthermore, the party does not need to register its general mandate in all the courts concerned, and it will be sufficient to do so once. In particular, the bill sets out the data content of the register and sets a procedural procedure for examining the registration of data and makes it possible to fill in the gaps in the request for data entry. The appropriate submission of an application for data entry shall be supported by the requirement to use a form. The request for data entry may be rejected in the absence of the necessary conditions, but the right of appeal is, of course, available. In order to ensure public credibility and up-to-dateness, the registering court may, on its own initiative, transfer to the register data changes which it detects in particular on the basis of data from other official registers, such as business registers. The regulation of the Ptk. It is also adapted to its provision on general authorisations. If, after five years, the general mandate is the Ptk. the authorisation is automatically deleted from the register. The bill contains in detail the guarantee procedural rules related to the knowledge and management of the records, with a particular emphasis on the protection of the data processed at an appropriate level. The bill therefore aims to achieve the objective of the regulatory concept of the new civil order and to implement a system of registration that is suited to the challenges and technological possibilities of the modern age. Dear House, On a general basis, I wanted to present the objective of the bill on the public-credit register of general authorisations for court proceedings and non-court proceedings, the essential criteria of the regulation, and the social effects it had hoped for. However, I stress that this proposal relates to the new civil procedure that you have already adopted, and contains the necessary legislative provisions for the proper application of the new code of general powers. I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss and adopt the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-05-05-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The main speaker's speeches will now take place within a 15-15-minute time frame. I give the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Mr István Vitányi, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-05-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The Act on Civil Procedure adopted by the Parliament, which will enter into force on 1 January 2018, already provides for a national and public-credit register of general authorisations. The purpose of the bill before us is to ensure that the existence and extent of the right of representation based on a general mandate based on a general mandate is certified more effectively in court proceedings and non-court proceedings by means of a national register of general powers which are available for direct access by public, electronic and legal courts. This means that the system of registration established by the proposal provides for the possibility of registering a general power of attorney, which may give rise to proceedings before several courts, which has a positive effect on both courts and parties to proceedings, since the parties are exempt from administrative burden. It can be said that, in practice, the non-court proceedings for the registration of a general authorisation will be conducted from now on according to the applicant's place of residence, and if he is a legal person, the court of the capital or county competent at the place of residence. It follows that, on the basis of a general mandate entered in the national register, the delegate may then deal with the matters of his principal before any court. As can be found in the detailed justification of the bill, the scope of the proposal covers the recording of data on the general powers of attorney which give rise to proceedings before civil and administrative courts, but does not cover criminal proceedings or, inter alia, non-court proceedings which do not qualify as non-court proceedings. [[9.10]] For example, the order for payment procedure does not fall within the scope of the proposal, which is known to be a civil non-court procedure falling within the competence of the notary, but also covers the enforcement procedure, which is a civil non-court procedure falling within the jurisdiction of the court. It is also worth mentioning that the scope to be included in the register serves on the one hand the clear identification of the authorisation holder and the authorised person, on the other hand, the existence or deletion of the general authorisation or, in the case of restriction of the right of representation, the public authentic certification of the scope of the authorisation. Dear House, As a general rule, if nothing else emerges from the general mandate, it should be presumed, until proven otherwise, that it gives rise to representation in any judicial proceedings governed by this law. However, the general authorisation may be limited. At the time of the restriction, the power of attorney shall clearly state the scope of the authorisation and the scope of the authorisation shall be indicated in the register. The application for registration shall be made on a form, the content of which shall be laid down in an implementing regulation. This preparation is necessary because, if the form is completed in a reasonable manner, it is expected that less time will be required for the court to issue a request for correction. I note that it is in order to eliminate possible abuses that the application for registration or scope of the General Powers of Procedure, to modify its duration, is, in principle, put forward by the power-holder. However, proof of the authorised acceptance declaration shall be subject to registration. Overall, the new civil order introduces a national, uniform electronic register of general powers, which should be public-credited, responsible for its operation by the President of the OBH, and the general mandate may now apply to proceedings before all courts in the country. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz fraction, in agreement with the government, considers it necessary to make the scope of general powers uniform and national, since Pp. The aim is to develop a system of records that is suited to the challenges and technological potential of the modern age, which is intended as a means of achieving the objective of perefficiencies set out in its regulatory approach. I urge you to support the motion and the adoption of the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-05-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Csaba Gyüre. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-05-5	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, When the Jobbik Movement for Hungary came to Parliament, it announced in its programme that what accelerates court proceedings in any form, makes the functioning of the courts more efficient, supports it itself, and we ourselves will present such proposals, and we will continue to act in this way after we enter the government, because we believe that it is very important that judicial proceedings are as effective as possible, as quickly as possible. At the moment when we're discussing this bill, it's still a very small segment of this acceleration, but it's definitely a forward-looking thing we're dealing with. Why is that? Because of the civil order law in force so far and in force until the end of this year, Article III of 1952. The law regulates the general powers of attorney as follows. The registered general power of attorney shall replace the specific power of attorney for each case in the court in which the register is kept. It also shows that only and exclusively one, i.e. in a court where it was registered, replaces the special mandate only there, so it doesn't actually speed up the process much. Obviously, when a lawyer from a company, for example, who works on a continuous assignment and has many lawsuits, is registered and usually acts in a court of jurisdiction, he obviously helps because then there is no need to attach the power of attorney to individual cases. But at the moment when it has to be in another court, this general mandate does not apply, or if it wants to be valid, it must always be handed down and registered in all courts in which it usually attends. This legislation now simplifies and accelerates this process. What is the purpose of regulation? On the one hand, to be public-credited, which is very important, because so far it has not been public-credited. The second is that the system itself is carried out under an electronic procedure, and that it will be available through direct access by the determining courts, and this will be a national register. What is most important is that it is public-credited, so it is clearly stated to everyone that this general mandate exists, it does not exist, it also includes its scope and its time limits. It's electronic, which means it can be accessed by anyone inside the electronic system. All courts have the possibility of direct access, and this is at national level. So if a judge looks into the case discussed at the most distant court, such as a Nyíregyháza court, would later be transferred to another court, or who is registered at the Nyíregyháza court and, where appropriate, negotiates at a court in Szombathely, then the new general mandate will apply, of course, if it does not contain restrictions. Who are you simplifying the procedure for? Obviously, the courts' proceedings are clearly simplified, since they do not have to be registered in every court, they will only be in one court, and they will obviously simplify the affairs of the parties and lawyers, because they only have to announce this permanent mandate in one court, and they will operate in all courts. According to the general justification of the bill, the proposal serves to achieve the objective of persuasiveness. Well, that's true, and that's very important, but you also have to see that this affects a tiny segment of per-efficiency, but it's definitely positive. The legal fact of representation and the scope of the general mandate are confirmed by this new general mandate. It gives the right to be represented in any court proceedings in both litigation and non-court cases. The legislation also sets the time limit for this general mandate, when it says that it can be granted for a maximum period of five years, so that an unlimited general mandate will expire in five years. This shall be initiated by the competent court or tribunal of the applicant's place of residence and shall register it. This also serves to ensure that it can be administered as directly and as easily as possible. In a court of law, the court will decide on this within 15 days. Of course, in case of rejection, as in any case, there is an appeal here, where you will have another 15 days to decide at second instance. This only applies to rejection. The register, as I have already said, must be kept electronically and the electronic register ensures that it can be obtained immediately from any court in the country. The president of the OBH is responsible for his IT application, and he is also the one who operates this system. This will give you direct access. Each court is entitled to know these processed data - of course free of charge - and also to handle them. This will enter into force on 1 January 2018 together with the new civil procedure. However, since the legislation is clearly forward-looking, exclusively professional, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-05-05-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[9.20]]
u2017-05-05-7	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Every year, the courts receive more than 200,000 lawsuits and nearly 1 million cases of non-courts, the effective and timely conduct of which will be dealt with in the 1952s. The law does not provide an adequate legal framework, the backlogs of cases continue to accumulate year after year, and cases continue to drag on. This is why, most importantly, the new Pp has become necessary to renew the civil procedure. by creating it. Ladies and Gentlemen, CXXX of 2016 on the new civil order adopted by this House on 22 November 2016 and which will enter into force on 1 January 2018. By way of derogation from the old Pp., it already provides for a national and public register of general authorisations. The old Pp. 73. According to the provisions of Section 2 of the General Powers of Procedure, only the court in which the register is held shall replace the specific power of attorney for each case. At the same time, the national register of general authorisations for public electronic and direct access by the determining courts can be used more effectively to provide immediate and credible evidence of the existence and extent of the right of representation based on a general mandate in court proceedings and non-court proceedings. In principle, the scope of the bill covers judicial proceedings in which the Civil Procedure Act or the Administrative Rules Act applies or in which the provisions of these laws apply. However, it should be stressed that the scope of the law does not cover criminal proceedings or, inter alia, non-court proceedings which do not qualify as non-court proceedings. Thus, for example, the scope of the law does not cover order procedures for payment, which are civil non-court proceedings falling within the competence of the notary, but also covers the enforcement procedure, which is a civil non-court procedure falling within the jurisdiction of the court. The purpose of the operation of the national single court register and the management of the data contained therein is to verify the fact of the right of representation on the basis of a general mandate and the scope of the general mandate. The general authorisation is not established with registration in the register, i.e. it is not constitutive, but with declarative effect, which, in the case of a registered general authorisation, must be presumed to exist until proven otherwise and, in the case of data deleted from the register, it does not exist. The main rule is that, unless otherwise indicated in the general mandate, it must be presumed, until proven otherwise, that it gives rise to representation in any court proceedings governed by this law, the general authorisation may, however, be limited. The general authorisation and associated data changes shall be registered as a result of the registration procedure. The main rule of the competent court for the conduct of the registration procedure is that the applicant initiating registration is resident in the territory of the country or, in the absence of such a place of residence, or, if the applicant is not a natural person, a competent court in the country of residence. If, under this main rule, the court entitled to register cannot be established for any reason, for example because of the fact that the authorised foreign company is a foreign company, the Metropolitan Tribunal shall be the sole authority of the proceedings under the auxiliary jurisdiction rule. The application for registration will have to be made on a form, the content of which will be specified in a separate implementing regulation. In order to eliminate possible abuses, the applicant may, under the main rule, submit an application for registration or extension of the general authorisation or for modification of its duration. As an exception to the main rule, an agent may submit his application to that effect if he is entitled to a compulsory legal representation under the provisions of the law. The registration procedure shall be a civil non-court procedure. As an underlying legislation on procedural matters not governed by law, Pp. the relevant provisions of the non-court procedure shall apply, mutatis mutandis. The registration court shall decide on the application within 15 days of its receipt to the court. The registration court shall examine whether the form and content of the application and the supporting documents comply with the relevant legal provisions. If the submission complies with the relevant legal provisions in all respects, the registration court shall register the data by order and, if not, reject it by order. An order rejecting the registration order or the application in substance shall be served on both the authorising officer and the agent, and an appeal against the order may be made. If the registration court finds, as a result of the registration procedure, that the registered general authorisation has been terminated for any reason, e.g. it has been revoked or invalid, the general authorisation shall be removed from its register by the court in accordance with the main rule. In one case, there is an exception when the general power of attorney is the Ptk. 6-16. In view of its provisions, it shall expire after five years by virtue of the law. In this case, the IT application for keeping the register shall automatically delete the general authorisation from the register, but the authority and the agent shall also be informed by the registration court of the fact of automatic deletion. The management and operation of the electronic register shall be the responsibility of the President of the National Court Office. In this context, the IT application for keeping and reporting the register is also operated by the President of the OBH. Ladies and Gentlemen, The parliamentary faction of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the T/15358 on the public authentic register of general authorisations for litigation and non-court proceedings. Bill No. 1. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-05-05-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute and more ordinary speeches. Accordingly, I am speaking from the Fidesz Group to Mr Béla Turi-Kovács. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-05-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My fellow Member Vejkey rightly pointed out that, with the change in civil procedure, and consequently, legislation must be followed that can serve the functioning of civil order and its good functioning. However, first of all, let me say a few words about the civil procedure that is still in force. This has served the Hungarian legal order very well, I must say, across the civil order system. It served him well because, on the one hand, he was always able to adapt to changing situations and, on the other hand, - and I would recommend it to the legislators, and I would recommend it to the government - because it was done taking into account great historical traditions that were largely independent of the system. Excellent lawyers were involved, whose opinion, well-founded opinion, was not questionable, at least according to the knowledge and knowledge of the time. However, there is no doubt that the creation of a new civil order has become necessary today. I would like to draw attention to two things regarding the bill that we are about to have before us. One is the possibility of restricting the power of attorney itself. It should be made clear that the restriction, if a party to the client wants a restriction, has to be shown in fact, otherwise they may give rise to disputes. Therefore, I would like to point out that when enforcement instructions and laws appear, they should be given special attention. However, for what I have actually asked for a word, it is another question which is an old-fashioned horse for me, and it is a matter of payment orders. In the field of court non-court proceedings, payment orders are excluded from the scope of the general mandate because they fall within the competence of notaries. But is it right? My very old position is that removing orders for payment from court proceedings was unfortunate. He was not lucky because he had one real reason at the time, and we can safely acknowledge this today: reducing the workload. [[9.30]] Reduce the ability to comply at all, but these are now cases based on electronic procedures, cases that operate on the basis of electronic procedures for which unqualified people who are not qualified by notaries who can handle and deal with these electronic matters. In the case of courts, just as I have said many times in the case of land offices, it is the guarantee of permanent supervision itself that does not appear under such circumstances, which would be fortunate. A very significant part of the order for payment concerns serious interests. It affects interests already at the first step when an order for payment is issued, where I believe the presence of the court at some level is necessary. That's one of my comments. The other thing that I think is very important in this regard is that once there was a serious reason for the burden of work and there was a serious reason for such a change to occur because of the reduction of the workload, today, I think, when this is already a case that can be solved, there is another aspect. Courts need revenue. In order for today's situation within the courts and within court care, the permanent construction of their technical equipment... - for which the government is doing a great deal, we need tools. The order for payment procedure is one of the tools. I must say that this is an instrument which, if it appears in the courts, may be of direct and greater use to the public. Consequently, I recommend to the well-respected government that payment order cases be settled and settled in court sooner or later. Overall, on the basis of what has been said and what is in the bill is an important step. It is a step which, technically and legally, simplifies, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, makes the issue of these general powers more secure, and I therefore support the bill for my part. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-05-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Gábor Staudt. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-05-11	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, I promise I'll be brief. I would only like to draw attention to one thing, since we are talking about power of attorneys, and I would not like to repeat what Csaba Gyüre said again. This law is eligible, and we're very happy for it. Another question is whether a separate law may have to be adopted or could have been adopted in the past among other provisions, but it doesn't matter in this respect. So this would be such a legal, taxatological debate. It is certain that the general powers of attorney did not have much logic, that it could only be relied upon or dealt with in a given court, and that if someone wanted to represent their client in another court, he would have had to carry this procedure through there, and, ergo, he could obviously stand there with a simple case-by-case mandate. What led me to speak, on the other hand, is a situation that I would like to raise to Mr Secretary of State. In the case of electronic administration, when dealing with a lawyer, all documents must be submitted electronically to the courts, and this is mandatory. It's the only way they can accept that. There was a question that we could not obtain from the OBH a satisfactory answer as to what would happen if someone went to the first trial, or if the client had the last minute power of attorney, carried the written power of attorney on a paper basis, then in the case of the courts there was a rather divided and different law application, so that this paper mandate, which he first gave to the court, could be accepted or not. The president of the OBH informed me of a question that they could accept if he later submitted it in writing, but the problem is that what the president of the OBH refers to is not convincing me. So even though I was given an interpretation, the president of the OBH seems to have a good interpretation of the legislation, which is positive for lawyers and their clients, but the practice shows otherwise in the courts, and I fear that there will be a need for legislative action here. Therefore, in the event that a person first attachs a power of attorney and wishes to act on behalf of his client, he may submit such authorisation on a paper basis. This should be made clear in the laws, not necessarily in this law, but this is a burning problem, and then, of course, you can send all other documents electronically to the court, and this would be a logical system and a clear system for the courts. Here they try, as I have heard, to bridge this problem by, say, giving the power of attorney orally and dicing it into minutes, either in court or in court. Then the question arises, however, how much better to write it in words than to accept it on paper for the first time. So I wanted to say this here because it will be a legislative task to clarify this. There's a lot of chaos in that regard. I also think that, although I am a great supporter of electronic administration, and that must be prepared for the courts, the administration, the administration, but in this case, in the case of the first round of power of attorneys, I think that we would do the right thing if it could be submitted even on a paper basis, and then all other documents electronically. But, of course, I look forward to the opinions and contributions of my fellow Members. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-05-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Congressman Imre Vejkey asked for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2017-05-05-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, My colleague Gábor Staudt raised a problem. He raised the issue of the legal situation when the party to the legal representative lodges the power of attorney in court. What about then? And my fellow Member said that the president of the OBH issued a guideline on this - I do not know about it, but if he issued it, I believe that the president of the OBH was wrong - that in this case this mandate should be accepted. I believe that in this case, there is no way in which the court may be represented. You can't because if you're represented by a lawyer, you're required to use an e-suit. Any document relating to the application of the e-suit may only be submitted to the court by electronic means. That means, ladies and gentlemen, that this is the only way to get the attorney's power of attorney itself to file for trial. I believe that it is the right procedure in this case if the legal representative himself cannot speak up, but he may remain at the court hearing with his client, and there he can give him certain advice, but he himself, as a legal representative, cannot speak because the Pp is not properly. Submitted in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-05-14	Thank you very much. I think you've misunderstood something, Congressman. Gábor Staudt referred to a letter written to him and not to a directive issued, but it is Mr Gábor Staudt's. Here you go.
u2017-05-05-15	Thank you very much. Yes, Mr. President, so it's accurate that it's in a letter written to me. However, I am telling Imre Vejkey the truth in that this is a kind of interpretation of the law, not sent to the courts, but sent to me, but obviously this is a public document. So if someone asks for this, I give it to him, and he floats it in court, then that could be a problem, because, let's say, in court, a paper on which the president of the OBH gives information to a Member of Parliament in official proceedings, if not a source of law, but a kind of interpretation or interpretation of the law. But by the way, I agree that what my fellow Member Vejkey said is the legal situation. The legal situation, so this information I received was written in good intentions, but it went a little beyond the specific wording of the legislation. [[9.40]] So this is absolutely the way I see it, too, that unfortunately, in the first round or in the trial, the paper mandate cannot be accepted, but I do not agree that it is a good thing that it is. So the laws should be amended, which is why I called on the Secretary of State to have this problem run professionally in the Ministry and later even in a salad law. So it's not a matter of race or race, but it's not a specific law that needs to be introduced, but it's, let's say, fully possible in a law of judicial lettuce; it's a subject that could and should be amended. That is all the more so, because what my fellow Member Vejkey said about the legal representative sitting there but not being able to participate, this is not promoting per-efficiency, or it may be the reason why he is going to stay for a next hearing or even for a hearing after that, whether it is the initiation of a substantive hearing or even the decision-making process. Not to mention, where appropriate, as I said, with the oral power of attorney... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I asked you to speak normally, Mr. President, I'm sorry. [[On the president's signal.]] Thank you. I won't be long, I promise. Therefore, in the case of such an oral authorisation, it appears that this can be corrected by an oral authorization, or it may be that... [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] The Secretary of State is not nodding. Then it may even be a question of whether an oral power of attorney can be done in court there. If it can be done, it is problematic because a pre-written document in writing is always easier to handle, an attachment. In the other case, even if it cannot be done, it cannot be eliminated, and then there can be a major breach of the effectiveness of the lawsuit, and this situation must therefore be dealt with. I also have to tell you, and I'm sure the lawyers in this room know that, better than I do, that in many cases, the client has the last minute power over a lawyer, even the day before. But even if a few days before that, even when you're sending the power of attorney into the electronic system, I'm not sure he's gonna make it. And it could be one of those addictive situations we've heard of when the lawyer sent him away, but for some reason he didn't show up to court, and then there's the parties. Everyone's good intentions are given and cannot be called into question, but the trial cannot be conducted in substance. So I really don't want to drag this issue away. I ask the Secretary of State to solve this problem sooner or later. This also represents litigation efficiency and negotiation, speeding up litigation and the interests of customers. I don't think with a written mandate, the whole e-administration, e-court system would fall. I think this would be a forward-looking amendment, and it would also be expected by the profession. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-05-05-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Csaba Gyüre is next to speak again. Here you go.
u2017-05-05-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say a few sentences about what Gábor Staudt suggested. Indeed, he well said and presented the situation that very often customers really get to find a lawyer at the last minute, because it is a matter of trust and very difficult to choose the right lawyer and often end up there at the last minute. In this case, it is indeed problematic to surrender the attorney's power of attorney. With regard to the electronic procedure, it was clear at the time of the introduction what was the purpose of this. Obviously, speed, litigation, simpler litigation, simpler submission of documents, speeding up delivery, are the objectives of the legislation. It is clear that in the context of the problem that Gábor Staudt raised, if we do not solve this problem, this part of it is just not in line with the legislation, because it is slowing down the process, and we have to introduce more with a trial; the first hearing must be postponed without a substantive discussion. It's gonna be a six-month stretch. In this case, it would be absolutely necessary to be acceptable. Indeed, this should be regulated at a legal level in order to ensure that the purpose of the law itself, the purpose of the amendments, the introduction of the procedure in all respects, is in line with the objective. Therefore, I think it would be necessary to amend the law. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-05-05-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. No one has made any further comments and the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-05-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I thank my fellow Members for their supportive attitude to the proposal, but there have also been a few questions, and I would therefore like to say a few words. My fellow Member, Béla Turi-Kovács, mentioned the classification of payment orders from the notary system. In terms of data, we see that about 6 percent is on the judicial path, so this form is a real relief in the functioning of the courts. The revenue side and the interests of the courts cannot be linked to the number of cases, and that is very well, so the courts should not work according to how matters are judged or how many cases they have. This should be financed on a separate arm. History of Pp.: From 1911 pp. its traditions are already living in the Hungarian legal system, of course the new code has built on them. Mr Staudt to my colleague Gábor on the power of attorney: the Pp. According to its rules, this is written, so I would rather argue with the oral power of attorney that this does not exist in such a form, so that a power of attorney should be included in a private document or authentic instrument of complete probative value. Obviously, this will then have to be clarified as to what is going on with the judicial practice. Perhaps it was only part of the explanatory statement that was not clarified by the information given by the President of the OBH on this issue. The general power of attorney and the submission at the time can obviously be interpreted in a case-by-case case if this is taken into account in the present case. The question of whether the issue of general powers of attorney could have been regulated in the Code is not so much a code. It contains technical solutions which, by virtue of the nature of the Code, are covered by Pp. He's not gonna do it. Perhaps I would have answered that in a nutshell, and thank you again for your support. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-05-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 this afternoon. We now have a general debate on the bill on arbitration until closure. Government referral T/15361. is available to all on the IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-05-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to begin the general debate of the bill defining the criteria for arbitration by ensuring that a state which builds a strong and competitive economy must give economic operators the opportunity to settle their disputes in the context of arbitration, that is to say, that the dispute between them can be resolved by the persons they choose in the proceedings conducted under the rules they lay down. The importance of arbitration is also shown by the fact that, at a very early stage, immediately after the founding of the state, there was a need for private justice in Hungary. In today's sense of arbitration, of course, much later, the 19th century. It took place in the 20th century when the expansion of trade relations made it necessary for an increasing number of economic disputes to be decided by judges with special expertise selected by the parties. Article 19 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. As of the second half of the 20th century, organized arbitrations were thus established in Hungary. In addition to the political and economic set-up following the Second World War, arbitration has been pushed back, but with the return of the market economy after the change of regime, the demand for arbitration among economic operators has risen again. With such a history after the change of regime, for more than 20 years, LXXI of 1994 on arbitration was created. Law, the law of arbitration in force. The Vbt. It was based on a model law adopted by the UN Committee on International Trade in 1985. This model law has become a determining document of international arbitration, so the existing Vbt. in line with international regulatory trends. Overall, we can say that the 1994 Vbt. created a legal framework for modern arbitration in Hungary. It can make the domestic investment environment more attractive for foreigners and thus indirectly improve the competitiveness of our country if there is an arbitration panel of sufficient quality at the disposal of the parties in the country. In Hungary, arbitration can be a real alternative to state justice and foreign arbitration for economic operators in the first place if the regulatory environment allows the dispute to be decided by impartial and independent persons in the trust of the parties at a high level faster than the public judicial authorities. [[9.50]] Furthermore, it is not negligible that bringing disputes to arbitration relieves the State's judicial system. The selection of impartial, independent and competent judges and the rapid conduct of arbitration proceedings shall be subject to the provisions of Article T/15361. Bill No.2 seeks to ensure more effective than Vbt., making arbitration more attractive to economic operators by taking into account the 2006 amendments to the Model Law adopted by the UN Committee on International Trade Law, replacing the Vb. puts the organisational framework of permanent arbitration in Hungary on a new basis. The Government has submitted to Parliament a proposal which refers to all commercial matters to be dealt with in Hungary by a permanent arbitration firm with the greatest customer turnover, which has the greatest weight in the domestic arbitration system, the Permanent Arbitration Court in favour of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, to the jurisdiction of all commercial matters to be dealt with by a permanent arbitration tribunal, and lays down the rules of operation of this arbitration in such a way as to ensure the selection of judges with impartial, independent and appropriate expertise in the event that the parties involved in the dispute cannot agree on the person of the arbitration or arbitration. In line with the fact that the Permanent Arbitration Court in Hungary will be entitled to permanent arbitration in commercial matters in addition to the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the proposal also provides for the termination of the Permanent Arbitration Court of Energy and the Permanent Arbitration Court of Finance and Capital. The bill is without prejudice to the powers of the Permanent Arbitration Court of Sport and the Permanent Arbitration of the Chamber of Agriculture. The establishment of the governing body of the Permanent Arbitration Court, which is competent to assess commercial matters on the basis of a proposal, falls within the competence of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, as well as of the organisations which have established permanent arbitrations which have ceased on the basis of the proposal, thus giving the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry the right to appoint the Hungarian Banking Association, the Budapest Stock Exchange and the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. The President of the Permanent Arbitration Court may be delegated by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Hungary, which effectively operates the Permanent Arbitration Court. As regards further details, it should be pointed out that the proposal grants the organisations responsible for setting up the Presidency the right to recall without justification, in order to ensure that the legal operation of the Permanent Arbitration Court can be enforced by those organisations. By setting the terms of appointment, the proposal ensures a high level of performance of the tasks assigned to the Presidency. Among these conditions, it should be pointed out that only a person with considerable experience in the application of the rules on arbitration can be delegated to the Presidency. On the basis of the proposal, the Presidency will have a particularly important role to play in the selection procedure for arbitration in matters falling within the competence of the Permanent Arbitration Court. If the parties cannot agree on the person of the judges or if the judges designated by the parties cannot agree on the President, he should be appointed as the Presidency and the independence of the members of the Presidency should therefore be guaranteed. In order to ensure independence, the proposal precludes the members of the Presidency from acting as an arbitration, expert or legal representative during the term of office of the Presidency in matters falling within the competence of the Permanent Arbitration Court, except, of course, the cases in which the appointment of the arbitration panel was accepted before their term of office as members of the Presidency or in which opinions were given prior to the establishment of their term of office as members of the Presidency. During the arbitration procedure, the proposal gives priority to the arbitration recommendation list. If the parties or the judges designated by them cannot agree on the missing judge, he shall be designated by the Presidency from the arbitration list in the case falling within the competence of the Permanent Arbitration Court. The criteria established by the rules of the proposal - a minimum of ten years of legal internship, a legal examination and a maximum age of 75 years - will, in the hope of the government, ensure that only persons with a high level of judgment can be added to the list. It should be pointed out that, in the absence of an agreement between a judge and a judge, the arbitration list is only intended for the role of the law, including the parties' right to judge, in so far as the draft law does not restrict or only limits the minimum requirements for arbitration. The proposal replaces the Vb. regulatory gaps in its use. It thus provides, inter alia, the opportunity for the arbitration panel to override the arbitration judgment on the basis of the facts not contested in the main proceedings, and on the basis of evidence, if it has not validated the facts or evidence in the main proceedings other than the party's own fault. The bill allows anyone whose legal interest may be affected to intervene in the proceedings. A further major innovation in the proposal is the possibility for persons not party to an arbitration agreement to take action in the arbitration procedure if the claim presented to them or to them can only be settled in a uniform manner with the dispute which is the subject of an arbitration agreement. It should also be pointed out that, in order to establish a more effective procedure, the proposal is in line with the 2006 amendment of the Model Law adopted by the UN Committee on International Trade. in relation to its standards for interim measures, regulate in more detail the interim measure which may be ordered by the arbitration panel and ensure its enforceability. The main elements of the bill are therefore presented in summary: the new foundations for the organisational framework of permanent arbitration in Hungary; the Vbt. to address regulatory gaps in its application; and to adopt the 2006 amendments to the Model Law adopted by the UN Committee on International Trade Law. We hope that the new rules on arbitration will help to make the domestic investment environment more attractive and thus indirectly help to improve Hungary's competitiveness and strengthen its economy. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the bill in agreement with the above provisions and aspirations. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-05-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr István Vitányi. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-05-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In Hungary, commercial arbitration has not been able to achieve such a level of trade arbitration because of the socialist state structure in many Eastern European countries. However, it would be a mistake to think that arbitration in Hungary does not have significant traditions. All of this can be read in Ádám Boóc's PhD report published in 2008. To support his claim, King St. Stephen II. It refers to Article 16 of its declaration, which already mentions the concept of arbitration, and it does not refer to them as ordinary judges, but as mediators and conciliators. The LIV of 1868 is an important legal history. Act 499-501. §2 and 345. In the case of a judge not specifically named in the arbitration agreement, it is stated that the opponent must designate his arbitration, in the absence of which the other party may request the appointment of the arbitration panel by means of the ordinary court. Thus, there is already an explicit view of the rules on the choice of an arbitration party, which prioritises the right of the parties to provide that, if one of the parties does not exercise that right, the ordinary State court will carry out this task instead. It is important to point out that the 1868 LIV on Civil Law Orders. The Act regulates arbitration with a wide range of powers, since, according to the provisions, the parties, with the exception of land-book, trust, marriage, absentee or guardianship, persons under guardianship, could be entrusted to arbitration by virtue of a mutual agreement. In the light of the exceptions, the continuation of the tradition can be seen in action, since, in the case of personal matters falling within Part Seven of the Civil Procedure Act, arbitration will not be possible in the future. Annex II is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. Following World War II, the role of arbitration and international arbitration in Hungarian case law has been narrowed down, subject to changed economic and social circumstances. However, in the 1980s, there was a significant improvement in arbitration. [[10.00]] On the basis of the above, the Commission concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Paragraph 18 of Act No 18 allowed the parties to enter into arbitration proceedings between the members of the company in disputes relating to the company, and a provision of similar content was included in Article XXIV of 1988 on foreign investment in Hungary. In law, too. The 1994 LXXI on arbitration currently in force. Act adopted by the Hungarian Parliament on 8 November 1994 and entered into force on 13 December 1994. Arbitration is the primary alternative to a civil suit. For this to be the case, the T/15361 on arbitration before us can serve as an appropriate basis. Adoption of bill No 1. Dear House, Last year, a record amount of foreign working capital arrived in Hungary. However, in order to increase our competitiveness and to be the most attractive target for investment among the countries in the region, we also need to take action in the area of alternative justice. It is worth reading the study published by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences in 2015, which evaluates the situation of arbitration in Hungary. The advantages of arbitration include neutrality, special expertise, speed, flexibility, confidentiality and enforcement of judgment. I believe that the proposal in question meets the criteria listed above and strengthens them even further compared to the existing legislation. As a criticism of the study quoted, the need for arbitration in international disputes is the strongest, yet paradoxically, Hungarian legislation is particularly uncertain and unpredictable in relation to these matters. This is precisely the uncertainty and unpredictability that the proposed bill seeks to remedy effectively, in my view. Another comment from the MTA study is made in the context of the provisional measures. The current legislation is based on the original text of the UN Model Law. However, the new model law, as amended in 2006, regulates provisional measures in much more detail in a completely new chapter. The reason for the amendment at that time was that the implementation of the interim measures imposed by the arbitration was extremely uncertain in the absence of explicit rules. The main innovation in the proposal, in line with the amendment of the UN model law for this purpose, which was created in 66 and amended in 2006, is therefore the establishment of a regulation for interim measures. The bill also provides for the power to order interim measures for the Arbitration Council, but contrary to its more general approach, the bill sets out in detail the types of measures that may be imposed on this title and the circumstances under which the arbitration Council should consider in order to impose them. In line with the 2006 amendment of the Model Law, the bill also provides for the possibility for the Arbitration Council to give prior notice to the party in order to comply with the application for interim measures, i.e. to require the party not to be notified in advance of its request for interim measures. The arbitration panel may take a preliminary measure if it considers that the notification of an application for interim measures to the party applied for risks that the purpose of the interim measure is impossible. The arbitration panel's preliminary action shall be binding on the parties, so that failure to comply with it may constitute an obligation of compensation, but given that the measure is not liable to defend itself against the application on which it is based before the decision is taken, it shall not be subject to judicial enforcement. The bill also ensures that the interim measure taken in the course of arbitration in Hungary can be enforced by judicial enforcement. Dear House, The criterion of speed is essentially served by the fact that a relatively short period of time should be provided in the arbitration procedure for the submission of facts and evidence which have not been examined in the main proceedings, and therefore the bill provides for the possibility to override the arbitration ruling on the basis of the fact or evidence not taken into account in the proceedings within one year of receipt of the judgment. It is only possible to renew the procedure if the party has not implemented the new fact or evidence in the main proceedings without its own fault. The bill also provides for a procedure following the annulment of the arbitration judgment. In such a case, the parties may decide, on the basis of the rules of the designation procedure, to consider the matter by a new Chamber of Composition, but if they have not lost confidence in the annulment, they may appoint members of the Board of Appeal which issued the annulled judgment. I consider it to be an important innovation that the bill also provides for the possibility of intervention in arbitration proceedings, essentially in order to allow anyone whose legal interest may be affected to benefit from the procedure by means of a request for evidence in order to promote the win of the same party of interest. The bill also allows a person who is not party to an arbitration agreement to participate in the proceedings if the claim presented to him or her can only be settled in a uniform manner with the dispute which is the subject of an arbitration agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, As stated in the presentation, the government intends to put the framework of permanent arbitration in Hungary on a new basis. The bill also aims to make arbitration more attractive for domestic businesses and their foreign partners by authorising an organisation, the Permanent Arbitration Court of Hungary, with the exception of matters falling within the competence of the Permanent Arbitration Court of Sport and the Chamber of Agriculture, to act alongside the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, whose operating rules are more effective in ensuring impartial, independent and professional judgment. Among the organizational rules, it is worth highlighting that the ruling body of the Commercial Arbitration Court is the Presidency, the members of which are delegated by the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry on the basis of the bill, as well as by the organisations which set up and operate permanent arbitrations, such as the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office, Budapest Stock Exchange Ltd. and the Hungarian Banking Association. The Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which operates the Commercial Arbitration Court, delegates the President of the Commercial Arbitration Court, while the vice-president is represented by the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, the Budapest Stock Exchange Zrt. and the members of the Hungarian Banking Association. In order to enable the Presidency to carry out tasks of a legal nature referred to in its competence to a high standard, on the basis of the bill, only a member of the Presidency who has had at least ten years of professional experience as a lawyer, as well as a legal examination, or who, as there are no obstacles to the delegation of foreigners to the Presidency, has passed an appropriate examination according to his domestic law. It is also a requirement for members of the Presidency to have significant experience in the application of the rules on arbitration. In order to ensure the sustainability or enforcement of legal operation, the bill grants the organisations responsible for the composition of the governing body of the arbitration a right to recall without justification. In cases falling within the competence of the Trade Arbitration Court, the arbitration list may have a particular role to play in the selection procedure of the arbitration panel. If the parties or the arbitration panel designated by them cannot agree on the single judge or the presiding judge, he shall be appointed by the Presidency from the list of arbitration recommendations. The regulation should therefore ensure that only persons who are designated with a high level of judgment can be included in the list. In order to ensure that matters currently falling within the competence of the Permanent Arbitration Court of Finance and Capital and the Permanent Arbitration Court of Energy can continue to be dealt with by arbitration with appropriate expertise in the future, the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office's proposals to the Presidency include energy, Budapest Stock Exchange Zrt. and, on the basis of the proposals of the Hungarian Banking Association, a breakdown by the Finance and Capital Markets Section should also be drawn up as part of the arbitration recommendation list. For these sections, the approval of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry is subject to the approval of the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office, Budapest Stock Exchange Ltd. and the agreement of the Hungarian Banking Association. In order to enable the recommendation list to fulfil its purpose and become a real guarantee of the quality of the choice of judge, the bill maximizes the number of persons on the list in 60 persons. Dear House, I would like to highlight the new element in the proposal which provides that, in the absence of agreement between the parties, a single judge or a presiding judge in the event of international arbitration should be appointed a person of a nationality other than that of the parties. It may further increase confidence in the institution in order to ensure the knowledge and researchability of arbitration case-law. The bill makes it compulsory to publish arbitration awards and termination orders, but only in a manner that is beyond the recognition of the parties in order to ensure the confidentiality of the arbitration procedure and only six months after the judgment has been delivered. I hope that we will soon be able to be convinced of the need and success of changes to arbitration. [[10.10]] Overall, the proposal before us fills the gaps in the existing legislation, takes into account the 2006 amendments to the model law adopted by the UN Committee on International Trade Law in 1985 and sets the organisational framework for permanent arbitration in Hungary on a new basis. Adoption of the proposal There may be a system of arbitration in Hungary, which can be a real alternative to litigation, and foreign investors can also increase their confidence in the institution, further improving the competitiveness of our country. The Fidesz faction supports the adoption of the bill, and I ask you to support it. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-05-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr László Teleki. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-05-25	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarian Socialist Party supports any matter that ensures calm and predictable regulation. In this bill, there is a framework that could be supported, because we believe it is important that the changes that have been made in the law are indeed enhanced at some level. I am thinking, first of all, that there are arbitrations that will cease to exist and they will blend into another, but you can also see that the regulation itself does not address what we would otherwise consider to be very important, such as the advantages and disadvantages of this jurisdiction. One of the main drawbacks of the arbitration procedure is that, in particular, for cases with a higher court value, it is more costly to start a civil suit than if the levy is a maximum amount. In the arbitration procedure, there is no legal institution similar to a reduction in costs, so if the applicant is unable to pay the advance fee at the beginning of the proceedings because of its financial situation, he cannot initiate the procedure. It can be said as an advantage and a disadvantage, but the advantage, I think, we can definitely support it. On the other hand, the specific nature of the arbitration procedure is that the judgment is final and there is no appeal against it, because on the one hand, this allows the dispute to be closed quickly, but on the other hand, the very obvious errors of the judgment cannot be remedied. So these issues are certainly not dealt with by this amendment, whereas, as I said, others are. In Hungary, as has already been mentioned by the speakers before me, there is a historical history of this form, the arbitration process, but it is not so well known, and it is not so well known because it mostly affects economic companies. Therefore, when I say that it is predictable and calm, I think, first of all, and the Hungarian Socialist Party is thinking about regulation, that international investors who want to come to Hungary would definitely consider it important for competitiveness and legal certainty that this court should be of full value, as you can see, that it is, because if it is not, then the courts will be able to finish the lawsuit. Therefore, there is a need for arbitration and related institutional systems, as well as continuation, so the Hungarian Socialist Party can partially support this proposal, but it has many points - I have said two things, but I could tell you more - with which we cannot agree. Therefore, given the policy nature of the subject, we will only be able to ensure residence in the law. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-05-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-05-27	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, we find that if we turn to the court in any dispute, the final conclusion of a simpler case is going to last for years, even if court statistics show something else because of the new lawsuits given in each case. Therefore, those who have concluded arbitration in the contract on which the dispute is based prefer to refer their dispute to the domestic arbitration. Although the cost of the proceedings is slightly higher than in the General Court, the cases will be closed substantially sooner and significantly faster on the basis of the one-degree procedure. The fact is that the submission is enormous because of the stress of the general courts. For every year, the courts receive more than 200,000 cases and nearly one million cases of non-courts, for which the current court system is inadequate to carry out in an efficient and timely manner. This also affects the parties, ladies and gentlemen, that, if they have the opportunity, they will try to settle their dispute in an arbitrational manner. In addition, the increase in domestic arbitration tasks is due to the fact that Hungarian companies are increasingly subject to arbitration in their contracts with their foreign partners. On this basis, it has also become necessary to establish a new arbitration law since the establishment of the current arbitration law, i.e. the change in economic and social relations since 1994 and the development of law. Ladies and Gentlemen, The new arbitration law replaces the shortcomings of the old arbitration law, taking into account the 2006 amendments of the UN Committee on International Trade Law, the model law adopted by UNCITRAL in 1985, as well as the organisational framework of the permanent arbitration in Hungary. The main innovation in line with the 2006 UNCITRAL model law is the establishment of a regulation for interim measures. Therefore, the bill also gives the arbitration panel the power to order interim measures, specifying the circumstances under which the arbitration board should consider the case. In line with the 2006 amendment of the UNCITRAL Model Law, the bill also provides for the possibility for the arbitration panel to give prior notice to the party to comply with the application for interim measures, i.e. to require the opponent not to notify the party in advance of the application for interim measures. A preliminary measure may be taken by the arbitration panel if it considers that the notification of an application for action to the party applied for would entail the risk that the purpose of the interim measure would be impossible. The arbitration panel's preliminary action shall be binding on the parties, so that failure to comply with it may constitute an obligation of compensation, but given that the party to the measure cannot defend himself against the application on which it is based before the decision is taken, the subject of judicial enforcement shall clearly not be the subject of judicial enforcement. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill also addresses a number of procedural issues, the regulation of which left the old arbitration law in debt. [[10.20]] It is appropriate to provide for a relatively short period of time in the arbitration proceedings for the submission of facts and evidence which have not been examined in the main proceedings and, therefore, the proposed law provides for the possibility of a review of the arbitration ruling on the basis of the fact or evidence not taken into account in the proceedings within one year of receipt of the judgment. It is only possible to renew the procedure if the party has not implemented the new fact or evidence in the main proceedings without its own fault. The bill also provides for the procedural order following the enforcement of the arbitration judgment. In this case, the parties shall decide, on the basis of the rules of the designation procedure, that a new composition of the Board shall be considered, but if they have not lost confidence in the Council because of the annulment, they may also appoint members of the Board which issued the annulled judgment. The bill also provides for the possibility to intervene in arbitration proceedings, essentially in order to allow anyone who may have a legal interest in the proceedings to benefit from a request for evidence in order to promote the win of a party of the same interest. The bill also allows a person who is not party to an arbitration agreement to participate in the proceedings if the claim presented to him or her can only be settled in a uniform manner with the dispute which is the subject of the arbitration agreement on which it is based. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill gives the right to permanent arbitration in Hungary, with the exception of matters falling within the competence of the Permanent Arbitration Court of Sport and the Permanent Arbitration of the Chamber of Agriculture, to the Permanent Arbitration Court of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, whose operating rules are more effective in ensuring impartial, independent and professional judgment. With this provision, the bill has, at the present time, referred matters falling within the competence of the Permanent Arbitration Court of Energy and the Permanent Arbitration Court of Finance and Capital to the jurisdiction of the Commercial Arbitration Court, while at the same time terminating the arbitrations which were left unqualified. Ladies and Gentlemen, In order to ensure the knowledge and researchability of arbitration case-law, the bill also makes it compulsory to publish arbitration awards, termination orders, and to maintain the confidentiality of arbitration proceedings, only in a manner that is beyond the recognition of the parties, only six months after the judgment has been delivered. The detailed rules concerning the organisation and functioning of the Commercial Arbitration Court are contained in the statutes of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and in the statutes of the Commercial Arbitration Court, and therefore the bill obliges the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry to adapt their content to the rules contained in the bill. The bill also sets a time limit for the new Presidency of the Trade Arbitration Court to adopt arbitration rules and procedural rules in accordance with the rules of the bill. Ladies and Gentlemen, The parliamentary faction of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports T/15361 on arbitration. Bill No. 1. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-05-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Gábor Staudt. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-05-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, There is an important law before us, despite the fact that it does not affect the majority of people, it does not affect the majority of consumers, but we are still faced with a very important proposal for economic life, and I trust that we will be able to witness most of the professional debate here in Parliament, if, unfortunately, so few Members have respected the meeting, but this will at least allow us to deal with the substance of the proposal. It can be said that what lies before us is a forward-looking bill, and, as referred to in the explanatory statement, and the Members who spoke before me said that this is not only a unique law born by the Hungarian legal system, or the amendment or re-codification of the arbitration law that had been passed before, but it is trying to fit into the international environment, and that is also correct, because, in the case of arbitration, the existence of internationally predictable trends and legal institutions is very important. It was said that it was the United Nations Committee on International Trade Law that created, in 1985, the model law that became a cornerstone of arbitration systems. Of course, there were arbitration decisions before, and the arbitration model wasn't born then, but it is important that in a modern world, these model laws are as similar and closer to each other as possible. On this basis, it can be said that when the explanatory statement states that the law is trying to adapt to the 2006 amendment, i.e. to the amendment of UNCITRAL, it is based on the proposal and it also states in itself that it refers to this as a background rule, so I must say that it can be agreed, and these are modern trends, which, thanks to God, also apply in Hungarian law. There are also a few questions, which are mainly a question of detail in relation to them, but it was not entirely clear to me from the point of view of the Hungarian legal system why it was included in the proposal in this form, and since the general justification and the detailed explanation did not contain a satisfactory explanation, I must ask this question and raise the question here before the Parliament, so that it should be said in any case. The Permanent Arbitration Court, which operates alongside the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, will be designated for the most part as a leading ship, as a flagship of the permanent arbitration system in Hungary, and on this basis several currently operating arbitrations will be terminated and integrated. The proposal also seeks to integrate expertise - which has been in place so far - into arbitration alongside the Chamber of Industry through members delegated to the Presidency. But it is not clear to me what the reason for this termination is, since it is actually a choice here, it is the choice of the parties that has made these arbitrations applicable so far. The more interesting is that in sport and agriculture, this remains separate arbitrations and permanent arbitrations. When I asked the question to myself, I could not find an answer, nor could I find in the explanatory statement the reason why it would remain an independent arbitration in these two cases, and in the other cases it would cease to exist. You could say that specialized expertise - that would probably be the most logical answer - but there I didn't see it with complete good intentions, so to speak... 'Cause what's gonna go away? In addition to the Energy Office, arbitrations operating alongside the Stock Exchange and in addition to the Banking Association, these are also quite specific professional areas. Compared to this, I consider sports and agricultural matters, let's say, even more transparent for an average lawyer - and this can be particularly true for sport - as, say, a stock exchange, financial world areas that require expertise. Obviously, there may be a reason for this, but as I said, I could not read that out of the proposal. In any case, the test of pudding is eating, and I trust that some sort of consultation has taken place with these which have now ceased to exist or with the organisations that act on them, and they have at least contributed at some level to making the new regulation so. [[10.30]] If that is so, then, of course, there can be an acceptable explanation for this, but, as I said, since I could not read it from the explanatory statement, only Mr Secretary of State can answer that. Then it came up in the press that maybe these rules could have been integrated into the Pp. and the new Pp. That would have had its perks and disadvantages, I'll admit that. So, obviously, this is another legal-dogmatic, legal-systemic dispute. Obviously, the advantage is that at that time he could emphasise his membership in the Hungarian legal system and the application of the underlying rules. The fact that it is separate, however, stresses, which is also not the last aspect, is that the arbitration system, and when a person turns to arbitration, is a separate legal regime, the only rule of the background law of which is Hungarian law, and the same background law is, of course, the model law of the UN legal committee. So I don't think it's devilish in itself that it's created as a separate rule, but, of course, the arguments against it can be listed in the same way. Then, what is still being said, and this has also been said by my fellow Member, Mr Teleki, that there is no maximization in this proposal, either. It might have been a good idea to put that in there. Although I add that, obviously, if the parties act with due care, they can regulate almost anything when the arbitration clause is made. Although I would add that there may be a situation where, say, we are talking about two undertakings of the same size, and let us say, a Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise may not be in a position to employ or entrust lawyers who are fully aware of arbitration clauses, and may also sign clauses that may later be offensive or detrimental to them. Of course, this concerns the business sector, but I was a bit afraid of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises in this case. But let's just hope they get a really good look at what they sign. It must be stressed, and we cannot argue that consumer contracts are not covered by the arbitration system. Therefore, even in the event that a consumer would be able to sign such a document, this will in practice not be applicable. This is an important aspect for protecting consumers, and I believe that this is absolutely right. Then, which is a point to consider for me, although it may seem to be a small matter that when we talk about the list of arbitration recommendations - the list that will be drawn up by the Chamber and the presidency of the new Permanent Arbitration Court - I do not consider this maximum number of sixty persons to be justified by a hundred percent, from which there are certain cases of arbitration. If the parties agree on the person of other arbitration, then, of course, this is a different situation. But the point is, I don't know why you did this, Mr. Secretary, could you tell me that in these sixty people... why not 70 or why not 50? Or will that be enough to handle the number of cases? Doesn't this create a little in-depth market again, so that a narrow circle can again be reached in order to receive these cases and the part of the cases in which the arbitration panel is appointed from this list? There's an uncertainty in this, but there may be a logical explanation for this, but I couldn't explain it in the explanatory statement, and I must therefore ask. In addition, for judges on this list of recommendations, 10 years of internships are in order and legal examinations are in order, but age is determined for 75 years. I do not know why judges have a difference of practically 10 years compared to the introduction of the general retirement age. So it seems to me that it's good for an arbitration judge who isn't a proper judge, when we say that the volume of cases can easily be higher. I am uncertain about it, and I think that, in the case of ordinary courts, the current system, the age limit for the retirement system, is exaggerated, and this is where a more reasonable definition of age appears. But I would add that the fact that this shows a difference does not seem fair, and here the ordinary judges are the judges of the Hungarian court system who suffer this disadvantage. Then age raises questions from another point of view. When it comes to the proposal of who can be an arbitrationian at all, so we are not talking about adding to the list of arbitration recommendations, then the draft before us proposes a 24-year-old age. Here, however, I do not know how and why this age of 24 is defined, why it is not 23 or what makes it necessary to define it in 24. Once again, the answer may be that the expertise, so that younger arbitrations are not nominated. But here I ask the question, Mr Secretary of State, that in today's modern world, when technology is developing enormously in virtually a few years, or, by the way, we link the overall full capacity to 18 years of age, and, by the way, those who take it strictly, there are states where it is obviously higher, but there is also 21; of course, it can change there. So as long as in America, let's say, you can buy guns at 18, but not alcohol, but that's another interesting question. So I would raise the problem that if, in cases where technical knowledge, some kind of IT or other expertise in the modern world is needed, and this may also appear in commercial matters, say, a performance was good, it was not good, let's say, a software must be delivered, or even a contract for software production and transportation, this may include a broad interpretation of the system of arbitration clauses, this is also described in the proposal, in which case a 16-year-old person may not be 23 years old, but I am now directly exaggerating the ages - has much more professional insight. But let's say we stick to a 20-year-old 21-22-23-year-old who, let's say, has graduated from the university as an IT technician or an engineer, could graduate from a university at the age of 23 and can't be appointed an arbitrationian, while his expertise may have been beating people who, say, have been in the profession for decades, but couldn't keep up with the winds of modern times and the challenges of modern times. So I think this is a bit of a strict restriction, and I have to think that the parties, if they are already left to the parties, can decide when they specifically name the individual whether he or she has expertise or knowledge when he or she is entrusted with this task. So I consider this point of the proposal to be an unjustified tightening up. In the end, I would like to mention one more thing, which is definitely a good rule, which is 57. Paragraph 1 states that if the arbitration judgment is annulled, the procedure before that judgment shall be free of charge. It's a logical thing to do. If the members of the arbitration have not done a good job, then they can no longer have a financial need. That's what I wanted to point out. I hope, Mr Secretary, that we will be able to answer these questions, but otherwise, the proposal is fundamentally good. Perhaps we will wait for these little clarifications and explanations and then we will be able to decide how we are going to do it, but I am pleased that the wind of the new times and the alignment with the 2006 UN Model Law, which also happened more than ten years ago, are happening in Hungarian law. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2017-05-05-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[10.40]]
u2017-05-05-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I thank my fellow Members for their professional contributions and their questions. Although they partially answered each other, and when my fellow Member Staudt went through the possibilities, I think he also answered some of the questions that came up. Mr László Teleki mentioned, which was also answered, that if the ordinary court annuls the judgment or the decision, it will become free of charge, so in this sense it is possible to escape costs. Indeed, there is only a narrower scope for review, but the expansion of this would call into question the speed of the procedures, so the efficiency that ultimately makes the arbitration work. Why the sports and agro-choice courts were left out? Indeed, these are the specific areas that require special expertise and the autonomy of these sectors, as well as the composition of the management, which shows that the organisations of the failing bodies can appoint members to the organisation of the chamber or chamber arbitration administration. Why 60 people? We have laid down a higher professional requirement, which could indeed be 65 and 55. Obviously, in line with the number of cases, this number has been found in line with the experience of recent years by those who contributed to the creation of the law. When comparing 75 years and 65 years, we have to take into account that in the arbitration procedure the workload is not the same for a judge as in a normal court, where they are in a daily treadmill, so the use is higher. At the same time, it also opens up the possibility for judges to, where appropriate, carry out their activities as an arbitration panel, with a lesser burden on them. So I really don't feel such a contradiction in this kind of regulation. How did 24 years get in there? This was the same in the previous regulation, so it was not changed. I think I may have been able to address the main issues. Thank you for your attention and thank you for the activities of my fellow Members. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-05-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 this afternoon. There will be a general debate on the draft law on legal activities until closure. The government referral is T/15371. on the National Assembly's IT network is available to everyone. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-05-05-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is undisputed that the institution of the lawyer has always played a central role in the functioning of the justice system, in particular as a protector in criminal proceedings, is also a requirement arising from our Fundamental Law. Nor can it be ignored that in recent decades, disputes have become significantly more complicated than before. On the applicant's part, substantiated claim enforcement and on the defendant's side, effective defence usually requires legal expertise which makes the party's proceedings indispensable with the assistance of a legal expert. In the light of what has been said so far, the new civil order that will enter into force at the beginning of next year will also make mandatory legal representation of the party in the forensic procedure a key rule for proper enforcement. The role of lawyers in justice is therefore undeniable regardless of age or time. Dear Parliament, It may be a question for law-seekers, for law-abiding citizens as a whole, and therefore also for Members, why a new law on lawyers is needed if the law in force on lawyers is a law that is consistent with the fundamental principles of law, most of which can be used in practice. At the same time, let us not forget that it has been almost two decades since the entry into force of the law in 1998. Due to the social, economic, IT and legislative changes that took place during this time, the law has often been amended, so it is therefore appropriate, among other things, to develop a new code with a uniform approach to the challenges. The government declared the importance of the development of the legal profession in 2014. On the basis of the Government decision on judicial policy, the Ministry of Justice has made it a priority to increase the level of legal training, to protect the profession and to increase the legal identity. The government's judicial policy aims to strengthen public confidence in the wider justice system. In this context, fundamental substantive, procedural and professional rules have been renewed. In recent years, the reform of the Civil Code and the Criminal Code has renewed the two codes of substantive law, and the preparation of our most fundamental procedural laws, civil litigation, administrative litigation and the new law on criminal proceedings has also been completed. The renewal of the legal professions has also begun successfully, and new legislation on the legal and organisational framework of the courts, the prosecutors' office and judicial experts has been adopted. In this context, it has become up-to-date to redefine the legal framework of the standards governing legal counsel in a close context. So do I. Let me draw attention to the fact that, contrary to the provisions governing lawyers, the legislation on legal counsel has not been renewed after the change of regime. This activity is currently governed by Decree-Law No 3 of 1983 on Legal Counseling, which is now obsolete and partially empty. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to talk a little bit more about the changes to legal counsel, given that the proposal before you, as referred to in its title, contains not only rules for lawyers, but also rules for lawyers. In addition to the lawyer, the European Community lawyer, the foreign legal adviser, the chamber counsel or even the employed lawyer, the employed European Community lawyer, the candidate for a lawyer and the lawyer's chamber may also be able to exercise legal activity. The purpose of the proposed regulation is to ensure uniform and adequate guarantees for lawyers. The rules of the proposal therefore largely apply to all persons engaged in legal activities in a uniform manner. Where the provision applies only to the particular category of persons, this is explicitly referred to in the proposal. In any case, it is worth talking a little bit more about legal counsel integration. In this context, it should be stressed that the proposal on the subject, in the context of the renewal of the legislation on the activity of lawyers, intends to regulate only the activities of legal advisers that are directly related to the administration of justice in the future. This includes the provision of legal representation and the countersignation of documents. These tasks can therefore only be carried out in the future by lawyers who become members of the bar. Both the identity of these legal tasks and the need to establish a logical and consistent system of legal professions are in favour of the solution proposed. But both historical traditions and cost-efficiency considerations confirm that legal advisers who want to continue to carry out these activities will be included in the existing bar association system. As a result of chamber integration, the guarantee rules which are the conditions for the activities that they carry out will also apply to bar lawyers who are members of the Chamber. These include the public register, the rules of ethics established by the Chamber, the regulations governing the pursuit of the profession, the supervision of the Chamber and the training and training provided by it. Together, these conditions will guarantee an adequate level of professionalism. At the same time, it should be stressed that the admission of lawyers to the Bar is voluntary in the sense that not all legal advisers are required to become chamber members, but only those who enter the Chamber may be represented by law or a document against them in the future. In the future, the counsel and his employer will have to decide together whether the counsel will perform a task that is only possible with chamber membership. It is worth mentioning that the bill thus also affects the legal advisers of the public sector. However, integration under the proposal will only directly affect those who act before a civil court in cases where legal representation is compulsory. Act I of 2017 on the Administrative Rules adopted by this House at the end of the year allows an official or an employee of the administrative body with a legal examination to act in the event of compulsory legal representation in the administrative proceedings. The new provisions on legal rapporteurs should also be mentioned here. With regard to legal rapporteurs registered in the Chamber, the regulation is based on a sample of candidates for lawyers. It is proposed that legal rapporteurs registered in the Chamber of Laws will be subject to the same mandatory further training rules as candidates for lawyers. [[10.50]] However, in the context of these changes, it cannot be stressed enough that it is a matter of priority that the integration of the relevant staff can take place very smoothly after the entry into force of the law, in the so far proven Bar system. The proposal also facilitates inclusion in the chamber system by imposing a number of transitional provisions. Dear Parliament, Allow me to say a few words about certain provisions of the bill before you, beyond the issue of legal counsel integration. In the beginning of the bill, we can see that it takes stock of the so-called classic lawyer's tasks and lists the activities that may be carried out in the context of the practice of a lawyer. The latter will be extended, among other things, by the possibility of providing insurance advice, joint representation in condominiums or trust management compared to the one in force. The latter was justified by the introduction of a trust agreement introduced by the Civil Code and by the provisions of a separate law on the related trust activity. Under the general conditions for the exercise of the activity of a lawyer, the proposal contains much more detailed provisions on the confidentiality of the lawyer than in force. Attorney-client privilege is of a double nature, not only a duty of attorney, but also a fundamental right of the client to keep his or her secrets. Without confidentiality, there is no public confidence on the part of the client, and a lack of trust may prevent the client from revealing to his lawyer any facts that the lawyer may need for the performance of the order. All lawyers, however, have the right quote from Hodge: "You can't save anyone until you know the truth. " If we read the proposal further, we can see that it regulates the issue of legal liability insurance in more detail than the legislation in force. The reason for this is that the imposition of mandatory liability insurance is of paramount importance for consumer protection and consumer protection. What is new about this is that it is not a regulation, but a proposal itself that determines the minimum amount of compensation and damages to be covered by liability insurance. In this regard, it was rapidly spread in law firms that this would increase the minimum amount per loss event. I can confirm that, on the basis of the proposal, the minimum level of liability insurance will indeed be higher than the current HUF 8 million. This increase is justified from the point of view of consumer protection due to the increased complexity of the lawyer's work, the change in value conditions and the increase in liability. In the current Hungarian legislation, the lower limit of the insurance amount of HUF 8 million is also considered to be very low in international comparison. The increase in compulsory liability insurance is justified, on the one hand, by the intention to increase public confidence and, on the other hand, by the interest of lawyers to establish the amount of liability insurance in a realistic manner, taking into account the value and risk of the transactions it carries out. At the same time, it is also necessary to emphasise among those who contest change that the increase is not made at the time of the entry into force of the law and not at the same time. The proposal provides a longer time to reach the basic amount of HUF 15 million, with the mandatory minimum amount gradually increasing each year. The proposal deals with the limitations of the activity of a lawyer, the provision of incompatible activities and the exercise of functions. These rules are partly repeating the rules in force, partly changing according to the latest internationally accepted standards. At a conceptual level, the proposal does not alter the fact that a lawyer may act on the basis of a mandate of the principal, on the one hand, and on the other hand on the basis of a service contract concluded with the court or the authority or with the legal assistance service for the provision of legal assistance under a separate legal assistance service. There is a separate chapter on the rules of a lawyer's mandate, whereby the proposal sets out only the specialities of a lawyer's mandate to which the Ptk applies. it doesn't give you the right rule. Allow me to say a little bit more in this context about the possibility of setting a so-called success fee for the pro and versus debate. Among the provisions of the bill, the main rule remains that the client and the lawyer are free to agree on the commission fee. The proposal intends to limit this freedom to the extent necessary for both customers and lawyers and in accordance with the proportionality requirement. The proposal therefore does not generally prohibit the possibility of a commission fee for the effectiveness of a lawyer's work, and the proposal only lays down stricter conditions for the enforcement of a success fee before a court. According to this, a fee linked to the effectiveness of a lawyer's activity cannot be levied before the court in so far as its amount exceeds two thirds of the total lawyer's fee. It should be pointed out that, for the purposes of this rule, the total fee for a lawyer does not include the costs to be paid by the sponsor as part of the lawyer's fee, as well as the part of the attorney's commission fee which the lawyer waives without consideration. The non-compliant success fee is therefore not prohibited, so its application cannot lead to disciplinary action; the penalty is only that a success fee exceeding the level specified in the proposal cannot be enforced before a court. I note to those opposed to the ban on the prize, that the award of the prize is generally prohibited in several countries. With regard to the provisions on the secondment of lawyers, in the context of the new bill on criminal proceedings, it is worth mentioning that the provisions on the public defender are amended in so far as it is necessary, after the secondment of the court or the investigating authority, to appoint the acting public defender. The appointment of a public defender - except in the cases set out in the bill on criminal proceedings - will be the main rule of the Chamber of Regional Law. The acting lawyer shall be selected from the list of available lawyers by electronic means, by means of random selection, in a manner laid down in the rules of procedure laid down in the Chamber Rules. The selection shall ensure a proportionate workload for lawyers and take into account the geographical location of the lawyer and the authority to be designated. These new rules will enter into force in line with the entry into force of the new bill on criminal proceedings. Dear Parliament, It is important to mention that, in particular, the proposal lays down specific rules on the natural persons who have already been referred to as lawyers, namely the lawyer, the lawyer employed, the candidate for lawyer, the chamber counsel, the legal adviser, the European Community lawyer, the employed European Community lawyer and the foreign legal adviser. But there's also a chapter on office maintenance. The fifth part of the proposal contains specific rules governing legal entities. In this context, the proposal deals in detail with the law firm and, within the framework of legal cooperation, regulates the association of lawyers and establishes a registered office community and sets out the basic rules for their operation. As a novelty, the proposal identifies the assistant lawyer, who is responsible for assisting the work of the lawyer, the European Community lawyer and the organisations involved in the legal activity. It is also appropriate to say a few words about the disciplinary provisions governed by the law, as the rules of disciplinary proceedings are substantially renewed in several respects. On the one hand, the scope of disciplinary penalties that may be imposed in disciplinary proceedings will be extended, thereby allowing even more differentiated sanctions in view of the gravity and circumstances of each disciplinary offence. On the other hand, the organisational rules on which disciplinary action is based are changing in order to ensure that, in addition to the priority of professionalism and independence, the real need to establish disciplinary responsibility is enforced. What is new is that disciplinary committees are organised at regional and national level, not on the basis of the proposal, and disciplinary councils are also established with a corresponding area of competence. It should be mentioned that the Disciplinary Commissioner will be entitled to carry out ex officio preliminary investigations as elected officials of the regional chamber and may also initiate disciplinary proceedings. The question of liability for the conduct of disciplinary proceedings is also taken into account in a new approach by the proposal to introduce as a new legal institution the right of the President of the Chamber of Territorial Law and the President of the Hungarian Bar Association to give positive instructions, which constitutes a substantive intervention at each stage of the procedure. Allow me also to explain why there is a need for a smaller restructuring of the chamber organisation, the restructuring of the division of tasks between the national chamber and the regional chambers. The current chamber structure based on national chambers and regional chambers is at the disadvantage of existing parallels, because of the low number of lawyers in some counties, the scarcity of resources and, consequently, the uneven level of performance of tasks. At the same time, the advantage of this structure is to ensure that problems are resolved at local level, to facilitate the personal contact of lawyers with the Chamber of Lawyers and thus to avoid the departure of lawyers from the less disadvantaged counties towards regional centres. [[11.00]] Taking these into account, the proposal introduces structural changes which address the difficulties encountered without compromising well-functioning practices. In view of this, the division of tasks between the national chamber and the regional chambers is changed. Thus, only the Hungarian Bar Association will have the power to express its opinion on matters relating to the activities of lawyers, to establish professional rules on the activities of lawyers, to keep a register of lawyers and to ensure the conditions of the related technical and IT background, to accreditation of training places, and to establish the topics of professional training and further training. Disciplinary committees, as I have already mentioned in the area of disciplinary procedural rules, are organised not at territorial, but at regional and national level, and disciplinary councils are created with a corresponding area of competence. But the basic units of the bar structure remain the same as the current territorial chambers. In the area of legal oversight, it is worth mentioning that the proposal reduces the level of state control over the functioning of chambers of lawyers. The proposal states that the subsidiary nature of judicial supervision is generally stated that it can be exercised if the decision or activity under consideration is neither jurisdiction nor authority. The solution proposed provides for the exclusion of the possibility of parallel proceedings, such as the same decision to initiate the procedure before the Ministry and the accused lawyer to challenge it before the court. On the one hand, the autonomy of the Chamber of Law and, on the other hand, the interest in the legal operation of the Chamber, the protection of justice and the public interest, thus ultimately guaranteeing legal certainty, therefore designates the framework within which the Minister of Justice can exercise legal oversight. The proposal re-regulates the subject of judicial supervision, including the scope of matters excluded from the judicial supervision procedure, as well as the means of judicial supervision. Honourable Members, Of course, there is no possibility for me to present in detail all the provisions of the bill of more than 210 paragraphs. Over the past few minutes, I have tried to draw attention to some of the new features of the proposal, without the need for completeness. In conclusion, the aim of the new legislation is, therefore, to put an end to the legislative renewal of legal professions in this area by means of uniform legislation on lawyer activity. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. It is clear that the adoption of a new law should not prevent the modification of certain other relevant legislation. Allow me to draw your attention to the need to amend a number of other laws and a number of lower-level legislation on account of the new Law on Lawyers. These changes will, of course, take place in the autumn, until the entry into force of the bill on January 1, 2018. Finally, but not least, let me say that the bill before you is the result of a lengthy preparatory work. In order to produce a draft law based on a professional consensus, the working group preparing the proposal worked on it for more than a year, and it cannot be ignored that the proposal was drawn up with the involvement and agreement of the president of the Hungarian Bar Association. I think that, on the basis of what has been said, it can be concluded that the new bill on lawyering is a carefully prepared piece of legislation involving the profession. I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss and adopt the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-05-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The main speaker's speeches will now take place within a 15-15-minute time frame. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Gulyás Gergely, Vice-President of the Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2017-05-05-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The lawyer is the knight of the law, the fighter of the law against injustice. He gives the floor to his oppressed complaint, protects the weak against any power or ruse of his offensive attack. It protects the citizen against the law, the denial of law, the misdemeanour of officials and judges, omissions, indifference, error and thousands of forms of state injustice. Let's imagine society today without a lawyer. Restored by abolishing the current instrument of the search for rights, the status of viewers, partly of authoritarianism and partly of fist rights. The quote is from the book by László Kun:. The History of Hungarian Lawyers, published in Budapest in 1895. Before we accuse the author of excessive Patros, we should go back to the roots. The Roman lawyers, the patrons, were obliged to protect their patrons for free before the law. Legal protection was a favor service, Cicero calls it an old custom:. In front of an eloquent solo and easy-working man, as is customary in our country, protecting the affairs of many people, not for good, but for free, obvious benefits and discounts. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The ethos of the past lawyer image is nuanced by the decree from the time of the reign of Matthias I, in accordance with Act No 69 of 1486, and I quote: "It is the custom of lawyers to take on the affairs of several persons in search of profit and to act rather carelessly to protect them, and if their judges are kept on trial once or twice, they will not do anything about it. The law has decided that no lawyer should then dare to take on the affairs of more than 14 persons. Article 27 of 1567 already states: to prevent any fraud, lawyers in both the County Court and the ordinary judges should refrain from making vain and empty excuses and take an oath, which is called an oath of extortion. For the first time in our country, the 17th. At the end of the 20th century, they significantly narrowed down the number of people who could procreate. It was I. Lipót who published the first Hungarian law firm policy in 1694. By this time, a layer of legal representation of the parties had already been clearly outlined. The regulation itself mentions the lawyership as a body giving respectable legal advice. Following the settlement, reforms implementing the reform of the judicial organisation were of paramount importance in addition to the laws on constitutional settlement. Of course, the questions of the transformation of the court system were the primary priority, the laws on this matter, but not less important were the creation of the Royal Prosecutors' Offices, the establishment of the modern notary institution, and the new foundation of the lawyer's office. While the first draft published on the latter in 1871 stated that one of the essential legal entities of the judiciary was the lawyer, the ministerial justification of the bill on the law on the law on the statute of lawyers began directly by saying that it was not only indispensable, but it was one of the most important participants, and therefore the new legal organisation would remain incomplete, if the law was not passed, it would not be reorganised. State Secretary Károly Csemegi in the parliamentary debate is justified as follows:. The rule of law is not the only, but one of the most important, organ of justice. Organs and organisms, which cannot be strong, cannot be healthy: if one of their members is missing, or if one of them is incomplete, or if it is corrupted. T/15371, which has now been tabled on lawyering, can serve as a guideline for his words. In today's hearing of the bill and in judging the text of the bill. Regulation (EC) No 1710/2014 on judicial policy The Parliament has already adopted the new legislation laying down the legal and organisational framework of the courts, the prosecutors' office and the judicial experts in accordance with a government decision. Point (e) of that Government decision states that it is necessary to increase the level of legal training, to protect the legal profession and to increase the legal identity. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The bill before us is, in my view, consistent with the fixed objectives, even when it uses the term "lawyer's profession" with a basic meaning and edge, expressing that, in addition to the particularities of the legislation which applies to them, all legal practitioners are subject to the same professional order. The proposal therefore uses the term "lawyer's profession" symbolically, as the detailed explanation states. The bill sets out the range of so-called classic lawyer activities and sets out which activities are considered to be complementary activities. According to the taxing list of the norm text, such a complementary activity is also tax advice, labour advice, trust management and community-based representation activities. The draft also makes it clear that additional activities can be carried out in the context of the practice of a lawyer, as in the case of classic lawyer activity. In this case, however, not only is it necessary for the pursuit of a lawyer's activity, but it must also comply with the requirements of the legislation governing that activity. It is important that, in addition to the classic legal activity, the same client cannot carry out trust management activities, real estate brokerage activities or joint community-based representation activities of the same client. Ladies and gentlemen, The legislation on legal advisers has not been renewed after the change of regime, and is currently governed by Decree-Law No 3 of 1983 on legal counseling, which is now outdated and partially empty. [[11.10]] In the context of the renewal of the legislation on the activity of a lawyer and in the framework of it, the legislator intends to regulate, in the future, only the activities of legal advisers directly related to the administration of justice, i.e. the provision of legal representation and the opposition to documents, which, on the basis of the proposal, may be provided by legal advisers who become chamber members. In view of all this, the bill, as referred to in its title, contains not only rules on lawyers but also rules on lawyering. The aim of the new regulation is to ensure uniform and adequate guarantees for lawyers. The shortcomings create a regulatory constraints that the legislator must resolve in any event in order to ensure the proper functioning of the justice system and the right to a fair trial. In view of the need for regulation, the integration of legal advisers who wish to carry out an activity as a lawyer into an existing chambers of professional order is the most appropriate solution. The admission of legal advisers to the Bar is voluntary in the sense that not all legal advisors are required to become chamber members, but legal representation and legal countersignation will be possible in the future only in the case of chamber membership. I would also like to say briefly about the independence of a lawyer and the conflict of interest. With the adoption of the new parliamentary law, we have put an end to a long-standing debate. We have created clear relations when we have provided for full-time Members, and this has included, among other things, legal activities, in this sense, Members of Parliament are not allowed to engage in legal activities since then. The Chamber has made it clear several times before that the former regulation was not born at the request of the Chamber, but it is clear that it was part of the regulation as a result of the law lobby which was already present in the Parliament in 1990, and perhaps more than later. The detailed justification of the bill before us states that for reasons of guarantee, the practice of a lawyer's profession is carried out independently of the public authorities, which can be interpreted in general as being independent in respect of all legal entities entitled to exercise all legal activities. Lawyer independence is partly personal and partly organisational independence. With regard to conflict of interest, it should be pointed out that this regulation is multi-level. On the one hand, certain activities are already prohibited for lawyers. There are also a number of exceptions to this prohibition in the current law of attorneys, mainly because there is a significant need for lawyers' legal expertise in respect of works that are not considered to be strictly professional. However, the government referral guarantees independence in addition to the definition of this exception, as it introduces new rules on conflicts of interest as the second level of conflict of interest regulation. In this context, the new rules also determine when a lawyer cannot take a specific case. That prohibition shall ensure that a lawyer is able to remain independent and free of interest in his or her activities as a lawyer and in the performance of his or her duties. These new rules for excluding conflicts of interest have not yet been included in the existing law. According to the draft, it is therefore a general feature of the new regulation that it places emphasis on barriers to the taking of specific cases. However, overall, in terms of its results, we can say that regulation is tightening. The main rule remains that the client and the lawyer are free to agree on the commission fee. The proposal intends to limit this freedom to the extent necessary and in accordance with the proportionality requirement for customers and lawyers. Accordingly, in the remuneration of the lawyer, the proposal lays down stricter conditions for the enforceability of the success fee before a court, as the State Secretary mentioned. The proposal restricts the requirement of a success fee, i.e. that the remuneration of a lawyer should be bound by the parties to achieve a result. It is proposed that a fee which is linked to the effectiveness of a lawyer's activity cannot be levied before a court in so far as its amount exceeds two thirds of the total lawyer's fee. For the purposes of this rule, a full lawyer's fee shall not include the costs to be paid by the sponsor as part of the lawyer's fee, as well as the part of the attorney's commission fee which the lawyer has waived without consideration. The non-compliance with the rule is therefore not prohibited, nor can its application be subject to disciplinary action, but cannot be enforced in a court of law. Without the need for completeness, I would like to highlight the introduction of the legal institution of the deputy lawyer from among the innovations. The introduction of the legal institution of the deputy lawyer provides for the possibility of continuous and smooth handling of the client's affairs even in the event of an obstacle to the lawyer. As an obligation, the bill provides that a lawyer who is not a lawyer, a European Community lawyer and a single lawyer must be appointed as a substitute lawyer in the event that he or she is prevented from exercising the activity of a lawyer, who is entitled to act as a full substitute for a substitute lawyer in respect of the activity of a lawyer. For each lawyer's activity, the legislation amends the rules on deposit, including stating that the checking of the deposit is an official matter. A gradual increase in the minimum amount of liability insurance required in relation to the exercise of the activity of a lawyer has also been justified, and the possible limits on the financial liability of the lawyer's practitioner rather than the homogeneous regulation so far are regulated in a differentiated manner in accordance with each of the activities of a lawyer. The rules of disciplinary action are substantially renewed in several respects. In addition, the scope of disciplinary penalties which may be imposed in disciplinary proceedings also allows for differentiated penalties in view of the gravity and circumstances of each disciplinary offence. There is a change in the organisational rules on which disciplinary action is based in order to ensure that, in addition to the priority of professionalism and independence, the real need to establish disciplinary responsibility is enforced. Disciplinary committees are thus organised at regional and national level rather than at territorial level, and disciplinary councils are also established with a corresponding area of competence. As elected officer of the regional chamber, the Disciplinary Commissioner shall be entitled to carry out the ex officio ex ante investigation and may initiate disciplinary proceedings. As a new legal institution, the President of the Regional Chamber and the President of the Hungarian Chamber of Law have the right to give a positive instruction, which constitutes a substantive intervention at each stage of the procedure, in order to put the issue of liability for the conduct of disciplinary proceedings in a new approach. The Law of 1991, returning to our law-historical traditions, abolished the working communities of lawyers. Lawyer activities can only be conducted as chamber members after the entry into force of the law, i.e. since 1991. I am convinced that the last 25 years have proved that the chambers of attorneys, leaving out of current party political battles, perform their duties as a credible public body, standing on the ground of professionalism, and that the Hungarian lawyers can confidently rely on the organization, either as a representative body. The domestic chamber system is a value that we have a duty to preserve. I am here to point out that, in recent days, unfounded accusations have also been made in connection with the activities of chambers of attorneys, with incorrect and untrue information. Unlike false statements and repeated as evidence of total incomprehension, the Bar Association does not endanger the independence of the judiciary, but the impartial functioning of the public body, looking back on a decade of history, is just a guarantee. The public body, which brings together lawyers who play an active role in public life at all ages, has been a fair professional partner to the current government from the change of regime to this day by keeping away from party politics. Therefore, the accusations made against national and regional chambers and their officials are unfounded, unnecessary and harmful. It would be welcome if young people who have already obtained a legal degree in better cases, but who are still due to be qualified, would refrain from doing so in the future. At the same time, the current chamber structure based on the national chamber and the regional chambers of the county as a whole [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The negative impact of its correct construction is that, due to the low number of lawyers in some counties, the scarcity of resources and, consequently, the equivalent level of responsibilities are difficult. The proposal also seeks to solve this problem. Just one more sentence, Mr. President. You may remember, fellow Members, that in October 2015 we adopted the amendment of the Law of Lawyers by a five-party consensus. I would like to express my hope that this consensus is still sustainable and that the law can be adopted by Parliament with the support of all groups. Thank you very much. Sorry about the time out. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-05-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gergely Bárándy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[11.20]]
u2017-05-05-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to begin by expressing my appreciation, because it is always honorable to have someone sweeping around his own house, and my fellow Member Gulyas has done so now. Honestly, that's respectable of you. I believe so, too, and with this I will continue where Mr Secretary of State has finished his exposé, that, indeed, I am aware, and I am aware that he has had a rather long professional consultation with the Chamber of Lawyers at the Ministry of Justice. I also know that what lies before us is the agreement of this body, the public body. Therefore, if you make criticisms, you do so in the most necessary way. After all, as my fellow Member Gergely Gulyás said, I can confirm that although there was an effort for the bar of lawyers, so to speak, to invade him politically, they did not lead to a result for God. Indeed, the five-party proposal that we have put forward and, finally, the Parliament has accepted is an eloquent proof that this effort in relation to the chamber of lawyers has not been agreed by any parliamentary group, no parliamentary party, and we have proposed a solution that has resolved the situation. All the more important is the opinion of the Chamber of Law, because I can add to this that I can say that not only as regards the person of the President, but also as regards the Presidency, the staff of its officials, of course, with certain exchanges, which are sensible in such a process, but still remain personal continuity for many years. This really ensures the kind of independence we can expect from such a public body. If this Chamber Presidency sets out a consensus, then we are also faced with a consensus, a professional position in my view, which is indeed in the interest of the lawyer society. That is why I would remain explicitly at the level of professional praise and criticism, and I think that, when negotiating this law, there are few of these, in fact, you can skip the political line if you like. Perhaps what is most important or one of the most important innovations of this proposal, and I can also point out as a criticism that if I look at it from a point of view that they disagreed with the lawyers I spoke to, but here I can only refer to the fact that if the Chamber can accept this as a compromise, then I will also take it, and this is the integration of lawyers into the bar. This is indeed much luckier than a separate chamber being formed here, but it must be put on the table in a debate that a very significant part of the lawyer society does not agree with this change in order to perhaps mention the most important one. What I would like to highlight as a problem in this proposal, and I would like to ask for the rapporteur's consideration, whether in agreement with the Chamber, although the Chamber of Law may not agree with this, but also consumer protection considerations, I think they would explicitly justify this change. If we already touch the fee for a lawyer and introduce innovations in terms of the success fee, which can be good or bad, I also think, of course, it is interesting and questionable what legal means he has, let's say, in a criminal case, to influence, say, in addition to his professional knowledge, the quality or quantity of the penalty imposed, and obviously, the prizes are usually in this circle, but then I would also suggest, of course, that the prize should be considered whether he should enjoy the right of existence within a lawyer's mandate or not. If so, it's strange for me to maximize to a certain extent. As they say, there is no such thing as a little pregnant or very, but either yes or no. So either there should be a success fee, and then the extent of that does not necessarily have to be limited or there should not be a success fee, so let's rule it out on the basis of certain considerations of principle, then obviously its scale does not need to be addressed. I think what is more important than that, and I would have waited for the law to introduce this, which is the minimum hourly rate. This may be done at a legal level, but it might be better to do so by requiring the bar of lawyers to do so, not only empowers them, but obliges them to determine this and also sets minimum hours per type of case. I'll tell you why. It sounds good that free competition must also take place in the legal society and in the field of attorney's orders. But let's just consider that this is not the same type of life situation as when you go into a store and buy apple juice, because there I might say I'm buying cheap apple juice, I'll try it, and then if I took it home, and I really don't like it, then later I'll say I'd rather have 50 forints more, but I'll buy the better one, because it's good. What does this look like for a law firm? I'm gonna hire a lawyer to represent my case, and after the case has been resolved in some way, say, prison or not, they took my child from me or not, I lost my apartment or not, I'm gonna have to pay huge compensation or not, and then I can't go back and say, oh, well, I'd rather spend more money on the lawyer than do his job in a better capacity. Many have, since unfortunately, ceased to limit the number of lawyers, and there is a huge competition indeed, only and only price competition, and take out legal orders at a price that is impossible to perform fairly for so much. The price competition would remain either way, because a public-conceived star lawyer is obviously not going to ask for the minimum fee for overtime, so there will be cheaper lawyers and more expensive lawyers, but at least we will eliminate the fact that lawyers will accept orders for an hourly fee, an assignment fee that is practically impossible to perform. For so much money, it is impossible to say that you should go to him to speak, study documents, participate in negotiations, make fair submissions, prepare for negotiations, hear witnesses, write a fair appeal, and the rest, because it simply doesn't come out. This is common in criminal matters, as is the case in company matters, and recently in civil matters. Therefore, I think that if we touch on how the lawyer's fee should evolve in terms of the success fee, then it is in our primary interest that we can expect a minimum quality requirement to be set, so that we can either set a minimum hourly rate or set a minimum number of hours per case type. The Bar Association, I think you're in a good position to handle this after consulting your associates. What is still a significant and important change in our view, I would like to mention here three things that life has brought, and it is indeed right that they are included in the law of attorney, one of which is the institution of the deputy lawyer. I would like to say no more about this, because the Secretary of State and my fellow Member have also explained what this is about; and the possibility of creating office communities and introducing an assistant lawyer. We are often confronted with the fact that, as secretaries, someone, let us say, cannot handle tasks in certain official procedures or places, or, for example, in the bar of lawyers, instead of lawyers, even though, in fact, they are contracted to perform such tasks. If we can channel this into a proper line of legislation, then we can see real progress here. If there is some supervision of the Chamber here, at least the obligation to notify is fulfilled, I think it is very right and forward-looking. [[11.30]] It's the same as office communities. Indeed, a lot of law firms are just law firms, and they only come together to employ a common secretary, to operate a common photocopier, and there is no mention here that they would otherwise have any other cooperation in dealing with cases. So the fact that we split up the community and divide it into two cases, the cooperation in substantive lawyering, I think that's right, I think it's good. This has indeed been demonstrated in recent decades that, in many cases, they are formed solely for the purpose of lawyers and not for the purpose of working together as a lawyer. I think that it is also right for legal practitioners to undergo compulsory training. However, I quietly note that I hope that the Chamber will remain smart, wise and moderate in this regard, because if we see a similar method, such as, say, what happens at the OBH, where it takes an irrationally long time for court leaders, for example, to participate in these training courses and forums, this may be a problem. A normal, reasonable training system is good, correct. I think that the lawyers will also welcome this if it does not become a kind of accountability, but it is the transfer of new knowledge, because there is still a need for this in the lawyer's office. I have two comments on the conflict of interest. One is a special regulation for real estate and real estate brokers. Here, there is absolute grounds and principle for the fact that the lawyer who carried on the real estate placement should not be the lawyer who enters into the contract for the property in question. But I think that there will be an unfair competitive disadvantage here, according to the regulations currently planned, for individual lawyers, for whom, by definition, it is only possible that another law firm will conclude the contract with a lawyer representing another law firm, while those working in a law firm - otherwise in a social law firm - will be able to conclude this contract. I, to tell you the truth, do not think it is necessarily fortunate, although it is also true that, in criminal proceedings, lawyers who work in an office are not excluded from the proceedings because of bias or conflict of interest. However, I say that in a real estate contract, the advantage that one of the parties may have, because his real estate agent was the lawyer, will appear in the same way if his partner in the same office enters into this contract. It is an illusion to think that one person will not talk to the other, and that they will respect perfectly the confidentiality obligation which otherwise is not in the law firm, so it is not mandatory: you can tell your associate the lawyer's secret within the office. So I'm feeling a certain kind of lifelessness here. I will see what else fits briefly, because I am sure that I will apply for another speech, because it is a rather large material. Perhaps it is good that there is no double membership as regards the maintenance of branch offices; that is okay, and that is indeed a result. But do we really want to move towards creating the hegemony of the great international law firms, and do we want to go, like in America, to have dozens of lawyers working in an office, and these have a right to exist, the individual lawyer and the small offices, don't they? 'Cause it's driving this way. There will probably also be a lawyer who maintains a branch office in Budapest as a country lawyer, but the large international office will probably build this kind of network nationwide before individual lawyers. And so it's obvious that individual lawyers, if you will, will be at the expense of local individual lawyers. Mr President, since my time is up, I will continue my arguments in another speech. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-05-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-05-39	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Christian democrats consider it important to strengthen public confidence in the wider sense of justice. In this context, fundamental substantive, procedural and professional rules have been renewed in recent years. New laws governing the legal and organisational framework of the courts, the prosecution and judicial experts have been adopted in the area of re-regulation in relation to professional law and are currently defined in the legal framework for the pursuit of the profession of lawyer. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill sets out the scope of the activities of the lawyer and may carry out additional activities in the context of the practice of the lawyer. In the context of the exercise of the activity of a lawyer, activities may be carried out on a complementary basis by the lawyer in that capacity, but in addition to the legislation provided for in the proposal, may be carried out by the lawyer as specified in the legislation governing that activity. The proposal deals with the limitations of the activity of a lawyer, the provision of incompatible activities and the exercise of functions. With regard to conflict of interest, it should be pointed out that the regulation of conflicts of interest in the proposal is multi-level. On the one hand, certain activities are already prohibited for lawyers. The existing law on lawyers and the proposal also make a number of exceptions to this prohibition, mainly because there is a significant need for lawyers' legal expertise in the field of work that is not considered to be strictly a lawyer's activity. That's legal education, professionalism, arbitration, but I could tell you more. However, the proposal guarantees independence while defining this exception, as it introduces new rules on conflict of interest as the second level of conflict of interest regulation. In this context, the new rules also determine when a lawyer cannot take a specific case, but the prohibition ensures that a lawyer can remain independent in his or her activities as a lawyer, in the performance of a lawyer's order, without any interest. These new rules for excluding conflicts of interest are not included in the existing law. According to the draft, it is therefore a general feature of the new regulation that it places emphasis on barriers to the taking of specific cases. In terms of results, the rules are therefore strict. At a conceptual level, the proposal does not alter the fact that a lawyer acts on behalf of the principal and may act on the basis of a service contract concluded with the court or the authority or the legal assistance service for the provision of legal assistance under a separate legal assistance service. Among the provisions of the proposal, the fact that the client and the lawyer are free to agree on the fee for the order remains the main rule. The proposal intends to limit this freedom to the extent necessary for both customers and lawyers and in accordance with the requirements of proportionality. Accordingly, the proposal lays down stricter conditions for the remuneration of a lawyer with regard to the enforceability of the success fee before a court. For each legal activity, the proposal amends the rules on deposit. In this context, it states, inter alia, that the verification of the deposit is an official matter. A gradual increase in the minimum amount of liability insurance required for the exercise of the activity of a lawyer has also been justified, and instead of homogeneous regulation at the time, the potential limits on the financial liability of the lawyer's practitioner have been differentiated in a manner adapted to each of the activities of a lawyer. The provisions on the secondment of lawyers have been adapted for dogmatic clarification. [[11.40]] In the law of the law, the term "public service attorney" was also included in the term "lawyer" and, at the same time, LXXX of 2003 on legal assistance was not the law of the lawyer, but the law of the law of 2003. In order to facilitate the application of the law, the provisions of the Law on Legal Aid no longer apply to lawyers acting as legal aid. In view of the fact that, on the basis of the new bill on criminal proceedings, the secondment of bodies acting in criminal matters is no longer specifically indicated by the acting public defender, rules on the designation of such bodies are also necessary. In the cases set out in the bill on criminal proceedings, the bodies carrying out criminal proceedings themselves shall do so in accordance with the rules laid down therein, while, as a general rule, the appointment of the acting public defender shall be the responsibility of the Chamber of Territorial Lawyers. In the dual system of secondment to replace the former one-stage secondment, the additional tasks of the Chamber of Laws would be amended and the provisions on secondment for the appointment will be added, of which the provisions on the appointment of a public defender will enter into force in line with the entry into force of the new bill on criminal proceedings. Within the framework of legal cooperation, the proposal regulates the association of lawyers and establishes a registered office community and lays down basic rules for their operation. As a novelty, the proposal identifies the assistant lawyer, who is responsible for assisting the work of the lawyer, the European Community lawyer and the organisations involved in the legal activity. The proposal also sets out the representation rights of the assistant and the conditions under which the assistant may carry on his activities with regard to the assistant lawyer. The proposal also amends the rules on the law firm. The rules of disciplinary action are substantially amended in several respects. On the one hand, the scope of disciplinary penalties that may be imposed in disciplinary proceedings will be extended, thereby allowing for differentiated penalties in view of the gravity and circumstances of disciplinary offences. There are also changes to the organisational rules on which disciplinary action is based in order to ensure that, in addition to the priority of professionalism and independence, the real need to establish disciplinary responsibility is enforced. Disciplinary committees are therefore organised at regional and national level, not on the basis of the proposal, and disciplinary councils are also established with a corresponding area of competence. The bill also introduces structural changes that change the division of tasks between the national chamber and the regional chambers, but the structural units of the chamber of lawyers remain the same as at present the territorial chambers. The proposal reduces the level of public control over the operation of chambers of lawyers. The proposal states that the subsidiary nature of judicial supervision is generally stated that it can be exercised if the decision or activity under consideration is neither jurisdiction nor authority. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the context of the renewal of the legislation on the activity of lawyers, the bill also aims to regulate the activities of legal advisers which are directly related to the administration of justice, i.e. to the provision of legal representation and to the countersignation of documents, which in future can only be provided by legal advisers who become members of the chamber of lawyers. On this basis, the proposal, as referred to in its title, contains not rules on lawyers, but rules on the activity of lawyers. The aim of the new regulation is to ensure uniform and adequate guarantees for lawyers. On the one hand, the integration of legal advisory and legal rapporteur activities in the chambers of lawyers was made necessary by the fact that, from 1 January 2018, the new civil procedure will make compulsory legal representation general in the basic model of the forensic procedure. On the other hand, in order to strengthen public confidence in the judiciary, rules on mandatory legal representation should guarantee uniform professional supervision and continuous further training. Thirdly, the fact that the lawyers do not comply with the conditions currently laid down in the case of legal advisers. Fourthly, the fact that the register of legal advisers is currently not public-credited; the information contained in it does not contain fresh and up-to-date data; and the legal rapporteurs do not have a register. Today, these shortcomings have created a regulatory constraints that the legislator had to deal with in order to ensure the proper functioning of the justice system and the right to a fair trial. In view of the need for regulation described, the integration of lawyers wishing to carry out an activity as a lawyer into an existing chambers of professional order is considered appropriate. The admission of legal advisers to the Bar is voluntary, in the sense that not all legal advisers are required to become chamber members, but they are able to provide legal representation and legal countersignation in the future only with chamber membership. The proposal also integrates those persons who pursue a lawyer's activity on the basis of an employment relationship, a broad public service relationship or a voluntary relationship with a public interest activity with the legal counsel of the Chamber in the future. The legislation also covers legal rapporteurs working under the direction and control of chamber lawyers as principals who carry out their practice in order to obtain a legal examination under the registration of a bar of lawyers. At the same time as the introduction of the Bar Counciling institution, the current TVR for legal advisers is in force. will be repealed. Ladies and Gentlemen, To date, the detailed rules for the legal advisory activities are set out in Article 3 of the 1983 Act. He's determined it. Under this legislation, legal advisers may have performed their activities on the basis of an employment relationship, a contract of employment or a member's relationship. Legal advisory activities are characterised by a high degree of specialisation, their role in the public administration and the banking sector. In some professions, special law provides for the application of qualified lawyers, such as compulsory conditions for winding-up organisations to exercise their activities, so that at least one qualified lawyer in employment is certified as an expert, and there is no reason why they should not independently carry out all of their legal representation in the course of their work. Legal advisers have successfully applied their special knowledge in the course of litigation. On the basis of the above, I do not consider it appropriate to restrict procedural law to an employment relationship, nor to allow counsellors to conclude contracts with more independent clients. It is also my particular legal position that lawyers who become members of the Bar must also be entitled to act freely within the framework of the legal representation, without limitation of title and number of clients. Under the current rules, there is a clear distinction between the activities of lawyers and the activities of legal advisers. Counselors have the same skills as lawyers. At present, counsellors are allowed to provide legal representation to more than one principal, and there is therefore no reason to limit their acquired rights to just one employer or one principal. I also consider it important that the provision of the conditions for the exercise of the profession of lawyer can be charged to the employer or to the principal at the choice of the chamber counselor, or that the lawyer has the right to decide to provide the conditions for the exercise of his/her activities at his/her own expense. Ladies and Gentlemen, The parliamentary faction of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports T/15371 on the subject of legal proceedings. Bill No. 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-05-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Gábor Staudt. Here you go, Congressman. [[11.50]]
u2017-05-05-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, We have an important proposal ahead of us, we have to decide on the new law of attorneys, we have to decide together where and in what direction we are going to change the rules that have been in force for almost two decades, and it can also be said that the change of age, the emergence of new challenges, and even the attitude of government circles towards lawyering, and sometimes the confusion are worth rethinking a few relationships. I will try to explain the merits of the proposal, and I will also give you the criticism. As an introduction, I can say so much about the proposal that there has been some debate and controversial views already in the press on the proposal, and otherwise this is true not only about the new proposal, but also about the amendment of the previous law, because we can remember that in March 2014 the Parliament adopted a regulation that seemed logical that the law firm should have published a mandatory report, as other companies would otherwise have to do, and that these formal requirements also have to be met by other companies. The law firm also operates in a way that is virtually comparable to the one in which it is managed, obviously certain legal obligations and rights may differ from that, but, as far as farming is concerned, it would have been justified to extend similar rules. This was accepted by the Parliament, but - what does God give - before this could come into force, it was unexpectedly abolished by the Parliament in June 2015 and we still have no idea what this was due to or who tabled this amendment, because it was published in a salad law, and at the committee meeting, when it had to be decided, neither were the pro-government representatives very much in the picture. We may recall that President Rubovszky was asked whether this was the case or was supported by the Fidesz-KDNP fraction, and he said if I remember correctly that he did not or did not remember it. Well, that must have been because it came in a salad package in front of the committee and the House. Lajos Kósa subsequently defended this amendment and identified the right to attorney-client secrecy as a counterpoint that made it necessary to withdraw this decision, while László Trócsányi talked about transparency about the need to create it, but unfortunately, in this proposal, too, it does not appear that the law firm has to disclose its minimum financial data in the future. And why is that important? Because, as I mentioned, we can see that it is not a question of the customers who are the clients of a law firm; it is not necessary or should have been indicated that information that may fall within the scope of confidentiality; however, it would have been clear that, let us say, the revenue of a law firm increased after the party entered the government. And it is a relevant information, and people would have the right to know, say, at the office of a Member of Parliament or even a minister - and although he may not be able to do business in that office, he may remain a member, and in the same way, if he doesn't take dividends, but he can take billions of dividends out of the office before retirement - how much revenue has increased after, say, a pro-government or a government engagement. So we have to think that this amendment is not for attorney-client privilege here, but rather for government parliamentary representatives, for law firms belonging to the moonyard, or for law firm members in government, either at the highest level or in a ministerial position, which I understand is that few of the pro-government factions have taken their names, but it would have been good to deal with this situation in this law as well. Gergely Gulyás is no longer here, but when he said that the law of attorneys had been caught in a crossfire, or that the chamber had been forced to suffer involuntarily attacks, he did not explain, but I suppose he meant Fidelitas, because in recent days we could hear and open the press, open the online and printed surfaces, we could see that the chambers of lawyers were involved in the Fidelitas. For example, in the Hungarian Times article, he asks the law firm to be sure that the Helsinki Commission's migrant policy requires the law firm - not even the Chamber; the faculty - that is to say, the individual lawyers operating independently ask whether it should be adapted in the future. This, of course, was rejected by the president of the Bar Association; obviously I would not agree to this fight, but this is a pathetic level, because the leaders of Fidelitas have so unprofessionally formulated it, and I am not saying that their criticism, but that they have tried to extend the migrant struggle here to the bar of lawyers and to the law. There are no good weeks behind the Fidelitas, because Gergely Gulyás condemned what was said here, and before that, six of their members and sympathizers were banned from the National Assembly by László Kövér, because the offices of the Members of the Parliament were vignetted with their slander campaign, so it was not a strong week for them, but it was their job, and they accounted for in-house. What is important, however, is that I think that the independence of the law firm must be preserved and guaranteed at the level of the law. This is not always the case, as I said, regarding the transparency of law firms, but let's see what it is, what it is, because the law obviously has positive points, which are also positive points, obviously my pro-government colleagues and Iván Vitányi. [[Dr. István Vitányi intervenes.]] they'll listen to it with more love, but I'm going to give you the criticism. So what I can support is the integration of counsellors and the integration of counseling activities into legal activities in a similar circle. This is a regulation, in my view, in line with the technical aspects of guarantee. Obviously, there may be criticisms that Gergely Gulyás he told me how this could be a competitive... [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: Bárándy! Dr. István Vitányi: You're in trouble with names!]] Bárándy, yes, thank you, I said that wrong, Gergely Bárándy told me [[Dr. Imre Vas: It's Friday! You're tired!]] And this may be a legitimate fear, of course, but in this case, when we are talking about a particular employer, this certainly does not mean competition for lawyers. What my fellow Member Vejkey said was that this could be opened to virtually any number of employers, so that the counsel could actually work unlimitedly for more employers, this could create a competitive position, and it could arise if someone worked for so many employers, why not act as a lawyer. I think the proposal in this case is trying to maintain a common gold middle ground, so I think it is good. It is also a forward-looking proposal that, by integrating these counsellors into the Chamber, on this basis, they can act as lawyers after a year of registered counseling, so there is no need to require that a lawyer be employed only after a candidate for a lawyer. This is also true of legal rapporteurs who work under chamber counsels and in such a way are able to obtain appropriate expertise. By the way, this will also be reflected in the proposal on what is appropriate to a lawyer's case-law. The work of lawyers, chamber lawyers and legal lecturers in their qualifications or positions is a clear step forward, as well as of the judiciary and prosecutors, as judges and prosecutors had to spend one year as candidates for lawyers at the moment. There may be a question as to why not the court secretary, because he who is a court secretary is practically a legal expert... - or if someone spends a year in this circle, he will gain as much experience, and more, so he will gain at least as much experience as a legal lecturer, and that may even be true for the assistant prosecutors. [[12.00]] They were left out of the list. If we are to be fair, this should also be incorporated, but, of course, compared to the current rules that have been included in the proposal, it is also a step forward. With regard to the branch office that my colleague Bárándy told me, this may arise as a fear. Of course, the other half is also true, that if someone, let's say, wants to maintain a suboffice in Budapest, then they do not have to sign up to the Chamber, so this may be an opportunity for rural, non-multinational, but also successful offices to attend Budapest. [[Dr. Gergely Bá. A little less likely.]] Yes, it may be less likely, but it's obviously a thought-provoking regulation. So I wouldn't blow this off from the front. However, what is relevant and has also been caught up in the press is the amendment of conflict of interest rules. Here, what is most interesting, and it is not yet possible to know who asked to be included, is the executive officials of the companies, more precisely where a body is managing it, so we are talking about larger companies, in which case not only being a lawyer but also a leader of the management body in the future. So a Nyrt. can have the chairman of the board as a lawyer. I think this is a strong step, however, while regulation in other areas has been significantly tightened. You could hear it here, the press was talking about whether Antal Rogán and his circle of friends might have an interest in this. This was denied by the Cabinet of Ministers. We don't know what's going on. I asked this, by the way, here in Parliament, oral questions in a genre. She was practically unable to answer why it was important for this to be included, who ordered this. For the time being, there seems to be no owner of this point (n). [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] However, what may be a legitimate point, and here I think that we are opening up regulation too wide for companies, we are too forgiving, in the other case, but too strict for municipal representatives. It is possible to engage in an interpretation struggle as to whether the activity of representatives of the municipality is an activity for consideration with an obligation to work. It's a limit whether it is or not; some say yes, some say no. But in order to avoid disputes, I think it should be included that there is no conflict of interest between the legal status of local government representatives and the membership of the external committee and even the role of mayor in the social mandate. This is important because here we are talking about a local government representative, mostly smaller settlements, but not a full-time job in a larger settlement, and it is very important that people with the right skills, or lawyers, are able to take on this, so that they can hold a position in the public service of a local government representative, so that the municipality is also enriched with expertise. The other half is that it can provide virtually a more effective electoral representation. This is too strict here, or if there are debates about whether or not it can be now, then we should definitely prevent this from happening when it comes to regulation. What I'm saying is that, as it has been so far, it can be, and practically even in the local municipal representative bodies, who perform representative or external committee duties, be lawyers at the same time, be their full-time job. One last thing quickly: the issue of the prize is also a divisive issue. This may be the reason for abuse, but preventing the complete abolition or enforcement of a court question raises questions such as, say, a fair wage of success does not help poor people, that the lawyer says that if we win, the client will accept the payment of a success fee, if not, and, where appropriate, a minimum or barely pay. This may have been a help to the people in need. Obviously, this must remain at a level that is not quasi-exploiting, but this proposal, this two-thirds rule, does not allow that, Mr Secretary of State. So I would also like to introduce this approach. Mr. President, I'm running out of time, and there's more to talk about. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2017-05-05-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. I salute my fellow Members. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. An independent Member has not applied for a speech and has not applied for two minutes. Other speeches will follow. First, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik.
u2017-05-05-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, we have a very important bill ahead of us, and there are not enough of us here in this House to discuss it and to comment on it. A few thoughts first about the bar or the bar. Some say that there are many lawyers in Hungary, some say that there are few, or there are too many, many opinions about this in Budapest, but let's see the numbers! There are 13 thousand lawyers in Hungary. Not all of them are active, so there are pause lawyers. [[Dr. Vas Imre: Here are some!]] For example, yes, they are here in the room, thank you, because we can only take a break, so we are also a pause lawyer, and 10 600 are the number of people who actually work. This is calculated by adding 132 lawyers to 100,000 residents in Hungary. Compared to European standards: this is a little less than average, because there are 147 there, and in the year 132 in Hungary, there are also pause lawyers. So, on average, 147, but it should also be taken into account that in a number of European countries who have contributed to or compared us to the statistics, there is not everywhere a lawyer's activity covering the legal activities that we have here, but much more, and therefore a larger number of them. Another interesting thing about this is that in Budapest there are practically half the lawyers, so it works here. It also shows that the country's economy is concentrated on the capital, and as a result, the judiciary also focuses on the capital, since half the lawyers are here. Speaking of which, it is also important to note that if we know the percentage of women in the National Assembly who are less than men, let's look at this in lawyers, where 44 percent of lawyers are currently growing. We can also see, if we look back a little bit at the past, that it was not so feminine - although I put it in quotes because it is not yet feminine - there used to be a much lower proportion of women, so it is gradually improving. And how much improvement is made, there is another figure, which shows that women now take the majority in the number of candidates for lawyers, and 61 percent of candidates for lawyers are women, which suggests that this branch of justice will eventually become more and more feminine, just as we can talk about in court. One more: In 1998, only 39 percent of the candidates for lawyers were women. So what we're seeing here is that in less than 20 years, it's 50 percent. The proportion of women in this profession has improved compared to that of men, so it is becoming increasingly female. What else is typical? The characteristic is that lawyers are individual lawyers in Hungary, this is their most typical form of operation, and if they are also in a law firm, the law firm is usually the one-man law firm. It has also been examined by candidates for lawyers, and this is an important aspect of why a candidate for a lawyer today chooses to become a lawyer in Hungary, and why he starts running for a lawyer. I'm telling you this because it doesn't seem to have anything to do with the law, but I'll tell you why I think it has something to do with it. What are the priorities? A statistic was made about this, and they asked candidates for lawyers. First of all, real mentoring was a candidate for a lawyer who came to be a lawyer in order to get a real mentoring, so that they could really learn from professionals who, several years ago, decades ago, were respected lawyers who had a very good practice, so that they could learn from them. So this is one of the most important aspects of real mentoring. [[12.10]] The second most important aspect was the modern, well-equipped office environment, and the third most important is that they have as much self-employment as possible, so that they have as much autonomy as possible. That's why I said these aspects, and that's why I'm listing them, because what I've seen is that I haven't found the appropriate passages for them in this new bill, that you've mentioned that, to help the future generation of lawyers to be born, that they're increasingly trying to get lawyers on this path. As with all professions, it is very important that the best and most talented of the university graduates get into a profession, obviously they will be the ones who will be able to pull that cart best. So this is also an important question, which we do not get much answers to in this law. Obviously, how modern a law firm should be is not even a matter of this law, so I wouldn't have tried to hold it here. One thing is certain that in this case, there was the right professional consultation from the Ministry, since those involved were mostly the lawyers, but let's also look at the aspects that led the Chamber, and what aspects it gave the Ministry. So the Ministry of Justice sent in time the most important aspects that it wanted to enforce in this bill, and they were discussed at the meeting of the Hungarian Chamber of Law on 14 November 2016. What position did you take on this? On the one hand, whether this new legislation is justified or not, it also took a position on this issue, since it is the 1998 law that is currently in place, not yet twenty years old, but it was clear that there was a change in social and economic relations during these 19 years that justified the creation of a new law. The Chamber Presidency has also dealt with the fact that what the bill offers for legal advisers is a novel solution, namely that legal advisers can be included - they are not obliged to be included, they can only be included - in the scope of the law, and in fact they will be members of the Bar Association. Here, the Bar Association stressed that it did not oppose this at all, but states that this was not their idea, that they did not invent the possibility for the lawyers to be part of this system, but they did not oppose it in any way, or that they proposed to the Ministry that, if the lawyers become members of the bar, the law should also provide for their rights within the bar. A proposal was also made in this regard. I think that the Ministry of Justice has also taken the appropriate steps in this regard, since counsellors will be given the appropriate advocacy body within the Chamber. The Chamber also took a position on the extension of the role of a lawyer and agreed that it was appropriate to extend tasks on certain issues, such as trust trustees, joint representatives of the board of directors and insurance consultants. I would like to note here that even when this draft was completed and sent out to the Chamber of Law, what my colleague Gábor Staudt has already said has not been included, and that is the part of the conflict of interest which states that I am thinking of point n, if I remember correctly, point (n) states that even the chairman of the top management body of the company may be a lawyer. In this case, for example, the Chairman of the Board of Directors of an open public limited company may be a lawyer. What a contradiction it is that this is included, whereas a partnership manager can no longer be a lawyer. So this contradiction, in which we are involved, is simply incomprehensible, since a company may have a leading official, not a deposit company, but it is usually more economically powerful than a public limited company. The responsibility here is not the same. [[Dr. István Vitányi intervenes.]] I am thinking, if I remember correctly, point (n) states that even the chairman of the top management body of the company may be a lawyer. In this case, for example, the Chairman of the Board of Directors of an open public limited company may be a lawyer. What a contradiction it is that this is included, whereas a partnership manager can no longer be a lawyer. So this contradiction, in which we are involved, is simply incomprehensible, since a company may have a leading official, not a deposit company, but it is usually more economically powerful than a public limited company. The responsibility here is not the same. (Dr. István Vitányi intervenes.) He's a lot more responsible, I think, than that. President of the Board of Directors and his duty to work, I think, is much more. But anyway, it's a debate in which I don't think we're going to make any progress with each other. In any case, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary does not accept this expansion of tasks, just as the Chamber of Law did not have such a position that it would agree. Here is what my fellow Member Gábor Staudt clearly referred to in his speech, and that is the issue of personalised legislation, which, unfortunately, we have been very, very accustomed to by Fidesz-KDNP since 2010, when certain paragraphs are defined for the benefit of someone, a specific person, and we are also overwriting previous principles of law in order to meet either one person or two or three people, or an interest group, or an economic assembly, or the person behind them. This is also what we think is being discovered as a result of this, since there is no technical justification for this being included in the legislation. The Chamber also agreed with the system of continuous compulsory training. This is also a very important thing that has been included in the legislation, which the Jobbik Movement for Hungary agrees with for its part. However, my fellow Member Bárándy has already raised the risk that, where appropriate, this may go in a wrong direction, so to speak, that the number of these will be excessive, drawing lawyers away from work, referring here to the court, where this can happen at times. I consider this to be very important, since this is also important in the sense that the new bill is 149. § (1) states when the chamber may terminate the legal relationship of a lawyer. He says he can terminate it if he does not attend these compulsory training courses. So far, it would be okay, my problem is that if the law imposed such a severe sanction - this is an extremely strict penalty, that a lawyer can be excluded from the bar of attorneys, if he does not participate properly or participate in them - I think it would be the national's duty to lay down the legislative framework for such education at some level in this legislation. So, by the way, this was in the chamber material, and he suggested that at least some credit points should be required, that they should be obtained, but they are all missing from the bill, and I think if he has such a strict sanction that he can be excluded from the bar, then there should be legal guarantees, and they should have been included in this law book. The system of liability insurance is a subject in which the Chamber of Law did not fully agree with the Ministry's position, since it was explained that the system of liability insurance so far has been sufficient, so there is no need to greatly increase the amount of insurance; although it agreed that this is indeed seen to be increased in the long term or in the medium term. Here, a multi-stage and a slow continuous increase was proposed by the Bar Association. We don't see this in the law. In addition, the Chamber suggested that if there will be a high amount of liability insurance and if the insurance company pays a high amount, it should be clearly stated in the law that the liability of the lawyer is limited only to the amount of liability insurance and possibly to the amount of property entered into the office. So, as in a limited liability company, the liability of members should be reflected in the law that the lawyer will not have the underlying responsibility in these cases. I couldn't find such a solution. [[12.20]] paragraph 1 states when the Chamber may terminate the legal relationship of a lawyer. He says he can terminate it if he does not attend these compulsory training courses. So far, it would be okay, my problem is that if the law imposed such a severe sanction - this is an extremely strict penalty, that a lawyer can be excluded from the bar of attorneys, if he does not participate properly or participate in them - I think it would be the national's duty to lay down the legislative framework for such education at some level in this legislation. So, by the way, this was in the chamber material, and he suggested that at least some credit points should be required, that they should be obtained, but they are all missing from the bill, and I think if he has such a strict sanction that he can be excluded from the bar, then there should be legal guarantees, and they should have been included in this law book. The system of liability insurance is a subject in which the Chamber of Law did not fully agree with the Ministry's position, since it was explained that the system of liability insurance so far has been sufficient, so there is no need to greatly increase the amount of insurance; although it agreed that this is indeed seen to be increased in the long term or in the medium term. Here, a multi-stage and a slow continuous increase was proposed by the Bar Association. We don't see this in the law. In addition, the Chamber suggested that if there will be a high amount of liability insurance and if the insurance company pays a high amount, it should be clearly stated in the law that the liability of the lawyer is limited only to the amount of liability insurance and possibly to the amount of property entered into the office. So, as in a limited liability company, the liability of members should be reflected in the law that the lawyer will not have the underlying responsibility in these cases. I couldn't find such a solution. (12.20) The Chamber did not agree on everything - I would like to draw this attention - on matters relating to disciplinary proceedings. It was a big debate within the prosecutor's office whether it would be good to have a restructuring of the law firm's disciplinary system from the county level to the regional level. The majority generally disagreed with this within the Presidency, which is why they suggested leaving the original well-established method to the Ministry. I see that there was no consensus in this, because here the Ministry clearly maintained its own position and did not listen to the Chamber. But it looks like my time is up. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-05-44	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Gyure. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2017-05-05-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to continue with what has been left out of my speech as a keynote speaker in the absence of time, because, as my fellow Member Staudt said, this legislation can hardly be summarised in 15 minutes by faction, even if we really only analyze, criticize or praise the most prominent changes. What I would like to continue with is to have a chain of things that my fellow Member Gyüre has left behind, changes in disciplinary responsibility, changes in disciplinary councils, committees. Unlike in this regard, in the position of the Chamber or my fellow Member, I say that we should try this regional version. I can agree with that, because in the capital city of Budapest, where there are 6,000 lawyers, there is less chance that colleagues who are extremely well-known to each other, who may even be friendly, will be forced to participate in this procedure as a member of the disciplinary board and as a lawyer subject to the other procedure. That's not good in any way. For the same reason, I am not a fan, among other things, of very small settlements, or, rather, of the establishment and maintenance of courts in smaller settlements, because this cannot sufficiently ensure objectivity. It's not like a doctor's office, where it doesn't matter that the doctor heals his friend, his enemy, or that individual person, and he heals them the same way. There is a need for this to be done impartially and objectively. I think that there is a greater chance of this at regional level. Consider, for example, one or two small counties where few lawyers work, and it is essential that they know each other, have a close relationship over years or decades, which may be positive that they like each other, or may be extremely negative. That is why I think it is worth trying this innovation, this amendment. The regional level is likely to ensure objectivity in an appropriate way. However, I say that the President of the Bar, as regards the opening of proceedings, should have very broad powers, since the President can judge that this is essentially a series of and unfair attacks on a lawyer, which we say is a disgruntled client's move against him is completely unjustified, or, unfortunately, there is an example of this, which another colleague is doing for certain pertactical reasons, or indeed an established procedure where the objective conduct of this procedure is necessary. So let's try this new system, and I'm a fan of it, but I'll say it again, but I'd like to involve the presidents of county law chambers more in the process, for example, as regards the opening of proceedings and the rules on that. I would like to mention it and express my disagreement, as with all such efforts in general, that the rule of legal supervision exercised by the Minister over the Hungarian Bar Association will be renewed, as is the case today, with the expansion of the prior approval of the Minister of Justice, so that, for example, in the case of the key regulations, this will work out. I think that public body autonomy should no longer be restricted. This has worked well so far, and it will probably continue to work well, if every two or three or four decades there is a need for a correction such as that once made as a five-party proposal, so it can be achieved. I'm not usually in favour of strengthening ministerial supervision here. On the other hand, I agree - I can also speak briefly about this - that the proposal also introduces a ban on a candidate for a lawyer as a disciplinary penalty. I think that this is extremely justified, because the candidate for a lawyer can act so widely today, quite rightly, in front of the authorities, to represent client interests, where if he exercises this abusively or seriously carelessly, then there can be a place for him to be banned from this activity by the Bar Association. With regard to conflicts of interest: I do not want to go into it in too much detail, but Mr Gulyás highlighted the conflict of interest of Members of Parliament with the activities of lawyers. Although it does not belong closely to the law, because this is not the law that determines it, but the Act on Parliament, I would nevertheless like to mention that it is not worth mentioning as the Fidesz's old ambition, because we know precisely that it was László Kövér's ambition, and the vast majority of Fidesz did not agree with this proposal at the time. I have spoken to many Fidesz Members who would very much like to reconfigure this, in Hungarian, to eliminate this conflict of interest. By the way, I'm one of them, obviously in other party colors, who would eliminate this conflict of interest. I believe that a Member can decide and must assume so much sobriety or so much self-knowledge of the extent to which he is able to do legal work in addition to his representative's activities. I think that when the Parliament meets every two weeks - because let's face it, the four o'clock on Monday that we call the second week as the parliamentary week is as much as nothing - could also be done as a lawyer, and not just because this is not the last aspect that a Member of Parliament can actually maintain his independence, because he can say that if I have to make a political decision that is unsuitable, I will resign, and there is my law practice or even my medical practice. It's much less catchy, much more independent of such a congressman. But not just because of this, and not just because you might make more money from it, but we personally experienced many of us who were Members who were lawyers at the same time, so that one, let's say, does not break away from reality and practice. We make the right, we make the law, and it is very good to be able to personally experience and see how our laws work. The legal forum was a good forum for this, which, by the way, does not have public powers, and yet, through civil law, administrative law, criminal law, until constitutional law, it was able to monitor how the individual laws worked, and it was able to channel directly into the Parliament, where appropriate, the bridges that could be modified. I didn't have an individual motion during our administration that came from practice, which could get in here because we saw in practice that it was a problem. And I assume that I am not alone in this, but I have had this with my fellow Members with fidesz. So I think that if we are talking about law and conflict of interest, then we should really rethink that, above all, once again, in addition to the current parliamentary burden, which actually means one session a week, and the next week, week B, if you will, at least free time for Parliament to re-enlist certain jobs, and I say not only to its lawyers, but also to a medical or engineering profession. [[12.30]] What is extremely important in the end, and I would like to talk about it, is the reform of the public defender's institution. Finally, thank God this happened. We've been asking for this for a thousand years. We've put in motion many times, lawyers, lawyers. It's unfortunate to be assigned by the authority that is otherwise involved in the case. This usually resulted in a police officer assigning a friend to his former colleague who had retired, and it was almost expected in these cases that the lawyer would not interfere so much. Don't push the investigation too far, don't get too involved in what the authorities are doing; formally perform their role, but not for a moment - respect for the exception. Of course, I don't want to put all my colleagues under the same roof, but I can say from personal experience, you see, Mr. Secretary, you are right back here, and we saw that this is the way it works. They're assigning a buddy, and that's what they expect. And if you don't do that, next time you're gonna get another buddy. Well, that can't be held! Once again, respect for the exception, who has done his job fairly. It's a good thing they're being assigned by law firms. Could've been something else, could've been the Justice Department that's coordinating this. However, one thing I think is that it is one-legged in this regulation, and that this is also done on the basis of electronic random selection. This alone would not be a big problem if a contract were to prevent it. With all due respect, Mr Secretary of State, consider that since there are many lawyers today, they are very happy to undertake secondments. Today, the fight isn't to be ordered, it's to fight among lawyers to get assigned for that hourly fee. If that is the case, and if you like, there is an oversupply on the market, then it would be safe to make it possible for the Bar Association to sign with these lawyers, which will also allow you to verify the work of a lawyer in substance. Of course, it is not that this was a good legal direction in the trial, but, for example, whether or not he kept the trial or just said that I would ask for a fair punishment, this can be verified; either whether he went to the speaker or made motions and so on. So a minimum accountability, an accounting opportunity could be done by the Chamber on an objective basis. You can do this if you sign a contract with these lawyers, and if someone doesn't do it right, the next time, let's say, you don't sign a contract with them for the next 1-2-3-5 years. This could also guarantee the quality of public defender work. So the county board can verify that the contractor is doing his job properly. Once again, this would be a qualitative change to customers, which, if you like, would enhance the character of the lawyer service provider and substantially strengthen confidence in the lawyer service. Once again, after the introduction of the minimum fees, I would like to suggest this as the most serious change in order to contract the Chamber, to check the work on this basis, and, of course, then, when the range of contracting lawyers has been established, it is possible to order the defender on the basis of an electronic random selection. Finally, the case law of the lawyer. Ladies and gentlemen, Here I agree if we define that only the practice of legal practice in the classic legal field is considered to be legal practice; so here, let's say, the lawyer, candidate for lawyer, judge, prosecutor, possibly a court, prosecutor's secretary, author or counsel. But you put the judge of the Constitution in here, and I don't understand why. Of course, with the Constitutional Judge, we can say that he is also doing practical legal work. But if we approach it on this basis, I think that anyone who is not a legal rapporteur in the Ministry of Justice, but who is involved in other legal fields, and I think that there is one, might also raise this question. But if not there, then the minister or secretary of state may have this specific concern, since the Minister of Justice cannot be said not to carry out practical legal work. In the same way, it cannot be said that a Member of Parliament who is a member of the Judicial Committee or of the Legislative Committee does not perform practical legal work or that the Ombudsman can be referred to in the same way. In other words, I say that either put it in a much wider circle, I could be a partner in this, or take out the Constitutional Court, because otherwise it has no place in the list. Finally, there was a meeting in Vas County, then an earlier version of the law. A lot of the comments that were made there, I just told you. Allow me, Mr Secretary, to add that it should be resolved either in the law of the lawyer or elsewhere, so that the working conditions of the lawyer can be improved in the courts. While a judge, a prosecutor, usually has rooms, office premises, a lawyer [[The president's ringing the bell.]] - ten more seconds, Mr. President, thank you - you're hanging out in the hallway, among the others, you can't edit a document, you can't go through something calmly. In other words, we can create conditions at least similar to those of other professional participants in the lawsuit, which are requested by members of the Vas County Bar Association. Please consider this. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-05-05-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik.
u2017-05-05-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I still have a few things left in me about my last speech, which I would like to say. So I didn't have time to pay my lawyer's fee. According to the new law, there is no major change in this, either, that the attorney's fee is the subject of a free agreement. This was agreed by the Bar Association, I think, and we agree, and I think a very large majority of lawyers agree. And the Bar Association also agreed that it would not be possible to conclude a contract with a mere success fee, which is practically a contract like a business contract. Otherwise, the Hungarian position contrasts with the Austrian position not far from us. In order to see what the situation is there, I would like to say that there is absolutely no agreement on the subject of a lawyer's fee. There, there, there is a law governing what kind of legal activity the attorney is entitled to for a commission fee. As in many cases, notary fees are set, a lawyer's fee is also set. If someone looks at that website, looks at that legislation, and has the German knowledge of what kind of activity they are entitled to, then their eyes will get a little distracted, especially if we compare them to Hungarian prices. Indeed, there are very, very serious prices in this, and those who turn to a lawyer in Austria must really think about it. I think, especially if we look at the price list and see that we can already talk about thousands of euros in the editing of a simple document, then we say that, yes, there is certainly a much better free agreement under economic and social conditions in Hungary. Obviously, everyone is trying to find the lawyer they trust, and on the other hand, they can pay the commission fee that the lawyer is asking for. Another cardinal issue that may not have been properly emphasized before is the issue of legal custody. I think that the new legislation is also quite good at grasping the problems in this area, and it is quite detailed about the custody of lawyers. This is what Achilles' heel was for a very long time as a lawyer, especially in the period before the last five years, when problems related to this were often heard. Then it is true, to say that not primarily lawyers and lawyers acting under the rules of law have touched the amount deposited with them, and it has disappeared over time, and it has not been found. It is very important to have strict regulation in this area, a regulation that even signs that the amount should be deposited in the separate deposit account within one day. [[12.40]] Yes, it is very important that the Chamber has the power of control to check this with lawyers, because it will ensure that similar cases, like in the last two decades, will not occur in this regard. And this will also confirm that the trust between the client and the lawyer will be further strengthened, because when we hear such things in a series, that deposits are disappearing, obviously, at the whole social level, trust in lawyers is shared by some lawyers who do not act according to their profession and according to professional rules and legislation, they can certainly destroy the renome of a lawyer's profession. I am also pleased that there was a part in the law that was not included in the original proposal, and it was recommended by the Hungarian Bar Association, and it was included, and this is the description of the role of assistant lawyer and the introduction of this as a new institution in the legislation. I think that this is in everyone's interest, and it is very right that it has been included as a new institution in the new draft, the new proposal. My fellow Member Bárándy said that he talked about how the situation had developed here, why the profession of lawyer and the parliamentary profession had become incompatible. This was the legislative product of the last cycle. I would only correct my colleague Barándy: if I remember correctly, this idea did not come from László Kövér, but from János Lázár. That is, when my fellow Member Gaudi here very, very regularly criticized the Fidesz-KDNP for the accumulation of posts and the accumulation of posts, and there was an outburst after such a number of speeches, that at that time we also forbid the lawyership that Mr Gaudi would not be a lawyer and a Member of Parliament. That's how I remember it, but it could have come from László Fat. One more thing I would like to say is that this is a question of secondment, which has also been mentioned by my fellow Member, Barándy. It was indeed a very big problem when, for example, a policeman was assigned a lawyer who knew that he would be least troublesome, he would raise the least problems, he would be smoother to the office's position, but we did our legal duty, he had a public defender, he would do the most necessary things, but I'm sure we won't have much trouble with him. And there was a very, very important contradiction between the interests, who ordered it, and this solution to the law is much better. So, overall, it can be seen that this law is moving forward in many respects, and I think that it will be excluded from the legislation, paragraphs which, if appropriate, as I said in my previous speech, could form part of personal legislation, then I think that this would be eligible. I hope that there will still be changes in this law in this regard. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-05-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur to respond to what has been said in the debate. Mr. Secretary of State Pál Völner has the floor.
u2017-05-05-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Briefly, Mr Gergely Bárándy raised the question of minimum overhead charges. We would have several problems with this, as under EU law this could also be regarded as a restriction of competition, or as a kind of price riser, as you might say. It is clear that it is not primarily the price question that determines the choice of an appropriate lawyer, as it arises from the side of the prize, which several of my fellow Members have mentioned, that this offers a kind of opportunity for those who may not be able to accept a lawyer, who may not be able to bear the full costs of a lawyer without winning. In this context, there was this two-thirds ratio of whether this was sufficient or not. Obviously, this could be done, but it also means that a party who hires a lawyer can benefit from a discount of at least this rate. And as I mentioned, there are countries in which there is a particular ban on success prizes. He was trying to find a kind of middle ground here on this issue of regulation. The issue of liability insurance is that, in practice, this gradualness is likely to make it bearable for members of the Bar to introduce it. And again, I'd like to link you to the rent, and liability insurance can provide a guarantee to the client in the case of sloppy handling, that even if he acted against the lawyer, he could get his claim, so that, say, a malpractice would have caused their loss. There's been a question of account offices. In practice, this was also a topic in the negotiations with the Chamber on whether a network of large offices would be established, but the majority opinion was that local knowledge of local lawyers might sufficiently offset the distribution of the kind of franchise or whatever system the large offices would represent in this respect. With regard to real estate, it was also agreed with the Chamber that an office and a separate lawyer could not, therefore, act in a person who is also a real estate agent and can not act as a lawyer. I also understand Mr President's point of view, but this is the only way I can explain how this type of regulation has been developed. Congressman Gábor Staudt also touched on conflict of interest rules. Technically, this regulation is the same as the previous practice, and it has already been the case that board members or supervisory board chairmen have been lawyers. It is obvious that there is no obligation to work here, so it is not an employment relationship in these cases, and just because there is a single leader in companies, the kind of prohibition is maintained, where, let's say, it is governed by a body where lawyers are not allowed to make single-person decisions, but they are practically subject to majority decisions as presidents, in this sense it does not violate the principles on which the regulation has been established. How public the income of the offices is, how not, if we look at the concerns that dictated this suggestion, then we can see that it can be accurately demonstrated that if there is such a relationship between a law firm and, say, a public body, then these are very transparent, since these contracts must be made public on the public sector side. So there's a connection between which law firm performed an activity. While it is obvious that it would be unfair for those clients who, say, do not belong in this circle to disclose their data here. Therefore, the maintenance of the previous legislation is justified in this way, since the objective we would like to achieve by opening this is already guaranteed. As regards candidates for lawyers - my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre had a suggestion - it is also included in the current legislation that candidates should be entrusted with a job where they can learn the practice, prepare for the examination. So it's subject to regulation. Questions have also been raised in terms of further education; it is subject to chamber regulation and why it is not at the level of legislation. There is a duality here, isn't there, that we are pushing for what the minister has and what he doesn't have, and at the same time we want state regulation. So in these areas, if there is any chamber power, I think it's a good thing, because the lawyers themselves are able to establish the conditions along which it takes place. This is also true of the issue of secondments. This is left to the Chamber on the basis of which criteria, in what form the colleagues will be added to the list on which the secondment is to take place. In disciplinary matters, on the proposal of the President of the Regional Chamber, disciplinary inquiries must be initiated ex officio, so the Presidents have the same powers. I think this ensures proper regulation. The issue of court placements would already be the framework of the law of the court. Again, I would respond to the conflict of interest of the Members of Parliament that this was not regulated by the Law of Lawyers, but that the restriction was made from another side. [[12.50]] Even as regards the Constitutional Court, there was an institution for complaint handling, which is in fact comparable to judicial practice, which justifies its inclusion in the law. I may not have been able to answer everything, but if my fellow Members continue to have questions - it was still a matter of regionality, where I felt a little polemic, I would not be able to comment on this right now - we are obviously available during a detailed debate or during committee meetings. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-05-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the amendment of individual laws to increase the legal competitiveness of the business environment will follow until closure. The government referral is T/15362. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2017-05-05-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On the basis of both the current work in Parliament and the statements published in the press, the government will focus this year on the issue of the country's legal and economic competitiveness, and proposals to increase competitiveness will be made in the areas where the possibilities for moving forward are given. These proposals include the present bill, which specifically seeks to address business players in the context of legal competitiveness. The new arbitration law provides for the area of legal competitiveness in the area of enforcement of claims, which is T/15361 of this House. It is negotiating as a proposal. Dear House, The aim of the changes related to trust management is not only to remove the difficulties and shortcomings identified in the application of the law in recent years, and to provide a modern, sufficiently flexible and well-regulated legal institution, thus increasing the competitiveness of the country, but also to make Hungarian legislation attractive to foreign wealth clinics. International examples also show that the legal institution for trust management, which provides a special, targeted property right for the trustee, is highly widely applicable and can provide an appropriate solution for the exploitation of property both in family law and in economic life, but also in intellectual property. This proposal does not substantially change the structure of trust management, but rather refine it. It is therefore the responsibility of the legislator to support the popularisation of the legal institution by appropriate regulation. In 2014, the Civil Code regulated this legal institution to a high standard in line with Hungarian relations. The present proposal also concerns the rules of the Civil Code on trust management, but the amendments deal only to the extent necessary, with certain matters of succession and with the right to terminate the contract, so that the flexible regulatory framework can continue to be ensured. Dear House, In addition to the revision of the private law framework, the proposal also aims to amend the rules on trust management relationships that are governed by public law. The primary objective here is to ensure sufficient guarantees for businesses carrying out such activities so as to guarantee the safe functioning of trust management companies. At the same time, however, it is also a priority that the legislator should only impose conditions of authorisation on trust management undertakings which are indeed guarantees of safe operation. The conditions for carrying out business-like activities, conflict of interest conditions, restrictions will also be introduced in case-by-case trust management activities and the property protection function of the legal institution will be strengthened. Finally, it should be noted that, given that the Hungarian National Bank does not perform the usual market surveillance activities in the performance of official tasks related to trust management activities, as the trust management undertaking is not a supervised institution, the proposal clarifies the role of the Hungarian National Bank in both the authorisation and notification and the monitoring of the activity. Dear Parliament, The present proposal contains several important provisions in the field of company law and company law. In the case of limited liability companies and private limited liability companies, it is important that, in the future, proof of cash payments related to the capital increase will not only be possible in the company procedure in one way, with a credit institution certificate, but the company will be entitled to prove by means of an official statement leading to the economic event behind the capital increase that the members have fulfilled their payment obligation. In cases where payments by members are intended to maintain the company's solvency, i.e. the company would otherwise use the capital paid by its members to satisfy its business partners and creditors, the solution in the proposal will spare members and the company unnecessary, multiple administrative and transactional burdens. Dear House, An important competitiveness objective is that, in relation to the principle of free movement of capital, domestic legislation offers legal instruments that can attract foreign companies to Hungary. Depending on their choice, foreign businesses can be present in various forms in Hungarian economic life. They may be present on the basis of the Services Directive without legal establishment, providing cross-border services, but they typically appear in some form of enterprise, thus as owners of a Hungarian branch or Hungarian company. They also have the opportunity to have an economic interest, a central place of administration and a complete relocation of their seat. Today, a cross-border merger governed by the EU Directive offers this opportunity. The process of a cross-border merger provides a very important guarantee, namely that if an EU company decides to merge with the company of another Member State, the Member State of the merging company may not bind the cancellation of the merger from the register of companies in the Member States to an accounting and winding-up procedure, but the Member State of the merging company must consider it to be a merger of two companies within its borders. This guarantee element ensures the real legal and economic merger of companies established in two different Member States, the general legal and financial succession between companies. Dear Parliament, For years there has been a need for the possibility of transferring companies within the EU, but unfortunately, there has been no EU legislative work on this subject and there is no prospect of this in the near future. However, businesses have a legitimate expectation of being able to relocate to another Member State without having to terminate by winding up first. The judicial portfolio examined the possibility that cross-border relocation could only be carried out through Hungarian legislation, but it was clear that the application of the above guarantee rule, the general succession, cannot be guaranteed only by Hungarian law. The reason for this is that, despite the fact that the Hungarian law would recognise the foreign company as the predecessor of the company, Hungarian law cannot have an impact on the succession of assets, since Hungarian law cannot ensure that the legal predecessor is deleted from the foreign register without winding up. In view of this, the proposal, taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the cross-border merger, can ensure that the merger process can take place quickly and easily in cases where the foreign owner intends to move his economic interests across borders. Dear House, The explanatory memorandum submitted to the bill details the elements of the regulation. I would like to point out that the essence of the construction is that, with the merger documents prepared by the foreign company, it is possible in future to establish a Hungarian company for the purpose of the merger. This company may operate on a limited scale until the merger is registered, but it shall not be liable to tax until the merger is registered. The merger process accelerated for this arrangement, because the draft merger agreement, the audit report on the draft accounting balance sheets and the executive official report should be included in the founding documents of the Hungarian company. [[13.00]] The disclosure obligations associated with the merger may also be consolidated and the merger process may be shortened by months. The portfolio expects the solution proposed to be able to ensure that companies in the Member States can move their economic interests to Hungary in a simplified way until EU rules are established to ensure the relocation of companies to Hungary. In addition to the above, I would like to mention two further changes in company law. In the case of limited liability companies, it will also be possible to register the pledge in the event of a pledge on the part, and, in the case of stock exchange companies, the registration of the capital increase will be accelerated in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the stock exchange processes under public supervision. Dear Parliament, Finally, it should be pointed out that the proposal addresses the problems arising from the application of the law by amending the law on judicial enforcement and clarifies the rules both with regard to organisational issues and the application of the new system of division of cases which entered into force on 1 January 2017. The success of public employment programmes is well known to have a significant public interest, so in order to give effect to this, the proposal requires the executioner to start the sale of the assets covered by the public employment programme seized from the debtor only after the end of the programme. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the bill in agreement with the above provisions and aspirations. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-05-52	Thank you, Secretary of State, Pál Völner. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr István Vitányi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-05-05-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The strengthening of Hungary's competitiveness can also be facilitated by changing the legal regulatory environment, so to speak, as a step towards further development of the Hungarian economy. The Government decided to set up the National Competitiveness Council in October 2016, which held its inaugural meeting on 23 March 2017. The members of the panel have identified six areas where they see an opportunity to achieve objectives in the short term. So we can talk about setting up a company, reviewing building permits, securing energy supply, administration, protecting small owners and insolvency. The bill before us on the necessary amendment of individual laws to improve the legal competitiveness of the business environment is concerned with the above-mentioned ones. The proposal sets out the following measures to take steps to identify economic needs. The proposal ensures that the capital increase of public limited liability companies can be transferred through the register as quickly as possible. It intends to ensure that the creation of shares, which depends on the registration of a court, can start as soon as possible after the end of the subscription. The accelerated registration procedure also covers private limited companies which have already decided on their future public operation and have already been notified to the Court of Justice in accordance with the relevant section of the Company Publicity, Court of Justice and winding-up Act. By amending the law on cross-border mergers of capital companies, the proposal provides for the possibility for the capital company established in the European Union to transfer its seat to Hungary through a simplified, accelerated procedure, by means of a merger with the Hungarian company established for relocation. The submission is based on the construction of a cross-border merger, as a new solution to establish a company for relocation, and in this case offers an accelerated, facilitated form within the cross-border merger procedure. In the third subject matter, the submission makes the issue of certificates and annexes for registration of capital increases more realistic in the case of limited liability companies and private limited companies. We also need to talk about amending the law on judicial enforcement. The proposal resolves the problems arising from the application of the law and makes the regulation clearer both for organisational issues and for the application of the new system of division of cases which entered into force on 1 January 2017. Dear House, The proposal also deals with rules on trust management. Three years have passed since the introduction of the legal institution, and in these three years enough time has passed to determine the positive and negative effects of the regulation. Basically, the Ptk became necessary in two areas. amendments to its rules: on the one hand, as regards the termination of trust management by the orderant or his successor, and the possibility of excluding termination, and the succession consequences of the provision of trust management. The issue of rethinking the concept of business-likeness was highlighted in the amendment on trust managers and the rules of their activities, since the rules on the activities of business-like trust entities should be separated from the establishment of a single legal relationship. In addition, the role of the Hungarian National Bank, which is authorising and managing the register, played a role indisputable. I would add that its scope for action is extremely limited, limited to the withdrawal of the authorisation and removal from the register. Finally, I recommend the benefits of the proposal for economic policy to my fellow Members. The current Hungarian corporate tax system is particularly attractive in the EU regulatory environment. The service environment providing Hungarian accounting, auditing, tax advisors, office, lawyer and other administrative services for the operation of companies is also competitive at EU level. However, there is an interest in companies established in other EU Member States in turning into Hungarian companies. At present, however, the conduct of such a transformation is so uncertain, in the absence of the relevant specific legislation, that international transformations to Hungary are only potentially occurring at present. Furthermore, it is obvious that the Hungarian national economy can win by means of a number of approaches, for example, the management of the merger alone generates revenue for the related domestic service sector. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that, on the basis of what is set out in the bill before us, Hungary can demonstrate its commitment to the completion of the internal market by means of regulation, but it is not expected to have a negative impact on the regulation of international transformations in the internal market. Dear House, Mr President, The Fidesz faction supports the proposed bill and asks the opposition parties to do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-05-54	Thank you, Congressman Vitányi. I now give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-05-05-55	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, One of the most important tasks of today is to strengthen the competitiveness of our country. The question of competitiveness wants us to see competition between individual companies, although it is essentially and in fact between individual countries. This is why it is of great importance that Hungarian economic policy facilitates Hungarian competitiveness while at the same time reducing unnecessary administrative burdens. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Commission started its work in 2004 to prepare a Directive on the relocation of companies between Member States. There was a need for regulation allowing companies to transfer their registered office from one Member State to another under Article 49 TFEU without having to terminate previously in the State of origin. In examining the above, the European Court of Justice has made findings that a Member State may determine what relationship is necessary in order for the company to be regarded as having been established under international law, and on this basis the company should be entitled to the right of establishment and to the relationship which is necessary to maintain that quality at a later stage. [[13.10]] The possibility also includes that a Member State should not allow a company subject to international law to retain its quality if it intends to reorganise in another Member State by transferring its seat to another Member State, thereby interrupting the relationship provided for in the national law of the Member State in which it was created. However, a distinction should be made between the transfer of the head office of a company established in one Member State to another Member State without any change in personal law, where the head office of the company is transferred from one Member State to another, subject to a change in the applicable national law, since the company is converted into a form of company under the law of the Member State to which it has transferred its seat. During the consultation, Hungary considered that the consultation should deepen the expectation that Community legislation on the relocation of companies registered in the EU would be in place. The same issues raised in connection with the cross-border merger of capital companies are also raised in connection with the transfer of seat. Furthermore, given that the transfer of seats - transformation - is also based on a close relationship between two national laws, these issues cannot be resolved in a satisfactory manner only through national legislation, not including bilateral agreements. The Curia has also dealt with this issue, and 3/2013. According to the judgment of the EU Court of Justice, a decision by a foreign resident company to carry on its activities as successor to the former company in accordance with the legislation applicable in the other EU Member State constitutes an international transformation and not a transfer of international seat and is therefore removed from the foreign register at its request. In the view of the Curia, it follows that, in the event of international transformation, all legal and corporate proceedings relating to the removal of a foreign resident company from a foreign company register are governed by the relevant national law, the Hungarian courts cannot examine whether the conditions for cancellation under foreign law have been fulfilled. In order to assess how this application of the company wishing to obtain its legal status through international transformation in Hungary and making an application for registration is to be assessed, the rules of Hungarian law apply. However, these rules cannot be discriminatory and they cannot make it virtually impossible for international transformation to take place. At the same time, the court of the Member State in which the company resulting from the transformation is established has the right to enforce requirements which it requires in the event of the transformation of its own resident companies and which can be achieved even in the event of international transformation. Ladies and Gentlemen, The 2007 CXL on cross-border mergers of capital companies By amending the Act, the proposal provides for the possibility of a simplified, accelerated procedure for transferring the seat of the capital company established in the European Union to Hungary by means of a merger with the Hungarian company established for the purpose of relocation. The proposal is based on the construction of a cross-border merger of capital companies, without prejudice to the rules ensuring the transposition of the Directive. The foreign Member State must respect the decision of the foreign company and should not prevent the foreign company from continuing its activities as a Hungarian company by means of a merger. Ladies and Gentlemen, The proposal makes the issue of certificates and annexes for registration of capital increases more realistic for limited liability companies and private limited companies. The capital of the company, its accounting composition, the use of payments for the purpose of providing the subscribed capital is primarily an accounting issue, while Ctv. However, it has schematically dealt with the conditions for registration of the subscribed capital, as it requires proof of its payment to a payment account in almost all cases. The proposal therefore provides for a flexible approach to the question of the payment and payment of cash contributions in the capital increase, allowing the company to specify in the capital increase decision the manner in which the cash payment is to be used and the person who makes the cash payment, a member, is obliged to make the registration of the capital increase directly to a third party, in addition to the company decision, in the context of proof of the performance of the capital increase, it is sufficient to attach to the management officer's statement that the payment has actually been made. However, a flexible solution under the proposal cannot be used to divert the company's assets from satisfying legitimate creditors' claims against it, so the provision clearly states that if bankruptcy, winding-up proceedings, forced cancellation or enforcement are carried out against the company, the company has been declared terminated, i.e. Ctv. 26. As data in force pursuant to points (a), (b), (d), (n) or (i) of paragraph 1 of this Article, the register of companies shall contain insolvency proceedings, compulsory winding-up proceedings, cancellations or executions, the member may only pay the financial contribution to the company's cash account, or the company may not take a decision in which the financial contribution is to be paid to a third party. Ladies and Gentlemen, The need to regulate the legal institution of trust management arose during the codification of Act V of 2013 on the new Civil Code, not primarily because there was a great social need for its practical application, but rather because the legislator recognised the potential of the legal institution providing for end-to-end ownership. The legislation established in 2014 has substantially fulfilled its expectations, and the amendments contained in the proposal provide a framework for the proper application of the legal institution. In the context of a comprehensive review of trust management, the proposal addresses the uncertainties arising in the application of the law, reduces unnecessary bureaucratic burdens and helps the legal institution function properly through clearer regulation. The proposal concerns the following main regulatory areas: in a comprehensive review of the regulation on trust management, rethinking the concept of business-likeness was a priority, since the regulation on the activities of regular business-like trust entities should be separated sharply from the establishment of a one-off relationship. It was an important objective in the review to ensure that organisational requirements, conflict of interest rules and conditions for authorisation for business trusts contribute to ensuring that businesses operating on the market are properly covered by guarantees, since the aim is to facilitate the professional, safe and prudent operation of operating companies by regulation. In this context, it should be noted that the scope of trust trusts is extended to the lawyer's office. In addition, it is necessary to supplement the Ptk with respect to non-business trusts. its rules, partly because of the provisions of the new Money Laundering Bill and partly because of the new concept of businesslikeness, in order to ensure that abuses are avoided. Another objective was to clearly define the role of the Hungarian National Bank, which is authorising and managing the register. A trust firm is neither a supervised institution nor a qualifying entity to be placed among financial market participants. For the above reasons, the MNB does not exercise the supervision of trust trustees and its control role is minimal, after authorisation and registration it only examines whether the conditions for granting authorisation and registration are met. [[13.20]] Paragraph 1 (a), (b), (d), (n) or (i) contains insolvency proceedings, compulsory winding-up proceedings, cancellations or executions in force under points (a), (b), (d), (n) or (i) of the Register, the member may only pay the financial contribution to the company's cash account, or the company may not take a decision in which the financial contribution is to be paid to a third party. Ladies and Gentlemen, The need to regulate the legal institution of trust management arose during the codification of Act V of 2013 on the new Civil Code, not primarily because there was a great social need for its practical application, but rather because the legislator recognised the potential of the legal institution providing for end-to-end ownership. The legislation established in 2014 has substantially fulfilled its expectations, and the amendments contained in the proposal provide a framework for the proper application of the legal institution. In the context of a comprehensive review of trust management, the proposal addresses the uncertainties arising in the application of the law, reduces unnecessary bureaucratic burdens and helps the legal institution function properly through clearer regulation. The proposal concerns the following main regulatory areas: in a comprehensive review of the regulation on trust management, rethinking the concept of business-likeness was a priority, since the regulation on the activities of regular business-like trust entities should be separated sharply from the establishment of a one-off relationship. It was an important objective in the review to ensure that organisational requirements, conflict of interest rules and conditions for authorisation for business trusts contribute to ensuring that businesses operating on the market are properly covered by guarantees, since the aim is to facilitate the professional, safe and prudent operation of operating companies by regulation. In this context, it should be noted that the scope of trust trusts is extended to the lawyer's office. In addition, it is necessary to supplement the Ptk with respect to non-business trusts. its rules, partly because of the provisions of the new Money Laundering Bill and partly because of the new concept of businesslikeness, in order to ensure that abuses are avoided. Another objective was to clearly define the role of the Hungarian National Bank, which is authorising and managing the register. A trust firm is neither a supervised institution nor a qualifying entity to be placed among financial market participants. For the above reasons, the MNB does not exercise the supervision of trust trustees and its control role is minimal, after authorisation and registration it only examines whether the conditions for granting authorisation and registration are met. (13.20) The possibility of action is extremely limited, limited to the withdrawal of the authorisation and removal from the register. The next element of the amendment is the elimination of unnecessary bureaucratic requirements and the reduction of unjustified administrative burdens. Because both Ptk. and Bvktv. a completely new legal institution was regulated, it was inevitable that, in assessing the experience of the application of the law and rethinking the regulatory objectives, the provisions deemed unnecessary should not be repealed. The Bvktv. In its review, it was clear that, on the one hand, there are rules on licensing conditions which are irrelevant to the operation of the trust firm and, on the other hand, unduly hinder the strict conditions for entry into the market. Personal differences in the individual of the contracting parties, different professional knowledge, different information about the subject matter of the contract cannot be identified in the trust management relationship. Therefore, the idea that contracting with additional guarantees is necessary to protect a so-called retail client acting as a weaker party in trust management relationships has not proved to be correct either. Finally, it should be pointed out that, on the basis of the experience of recent years, it has also become clear that legislation does not provide a clear answer or solution to certain, typically private-law issues, which causes legal uncertainty. In order to avoid this, it is necessary to address the regulatory gaps that have arisen. In this context, the arrangement of trust management issues in the Ptk. with respect to inheritance law and the dispositive regulation of the termination of the trust management contract by the property director took place. Ladies and Gentlemen, The proposal concerns the annual LIII on judicial enforcement. By amending law, it resolves the problems arising from the application of the law and clarifies the regulation both with regard to organisational issues and with regard to the application of the new system of division of cases which entered into force on 1 January 2017. With regard to organisational issues, the proposal clarifies the relevant provisions with regard to its tasks of replacing permanent alternates, so that the proposal provides for the possibility for a newly appointed independent judicial executor and a permanent deputy acting prior to appointment to agree on enforcement matters with the permanent deputy on pending enforcement cases and the newly appointed self-executor to deal only with enforcement cases ordered after appointment. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Mr President, thank you for your information, I will continue in the general debate. Thank you.
u2017-05-05-56	Thank you very much, Congressman Vejkey. I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-05-05-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As in the title of the bill, we are faced with a salad law that amends a number of legislation. It therefore amends eight by number: the Law on Lawyers, the Real Estate Registration Act, the Law on the Enforcement of Courts, the Company Publicity Act, the Law on the Court of Justice, the Law on the winding-up of the Court, the Law on the cross-border merger of capital companies, the Civil Code, the transitional and empowering provisions relating to the entry into force of the Civil Code and the law on trust management. Its general justification shows that the aim of the bill is to reduce unnecessary administrative burdens and to provide a legal framework that recognises economic needs. Well, can you do that? The first part immediately amends the Law on Lawyers. Interesting, because that was our previous agenda, a new law of attorney. If this is already the case, the new law clearly includes the section that is included in this amendment, namely the expansion of the activities of lawyers with the trust activity. Besides, we can agree that it should expand. When this was added to the draft law before the Board of the Hungarian Bar Association on 14 November 2016 - the Presidency discussed the Ministry's position - he explained in this regard that he agreed that the scope of the activities of lawyers should be expanded with trust management activities. So I think that this must be supported, as we said at the previous item on the agenda, that some activity expansion is supported by Jobbik Hungary Movement, and that it does not support some activity expansion. However, at the previous item on the agenda, we also expressed our position on the executive officials of the companies. Of course, the trust activity is linked to the legal activity, and it is no accident that the Bar Association and Jobbik Hungary are also supported by the Movement. Another question is whether we need to regulate this law now, since the new law on lawyers will enter into force on 1 January 2018 - if it is adopted, but I think it will not come as a big surprise to us in this regard - which already contains this amendment. So, in fact, this is an over-insurance, because it's going to be covered by several laws. It is true that this will enter into force 15 days after the adoption of the proposed proposal, which means that the entry into force of this law will be about half a year before the Law of Lawyers, and it will also be valid in this transitional state that lawyers can theoretically carry out trust management activities. According to the government, the proposal ensures that public limited liability companies raise capital so that it can be transferred to the register of companies as quickly as possible. This allows, as a matter of fact, an accelerated procedure. It is proposed that three working days be at the disposal of the court. That will be the procedural deadline. But only in the case of an amendment involving only the increase in subscribed capital. If the court does not have time to deal with this during the 3 working days, the automatic registration will take place and, by the power of the law, it will be registered after 3 days. There is no possibility of a deficiency procedure. The legislation states that, in the event of rejection, the applicant may re-submit it. In this connection, I wonder how this has been in agreement with the court or tribunals whether the 3 days will really be enough to look at it, or it will be almost quasi-automatic registration, and in the absence of time, automatic registration will be general. I think that this cannot in any way serve the right legal certainty, because the procedure of the Court of Justice is, and was, clearly required to be able to look at whether everything is legal. I think three days will be short in this case. There may be some reason for this extreme urgency. I don't know about that, but I don't think three days at the courthouse is gonna be enough. There is also a significant change in the enforcement procedure, namely the enforcement procedures against the public employment company. The following is: the seizure and sale of movable and immovable property, if it would render it impossible to continue the employment of the public employees, the enforcement procedure cannot be carried out until then, so that these assets cannot be auctioned. The reasons for the legislation and the legal text itself state that the public employment programme is a major public interest and therefore the sale of the assets covered by the programme can only be started by the executive after the completion of the public employment programme. [[13.30]] Yes, it is a major issue, and it raises problems in law-dogmatics, whether the practice that has developed so far, as the law text has for decades, is that there can be no such exceptions. Now we have something to say, and when we say that public interest and strong private interest are conflicting, we should theoretically say that we should find it, and we, the legislators, should find the right solution, which is the right solution. I think that, in general, the public interest is more important than private interests, but it is very strange when such a principle of law will be passed in this way and excluded from implementation. Although I note that it is not permanently excluded from implementation, since when the public employment programme is completed, these assets will also be auctioned. So here's some kind of fuse. I think that there should be more safeguards, and perhaps a deadline should be set for how long this public employment programme can last until the auction can be carried out, and enforcement actions cannot be implemented. The proposal also includes new rules on companies based in Hungary for the purpose of cross-border mergers of capital companies. Such a company can be registered with relative simplicity. The company established for the purposes of the merger at the Court of Justice shall be the company "e.g. You'll be given a solution. The acquiring company thus registered is in an interesting legal position, since it cannot open an account, it cannot have a cash account, it cannot choose a manager, it cannot establish a civil relationship, it cannot enter into any obligations, it cannot acquire rights, it can only make decisions for the purposes of the merger and it has no obligation to pay taxes. So this is a very interesting legal situation, which is, and is not, a little bit, but rather, no rights or obligations can be subject to. There is an interesting legal situation that is difficult to fit into the legal system in my view. It is understandable, by the way, what purpose the legislator has with this, but the question is whether it is worth opening a box in this way. Easier for companies to take the kft. and Zrt. When raising its subscribed capital, the payment of a financial contribution to a company shall also be deemed to be made by the person making the payment of the financial contribution to a third party in accordance with the conditions laid down in the decision to increase the subscribed capital. This has already been mentioned by previous speakers, which was otherwise required to be paid into a payment account in a demonstrable manner. After this, it will not be compulsory for the company to deposit it in its account, but can also be paid to a third party. Again, this loosens the faith in legal certainty a little, I think, when something can be done in this way. In particular, it is a guarantee element, an important guarantee element, that the company must, in its decision, determine the conditions under which it may be paid to a third party, and that it is only possible to make use of this possibility, payment to a third party, provided that the company so requires, and that payment is made according to that decision. The practice will tell whether this will be a sufficient guarantee element, or whether this may in some way be an opportunity for abuse in the area of capital increases. In the next section, it amends the trust relationship as a result of a change in the civil code. Some issues have not been properly addressed by the legislation adopted so far, and this is important to resolve. We agree with these, by the way. Where, in the event of the death of the trust or the termination of its successor, it may designate who is entitled to exercise the rights of the trust, to fulfil the obligations. The other provision entitles the trust to terminate the contract concluded for an indefinite period. It has also been said that it has been clear so far that the person who manages the money has the opportunity to resign. In the indeterminate case, however, it was not possible for the estate orderer to terminate this contract. It is true that it was possible to conclude on the basis of the ordering relationship that there was an opportunity, but it is more clear if, under specific legislation, an amendment gives it the right to do so. Another very important question is whether the part of the obligation is to be published and the part of the obligation is the basis for the property that the orderant has given to the trust management. In order to prevent preliminary disputes, it is also right that the legislator took a position on the question of avoiding future disputes, that it belongs to the property of the estate, and that it is also the basis for its obligation. However, it can be seen that in some cases, therefore, the bill is largely forward-looking, so it really does fulfill what is in its title, it really simplifies, it really makes the procedure easier and faster. Another question is that practice will tell us whether these accelerations will not be at the expense of legal certainty. That is why, in some respects, there are two ways that this will work, but then, once we have some years of practice, we will be able to tell whether this legislation is good or if it will need to be amended constantly. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-05-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2017-05-05-59	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/15362. I would also like to mention that the bill will extend the scope of the tasks of executive candidates so that executive candidates can carry out on-the-spot procedural actions if they have a judicial executive exam. For these procedural acts, the law does not impose any additional conditions on candidates for enforcement. The seizure and sale of movable or immovable property used in the public employment programme, which constitutes the assets of the public employment worker and is currently underway, in the course of its implementation against the debtor who is a public employer, renders it impossible for the public employees to continue their employment. The sale during the implementation procedure in these cases would lead to the failure of the public employment programme. At the same time, the success of public employment programmes has a significant public interest, for which it is proposed that the executioner may start selling the assets covered by the public employment programme seized from the debtor only after the programme has been closed. The proposal removes the possibility that in the enforcement procedure the applicant may terminate the trust management contract and accordingly repeals the executive's mandate to contact the Office in order to provide information on the trust management contract. Ladies and Gentlemen, To sum up, the Parliamentary Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports T/15362 on the amendment of individual laws to increase the legal competitiveness of the business environment. Bill No. 1. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-05-05-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask after we've reached the end of the keynote speeches if anyone else would like to comment. [[No signal.]] No further comments were received. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, who clearly wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[13.40]]
u2017-05-05-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Just briefly, I would like to answer one question to my fellow Member, Mr Csaba Gyüre, who had a question about the deadline for raising capital in the open companies. Since these companies are relatively small, and in all cases the judges act, we see that this deadline can be met, and that the National Bank itself supervises these capital increases, so that kind of enhanced supervision is carried out from a different perspective. So we don't see any danger in that. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-05-62	Thank you very much, Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Now, Honourable Parliament, the 2003 CXXV on equal treatment and the promotion of equal opportunities follows. Law and the 2011 CXC on National Public Education. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T12366. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame.
u2017-05-05-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, Article XV of the Fundamental Law of Hungary Article 2 (2) states that Hungary shall ensure fundamental rights for all, without distinction between any discrimination, namely race, colour, gender, disability, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other situation. Paragraph 4 states that Hungary is helping to achieve equal opportunities and social inclusion through specific measures. CXXV of 2003 on equal treatment and the promotion of equal opportunities, in line with the provision of these basic provisions. Law and the 2011 CXC on National Public Education. T12366. The purpose of the bill is to clarify certain rules of the legislation in force and to clarify their content more clearly and better. The bill clearly reflects the government's commitment to combating discrimination and ensuring the availability and quality of education. Accordingly, the proposal amends the Equal Treatment Act and the Public Education Act in the same spirit. Dear House, The bill first confirms, in more clarity and detail than the text in force, that any form of education should not lead to prohibited discrimination on the basis of the origin of pupils. Secondly, the proposal states not only as a requirement for education, but also as a guarantee of the constitutional core values of equal treatment, that nationality education must be of the same standard as general public education, and that it must comply with the detailed and strict legal conditions currently in place for this type of education. Thirdly, the bill sets out a specific provision for education, which is based on religious beliefs and is based on nationality. Of course, this special rule also includes, as an explanatory statement, that such education must comply with the rules of both forms of education concerned. Finally, the proposal repeals the empowering provision of the Public Education Act, which is no longer required as a result of these new rules, as all substantive guarantees will be clearly included in the amended laws. Dear House, I am convinced that the proposal is capable of providing clear and appropriate answers to the problems arising from the case-law and of eliminating uncertainties and misinterpretations that may have occurred in relation to the relevant provisions previously. Dear Parliament, The present bill comes up with the need for legislation to ensure legal accuracy, the proper functioning of legal institutions and social institutions, to assist in the application of the law and to designate its right value. I am convinced that the implementation of these values is our shared commitment and responsibility. I therefore ask that the bill be supported in the vote after its discussion. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-05-64	Thank you very much, Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-05-05-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group supports the proposed bill, because it is a continuation of the firm and rigorous legal action taken so far to ensure equal treatment and equal opportunities. The bill clarifies, clarifies and complements two major earlier laws, the 2003 CXXV on equal treatment and the promotion of equal opportunities. Act and the 2011 CXC on National Public Education. Some of the rules of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, The European Commission found certain detailed rules of these two laws to be contrary to Directive 2000/43/EC and, therefore, initiated infringement proceedings against Hungary on 27 May 2016. The formal notice initiating the procedure expressly challenged the 2003 CXXV on equal treatment and the promotion of equal opportunities. Law and the 2011 CXC on National Public Education. certain detailed rules of law and the interpretation of judicial law based on it. The purpose of this bill is to resolve the conflict indicated by the European Commission, to clarify and complement the two laws. The essential elements of the proposed amendments are the following: we must establish and record, according to this bill, the Law on Equal Treatment and the Promotion of Equal Opportunities, that education based on religious conviction should not lead to illegal discrimination on an ethnic basis. In this context, it is necessary and necessary to record, after the adoption of this bill, that it is recorded in the public education law, that it is legal, however, that education which meets the requirements of religiously based education and ethnic education at the same time, so that students can participate in it on a religious and ethnic basis. In addition, it is necessary to declare the requirement in the law that average standards equivalent to public education in national education are required in the transfer of knowledge, the development of skills, and that they comply with the statutory conditions for this type of education, which are already in existence. Finally, the National Public Education Act 94. In accordance with paragraph 4 (z) of this Act, we must repeal an authorisation clause which is not yet completed by implementing legislation. [[13.50]] The power to adopt implementing acts in accordance with point (z) of paragraph 1 should be repealed under the present bill. (1.13.50) It is important to note that in recent months, the Ministry of Wallet and Human Resources has conducted in-depth consultations with representatives of historical churches, who have accepted and support the current legislative amendment. I note that since a very long time has passed - the bill was submitted in October 2016 - the date of entry into force at that time, according to the proposal submitted at that time, will be 1 January 2017, and there will be a need for an amendment to the law adopted in this spring session, which will need to be amended accordingly. All in all, therefore, the proposed legislation fully meets both the requirements of EU law and the need to create an even wider level of equal opportunities, and therefore the Fidesz faction proposes to this House that it should be adopted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-05-66	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I now give the floor to Mr László Teleki, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-05-05-67	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, This infringement procedure, I think, did not miss Hungary by any means, because we in the opposition have often said that with the education we see, something should be done either by Minister Zoltán Balog or by the rest of the government. But they didn't listen to the warning word that we are not speaking because we are opposition representatives, but because we thought it was important that the social class that wanted access to education in Hungary in the spirit of equal opportunities... - then I think that we did this only for fear and protection. However, now that we see what amendment they are proposing and how they want to eliminate the damage, I think that this is certainly welcome, because they have set out to comply with the European Commission. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this will not solve the educational situation of Roma in Hungary. And I would also like to raise some of the fundamental questions that may not be on the Secretary of State's territory, but it would certainly be important to take it as a warning from the government. One: many times it is said that church education will trigger the problem that the educational situation of Roma in Hungary has. Surely there is truth in that church schools can play a great role in giving the Roma a greater chance of further education in Hungary than before. But it is also possible to see that not all parents and not all children want to move in this direction, but in the other direction we do not see much chance that the break-out points may be possible, nor do we see the chance that the percentages that we now see in the statistics, what the situation of Roma pupils looks like, would improve. If we do not go further, only until the period of the regime change, then you can see that the proportion of primary school graduates was about 80-85 percent, which is a pretty good number compared to what was in the 1960s, while the number of secondary school students at the time of the reform was only 5 percent, so it is very low. A total of 1 percent of Hungarian Roma were able to reach university and college. The reason for this has never been sufficiently investigated, and there must be self-criticism here, and our government has not fully examined it, although the MSZP government has provided much more opportunities for Roma to reach educational forms that represent higher education. If we look at the numbers and compare them, we can see that the situation has not changed much since the change of regime. There are so many changes that the proportion of college-university graduates has increased, so there is an increase here, but the situation in primary school age is similar to that in the period of the regime change. It also shows that this issue must be dealt with by the government. And in what area? It is very often seen that geographical areas limit who receives what education and who has access to what education system. When we look at South Baranya, we see that the quality of education is inadequate. The Commission of the European Union also wants to change the conditions for education in places such as South Baranya or North-East Hungary. Here, I would like to underline and state that not only Roma pupils have a miserable fate when we talk about such areas, the situation of non-Romas is similar, but it is more different in that it is even more difficult to get into educational institutions from the segmented settlements. As a result, we must explain that, in particular, the municipalities and the geographical areas in which the disadvantaged live are still unable to guarantee the quality of education or the quality of educational institutions, which is very important, but even more importantly, that the professional provision of teachers is lacking. So there is no professional force, no labour force, no employment force that can truly carry out the task that it encounters when it finds the problem in disadvantaged regions, in geographical areas. And why not? I have mentioned it many times, and I would like to underline now that educating teachers is not right. Education for teachers should definitely be put on a new basis, because if there will not be a young person sensitive to the educational career, then he will not very much choose the way of life to teach in a geographical location where he meets disadvantaged people. Just as in primary medical care doctors can no longer be kept in such places with lassos, the same is the case with teachers, and it can be said that many times pensioners and pensioners teach in such places. From this, it can only be concluded that it is absolutely important to rethink and consider how to be sensitive, and not only to be sensitive on the other side, but also to pay the teachers to whom the career model has been announced, but not to be reached very much. Especially in those areas I'm talking about. You can say that the teacher's career model reaches everyone, but believe me, accept that in many places they tell me that they don't understand what they're talking about when they're talking about a teacher's career, because when they teach a Roma school, it's not compensated; it's not compensated and it's not paid for by that teacher. As a result, you can see that there is a very big problem, and there must be something to be done. In order to change the statistical series I mentioned, it is essential to change the geographical situation. In geographical areas where disadvantaged people live and live, the quality of education needs to be increased, I repeat, in the structural system of the educational institution and in human resources, because if they do not do so, there is no way to see how the situation of those living there can change. How's it going in the big cities? The infringement procedure was initiated precisely because in several larger settlements, such as Nyíregyháza - named at the Huszártelep - they studied under conditions that sparked a debate about whether or not children who go there know it as a segregational educational institution are studying under segregational conditions. The court answered that, yes, it certainly considers it to be segregational. With this opportunity, we may be in a new situation and you can see that there may be a shift in this. But what can be done in such a place when concentrated Roma students live in a certain place? I think it is in no way desirable, and we cannot achieve it, either at government level or anyone, so that we can bring non-Roma students and students in there, and from then on everything will change. There is only one way to change these metropolitan segregations according to my standards and by ensuring access to quality education. [[14.00]] If access to quality education was ensured, I think that the environment that could provide basic education in public education could be attractive for everyone. So the question, Mr Secretary, is whether you wish to move forward in this matter. That through quality education, even if the Roma population is highly concentrated in that region, they may even give the non-Roma an opportunity to take the children there, rather than 15-20 kilometers from the settlement or from one end of the city to another, so that they do not study with the Gypsy children. So quality improvement could certainly handle this situation and not deepen the problems, but, on the contrary, bury the trenches. In addition, I think it is very important that when we talk about education, we look at it in its complexity, because when we read the report from the European Commission, the Commission not only wrote about education in the report, but also wrote about the lack of complexity that parents have no job and housing situation. From now on, there is no condition that the child can actually go to the educational institution, no background that can help the child in education. The report would like to mention, first of all, that it is also important to address the issue of equal opportunities for education not only for children, but also for parents and the environment of parents. Public employment is the only job they can have, but it's equal to relief. The only difference is that he's doing a job here if they can give him any real work. But at least the kid sees a picture that can be a model, a model for him. So I don't think it's wrong to have public employment, but it's an employment trap that you can't really avoid. Therefore, do you want to deal in a complex way with improving the employment situation of parents in the field of education and housing, as I said, how do you want to deal with it? I do not want to mention what I have said many times, that there are 650 Gypsy colonies today, and there are nearly 120 thousand Roma people living in Gypsy settlements, where the breakout point is equal to zero, if you can put it that way; it is not in education, employment, housing or health care, but I do not want to talk about it now. How am I supposed to break out of this trap? In any case, I think it is important that the student programmes that have been or have started now continue to develop, because I would like to underline that these work well. Once again, as an opposition representative, I would like to underline that they are working well. I miss the fact that there are no more metropolitan areas because of the financial framework. But here again, I would like to draw your attention to the government, Mr Secretary of State, to try to invest in the next year's budget, to include costs that compensate for this, and there may be schools in as many settlements as possible that are necessary for catching up, caring for talent; so take over from parents tasks that parents cannot perform. To do so, however, resources must be allocated, because it is very important that the goal, direction, is formulated on your part, but the structure is not fully built. I think that by assigning financial conditions, this could and should go. The other very important part, Mr. Secretary of State, I have asked many times for the scholarship system to be in a structure where it is transparent how many Roma children receive scholarships. Because if we knew now how many children are receiving scholarships in primary school, secondary school or higher education, then we could better answer the Brussels administration about how much money the government has invested in increasing the chances of Roma children from primary school to public education to university and college. But I guess they don't do that because they don't want to show how little money is spent on a scholarship for Roma children. That is why I would ask Mr Secretary of State, who I consider to be a very serious man, to be able to see that taxpayers' forints, which are devoted to education for Roma children, are in the interest of all taxpayers who would like to see what their money is spent on, to see how many of these children receive support from this money they pay, how many of them can get to college and college. Because then we would make visible the resources that would be open to them. [[István Ikotity takes his place in the notary seat.]] Therefore, the problem should not be preserved by leaving them and trying to pay for their scholarship in the situation they are in. Because I don't doubt that there are many billions, but you can't see how much you're paying, and there's a lot of feedback coming from this. I'm just giving you one example of how I'm doing it. In 1998, some 8,000 students were supported, 32,000 children at the end of our government, and still about the same ratio. The question is why this number has not been able to rise in recent years. And if he could rise, the only way to see this is to open it up, just like the Hungarian Gypsies Public Foundation, where it was open and visible how many Gypsy children received scholarships. It is also in your interest to see that Roma intellectuals are present in Hungary, and, yes, there are those who can break out through education, nowhere else. Our joint responsibility, if you will, to the opposition, government, government and opposition, is whether we can move forward on this issue in Hungary, so that the educational chances of Roma in Hungary can increase in situations where we are able to do something not only in terms of the EU infringement procedure but also in its complexity. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-05-68	Thank you very much, Congressman László Teleki. I now give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2017-05-05-69	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary seeks to promote equal treatment and equal opportunities in all areas of life, especially in the field of public education. However, on 27 May 2016, the European Commission launched infringement proceedings against our country, in its view because of ethnic segregation in education, referring to the fact that some of the detailed rules of the relevant Hungarian provisions are contrary to Directive 2000/43/EC. The formal notice initiating the procedure expressly challenged the 2003 CXXV on equal treatment and the promotion of equal opportunities. Act CXCIV of 2011 on National Public Education. Some of the detailed rules of the Act, as well as the interpretation and case-law of the Hungarian court based on it. Ladies and Gentlemen, On behalf of the Government, the Minister of Justice submitted to the House on 4 October 2016 by the Ebktv. And the Nkt. T/12363. Bill No. 1. The essential element of the proposed amendments is to establish, on the one hand, that education based on religious belief in the Ebktv cannot lead to ethnic, prohibited discrimination; on the other hand, to record in the public education law that education which simultaneously meets the requirements of religious belief and national education is lawful; on the other hand, to declare the requirement that nationality education ensure the transfer of knowledge at an average level equivalent to public education and to comply with the existing legal conditions for this type of education; and, on the other hand, to declare that nationality education is equivalent to public education; and, on the other hand, to comply with the current legal conditions for this type of education; and, on the third, to the Nkt. 94. Paragraph 4 (z) provides for the repeal of a provision authorising it. [[14.10]] Ladies and Gentlemen, The planned legislative amendments were discussed by the government in consultation with the representatives of the historical churches and accepted by the historical churches. The advantage of these is that the majority of ecclesiastical schools retain the existing norm and only schools where there is an illegal separation on an ethnic basis change. Ladies and Gentlemen, The parliamentary faction of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports T12366. Bill No. 1. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-05-70	Thank you, Congressman Vejkey. I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-05-05-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik does not support the bill, at least this proposal, which is before us, despite my fellow Member Vejkey's request, we will certainly not support it. If this bill hadn't been submitted by Fidesz, but by any opposition party, then I would hear the Fidesz's communication raging, that now, this opposition party is behind George Soros, pushing George Soros's chariot, standing behind Brussels, the Brussels road roller is taking everything, you can see - we would get this. I know, I know you. I know that's what we're gonna get. After all, what are the reasons why this bill was submitted? The basics are that organisations calling themselves a legal protection organisation have turned to all kinds of international forums, such organisations as you call the Tentacles of György Soros constantly in communication, which have indicated to Brussels and everywhere that there is a great distinction and segregation. When a procedure was initiated, there was the Czech justice commissioner from the European Union, named Věra Jourová, who wrote in his letter that, well, that must be changed, because the protection organisations you consider to be the forward bastions of George Soros say that. And you said that this was a revenge for Brussels for launching this infringement procedure, a revenge procedure for Hungary not accepting migrants, and so taking revenge on us, and you are the great freedom fighters, and you are certainly going to stand up to Brussels, and you are going to confront George Soros - but what is going on? In the end, they always back down. They'll back down, just like they did in the migrant case. Well, it has already been announced in Brussels that migrants under the age of 18 will already be received by Hungary, so they also backed down here before the infringement procedure was completed. Here, too, you are giving Soros rights organisations the truth in this area, so I would see the communication steamroller that would start in the event that the opposition party had tabled this. But it wasn't a party of opposition, it was you who brought it in. Why? It has already been said here that we are indeed accused of serious segregation in the education system in Hungary. Well, we are not the first to be accused of this, since the Czech Republic was the first, then followed by Slovakia, and then, together with us, Greece was put on the imaginary rack on this subject, and it is said that Italy will soon be in the same situation. This is because of the reasoning put forward in Hungary by the organisations that hold themselves as a legal protection organisation on this issue, that segregation has indeed been achieved. Let's see if this segregation really takes place or how this segregation takes place. The Justice Commissioner Věra Jourová also referred to it in a letter, such as the Huszár-based school in Nyíregyháza as an example of this. I've been here from Nyíregyháza myself, I've lived in Nyíregyháza for 27 years, and I know the history of the Huszár-based school. I also know that when this school was closed because the essence of a previous government cycle was one of the cornerstones of its education policy was that there cannot be a school where only gypsies come from, completely ignoring the fact that there, in that area, in the field of education, we are talking about 99.8 percent of the area inhabited by Gypsies, so there is no way to find a non-Gypsy origin who could be enrolled in that school if you look at the districts. No, regardless, this school was terminated and the children of 99 percent Gypsy origin were integrated into the downtown school of Nyíregyháza. Well, it's become a big protest. Do you know who protested? Well, the hussar-field gypsies protested more than once, precisely because they were going to restore their school to them. Well, don't tell them from somewhere else, don't tell them, don't tell them, or organizations who say they're rights defenders, tell them which schools they should go to, let them decide for themselves where they want to go, and if they like Huszár-based school, if they have a good school, parents have a good school, children have a good school, teachers have a good school, they don't tell them from Budapest and Brussels whether they have to close or not. Thus a temporary solution was born, so that the Greek Catholic Church had taken over the operation of this school, and to everyone's greatest joy and satisfaction, this school began to function. I ask how Brussels knows what the composition of the population is. How do you know? My fellow Member, Teleki, also spoke about the fact that there is often no way to avoid segregation of education because there is no possibility for children to be transferred to another settlement, where appropriate, to continue learning in the framework of integrated education. How does Brussels know that? How can you determine that? Minister János Lázár even suggested that how does the Commission even know who the Gypsies are in Hungary, that only Gypsies go to that school? How do you know? How does the Commission know who the Gypsies are? Even that could be a question in this case. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: How do you know?]] How do you know? We don't know how you know it, but there are organizations that set themselves up to protect themselves, who know who the gypsies are and who the gypsies aren't, and they know that such a school must be closed. So what happened? They took the children, returning to the Huszár-based school with a thought, and the serious damage that some people are suffering from, based on their unthinking, Brussels-led or otherwise-controlled thinking, to where we will go, children who had attended the Huszár-based school and received the education that was appropriate for their own level of knowledge were transferred to the inner-city, often elite schools where the quality of education was, I might say, not of ordinary quality. Imagine, when a gypsy child of below-average educational standards gets into a higher-than-average school, he doesn't know what it is in mathematics class, because he doesn't understand because they weren't there in the curriculum, he's transferred to that school, and he can't take the lead, he can't compete with kids who have been studying at that school for, say, six years. What's happening? He's completely behind. If you fall behind, you won't participate in education because you can't listen because you don't understand what this is about. What are you gonna do? He starts talking, starts messing around, starts playing with his phone, and all that stuff. What's happening? It will disturb children who, on the other hand, want to participate in education, want to receive the high level of education they have received, and they want to keep it. I'm not even gonna talk about what else happened at school, because it could be complicated, but things happened. You can ask people who went to these schools. In fact, it wasn't a good solution for anyone. Perhaps the defenders applauded this because the school they said was abandoned, and in many schools the quality of education was ruined, because it should not have been combined in this way. Or there are more and more settlements in Hungary, for example, I could mention Tiszabő, where almost only Gypsy children go to school, but there are several such settlements. How can it be achieved that they are not the only ones who go there? I simply cannot imagine how Brussels will think about this, that there is such a segregation in Hungary and that this must be stopped immediately. Well, I have an idea, in Brussels, at some kind of elite school, maybe in boarding school, if that's what you're willing to do. I said that in parentheses. But what's important? Most importantly, with integrated education in Hungary, equal opportunities are far from being created. Mr Teleki also said that there will be no equal opportunities by making this legislation. There won't be equal opportunities, because even if that child doesn't stand out, there won't be a better chance if we force him into another school than they did in the case of the Huszár settlement school. [[14.20]] That doesn't make him a good student. That doesn't mean he's gonna be able to go to high school, he's not gonna be able to go to college. That's not how he's gonna go to college. So you have to change the education system itself. Yes, the problem is not that, let's say, a school or a class is just a gypsy child, but the problem is that these children must receive the same standard of education, the same opportunity as all other schools. When you created the famous system of bringing schools together into a system, and now we will be the maintainers of it, and now everyone will have an equal chance, if you had meant it then, then you could really have achieved parts in this, but we have seen that this kind of centralization doesn't work at all. So, somewhere in rural schools, you have to give them the chance to have children of gypsy origin who study together, together, have a chance. What's the most important thing? We would consider it very important for more and more gypsy teachers to come out, who can set an example for children, who can look up to, that they have really gotten out of that line, that they have studied in college, that they have a certain serious, good job, and that they are raising children. The example should be set, and it would be very important to have schools with gypsy teachers. It's not that only gypsies go to that class and that school, and it's gonna get more and more like it. We do not know what to do when we see that in many settlements in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County there are more children enrolling in the first place today than the children of the parents of the current majority society, when we see that there will be more and more classes, more and more schools with only Gypsy children, because they live in the majority of the settlement, and they have the most children, so 60-70 percent of them are Gypsies. Nor is it possible to be outraged when someone says that education in that educational institution is not so good and will take his child to another educational institution. And here comes an eternal problem that my fellow Member Teleki talked about, perhaps not now, but in a previous speech that yes, but in many cases the parents of children of gypsy origin cannot, for financial reasons, take him to another school. I think that somewhere it would be the job of the EMMI to eliminate these inequalities of chance, both in terms of money, equipment and human policy, to focus on this, and then to resolve this situation, which is not the way to resolve it. We will make a law to accept Brussels's proposal, which Brussels will prescribe from there. I beg you to stop Brussels, you say and what happens: you will take it, even if it is not good, you may disagree with it. So you're announcing a freedom fight that's insanely roaring in communication, that's all it's all about, but it's you who don't do it, but speak differently there, and speak completely differently here. I think that this bill, which has been tabled, will not solve this problem at all; it will not improve equal treatment; it will not bring equal opportunities to the present time in Hungary; this will not give the Gypsy children a greater chance to rise. They will do one thing: they will accept the demands of the organisations who say that they are rights defenders, who will join the next step in the same way, they will not like it, because what Věra Jourová and the European Commission want to do here, and they will not like it, because it will not be possible to achieve what Věra Jourová and the European Commission want. I think that there is a relatively well-established system in Hungary and that this system should not be disrupted. Just as the Huszár-based example in Nyíregyháza showed how serious problems have come to light, and these problems have occurred primarily in gypsies, I think that in this case, too, if we stop schools of this kind when we want to take integrated education through everything, it will only give rise to problems. Unfortunately, the quality of education in Hungary has declined in an amazing way over the past 20-25 years. I think everyone agrees that there is a great decline. By the way, all kinds of surveys show that when we talk about the results of the PISA test, they clearly show this, but when Hungarian young people and students go to world competitions, it also shows this. So somewhere the Ministry should make a big difference in order to improve the quality of education in Hungary, but this is not the solution. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-05-72	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Gyure. I give the floor to István Ikotity, the mayor of the political group.
u2017-05-05-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us is not a recent amendment, since it was submitted to the Parliament last October, but for some reason we are only discussing it now. This is a refreshing exception, since, unfortunately, Fidesz-KDNP usually pushes laws through Parliament in days. The problem is, of course, how much they care about it in the meantime. In fact, we are talking about an amendment that is in order here. Probably because of the ongoing EU infringement procedure, they want to make it clearer in the Equal Treatment Act and in the Public Education Law that education based on religious beliefs should not lead to illegal discrimination on an ethnic basis. The proposal also lays down the requirement that nationality education should ensure the transfer of knowledge at an average level equivalent to public education and that it complies with the legal requirements for this type of education, which are existing. And when we talk about religious and ethnic education at the same time, it is appropriate to meet all the requirements of religiously based education and ethnic education at the same time. These changes are, in our view, acceptable. They're a bit of a back-dancer compared to the previous changes. An example of back-dancing is also the removal of the authorisation for regulation, which was previously a big debate. It was incorporated in the Public Education Act in 2014 that the Minister of Human Resources could impose specific conditions, where the requirement of equal treatment was not met. At the time, this brought great uncertainty, since even though the prohibition on the violation of equal treatment could not have been exceeded by this option, it was as if they were trying to relax the strict bans. At the time, LMP did not think that this was a conscious attempt by the government to increase segregation, or to create a direct opportunity for further unlucky solutions, but we are glad that this regulation has not been adopted since then, and that the power to create it will now be abolished. This now creates a clearer and clearer situation. At that time, in December 2014, Imre Sipos, Deputy State Secretary for Public Education, explained the need for regulation, and I quote:, at this legislative level, i.e. at the level of the regulation, the expectations of informing parents of professional content and providing guarantees at the level of the legislator's rules. " In the summer of 2015, a draft amendment regulation was published to regulate technical details of applications for religious or philosophical beliefs, as well as for ethnic education. However, this amendment did not enter into force in the end, but in another form it was included in the Government Decree on the implementation of public education rules, leaving out the contentious parts. The government is therefore quite uncertain at the level of legislation when it comes to equal treatment or segregation. It is uncertain that there are legislative or regulatory changes and withdrawals, but they do not make the situation of segregation in Hungary any worse or better. Which is a big problem, by the way, because as long as the legislation is being groomed, they do not deal with the real problems, they do not face significantly extensive school segregation and the danger that the situation will only get worse. There has not been enough progress to provide any additional assistance to segregation-stricken schools or departments. Minister Zoltán Balog said earlier on on a TV program that there are situations when social processes make the creation of segmented classes inevitable, but the government will help these schools with special additional services. The LMP, but I personally asked him on numerous occasions, here in Parliament, at committee meetings, in writing what these special additional services meant specifically, mentioned by the Minister, when these special solutions were coming, but he and his deputy, Mr Rétvári Secretary of State, have always been bypassed, and we have not known exactly what this is all about since. Since then, we have been waiting for this special help. [[14.30]] But how would the government know exactly which schools they should help, where they should intervene and eliminate segregation, or at least improve the inevitable situations if they do not know where and what extent segregation in Hungary is? Let there be no misunderstanding, we have said before that segregation can not only be caused by education policy. Not only is it the result of educational decisions, but also of social processes in which education and school cannot change, but can only dampen their impact. In Hungary, however, the negative effects are not mitigated or corrected; in general, education policy will only make the situation worse; just think that the school will not only compensate for the disadvantages from home, but also increase it over the course of school years. This is seriously unfair, and many of the consequences can be found in various international surveys. Hungary is a record of how much it preserves, does not reduce, does not dampen, but preserves and even increases the differences in our education system. I would like to remind you that it was the initiative of the LMP in 2015 to assess segregation in schools in Hungary. We have the necessary social science tools to do this, and science can help us to do that. There were former researchers who did this; let's just think about the research of Gábor Havas and Ilona Liskó from the 2000s. They had already claimed, on the basis of scientific methods, that they were segregation of Roma students in 600-700 primary schools. Other research shows that even half of Roma pupils can be in a class where they are separated from others and are disadvantaged. These are terrifying data, but the Fidesz-KDNP government doesn't even want to know the size and exact characteristics of the problem. If there were any advantages to a nationalized school system at all, this could be precisely that at least from top to system level you could see the characteristics and problems. But no, they don't even do that, they don't look at such basic things in their own school system. That's really sad. Because there is no need to say that even if the government does not directly assist segregation processes - indirectly, it is very helpful, let us think of the Bridge programmes - we are talking about a real problem. A problem that is illegal and seriously unfair. It is unfair, for those who study in segregation classes typically learn under much worse conditions in all aspects. They're achieving much worse results. Their later education will be impossible. This determines their future position in the labour market, defines their opportunities, incomes and their environment. Not only does the youth lose a lot, but Hungary is also wasting its human resources in a mass, in a nasty word. We all lose with bad education, segregation classes. It is incomprehensible why the Fidesz-KDNP has not taken the time to look into the depth and magnitude of the problem. We are not talking about giving a solution, but at least look at the situation, assess the segregation of schools. The LMP will continue to promote, recommend and even request this. This is a sensible proposal, please consider not to be swept off with the ridiculous argument that you had previously swept off, that, in any case, the concept of segregation is not clear, nor can it be researched. But yes, there may have been a number of scientific research on this topic in the world, unfortunately very few in Hungary, and also without exception before 2010. Don't make a party policy out of this, let the researchers work, trust them, find out the facts, explore the real situation. Unfortunately, as long as war goes on with the European Union, nothing will change in this area. We're doing the show here in Parliament, we're groping the Equal Treatment Act, but where the situation is most serious, in villages, small settlements, schools, classrooms, there's nothing going to change. And if anything, then this is really a very serious problem. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree in many respects that this is a very difficult issue and it is very difficult to find a solution to this in the current situation. We have a lot of gifts that need to be treated as virtually a gift. I can talk about a free school election here, because it's the starting point for these processes, too. I can talk about what the lead speaker before me said, that there really are a lot of settlements where there is no one to integrate with, so it is simply a situation, an ethnic situation that does not allow integrated education. But I am asking my honourable fellow Member whether they know better, because I am convinced that there is no model anywhere in the world that can show the long-term positive benefits of segregational education, but even in the short term. I think this cannot be the subject of debate, because there is no model, and we can think for ourselves about it, it is possible to think about it, that we invent the Spanish wax, but there are also working solutions that should be followed. I think, contrary to what has been said earlier, that this would not be the task of the EMMI, not even of the government. This is a problem that would require much more comprehensive and much more careful attention, and it would require a lot more resources, because if anyone wants to change that, it cannot be that the government wants to continue to save money in this area, for example, but rather that a great deal of resources must be devoted to it and solutions that work, to apply them and to use them. More care must be put simply into these areas. Teachers who undertake teaching in such schools in such areas should be given stronger support and priority benefits, since they are indeed performing a much more difficult task. I'm asking the government not to hit this thing with such fine-tunings, but to find a solution, and I think that if there's a real solution going on, you can count on others, on us. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-05-05-74	Thank you very much, Congressman Ikotity. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the Slovenian ethnic advocate Erika Kissné Köles, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translate it into Hungarian. You have the floor, Madam Speaker.
u2017-05-05-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Spoštovani Predsednik, spoštovane gospe Poslanke in gospodje Poslanci, cenjeni Zbor! Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Dear House, The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary of the National Assembly by the Government of Hungary, before us, T/12366. It requested that the draft law be discussed as a minority item because the bill at some level requires that the constitutional requirement for equal treatment also be applied more effectively in national education. [[14.40]] Equal opportunities and equal treatment in a society do not allow anyone or any group to create obstacles to the self-execution of the human community, its living and just existence, but also to provide opportunities that open or open to a particular person, a group, to assert their individuality and characteristics. Therefore, I sincerely hope that this law is not about what we have just debated or listened to speeches so that the schools that have been put into nationality or ethnically quoting sign are not able to operate in specific settlements, which are segmented with the eyes of legal protection organisations. Then did the Slovenian schools, the German schools, defy you? And will we shut them down when we strive to keep these institutions up? Or is the issue of segregation only in the case of the Roma? I hope that's not what this is about. Of course, for a community living in a majority society and a national minority, there is no segregation. On 12 December 2014, the Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of the Rights of Nationalities issued a press release in which he strongly and consistently supported social inclusion. In his communication, he explained that he believed that the basic scenes of integration were educational and educational institutions, which were the first organised forums for cooperation and mutual understanding; I would say first institutionalized forms. The CXC of 2011 on national public education was adopted by the National Assembly on 16 December 2014. The 2014 CV on the amendment of the Act. a law which provides for the subsequent government decree allowing exceptions to be drawn up with particular regard to the prohibition of unlawful separation. Part of the National Creed of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, but the XXIX. Article 1 (1) also states that nationalities living with us are part of the Hungarian political community and constitute state-making factors. Article I (3) of the Fundamental Law provides that the limitation of fundamental rights is to be taken into account only in the light of the proportionality of necessity. Rules on fundamental rights and obligations are laid down by law. The fundamental right may be limited to the extent strictly necessary, proportionate to the objective pursued, in order to safeguard other fundamental rights or any constitutional value, while respecting the essential content of the fundamental right. Article 15 of the Fundamental Law The principle of equal treatment and the principle of equal opportunities are set out in paragraphs 1 to 2 of this Article. Everyone is equal before the law; we have heard it today. All people are legal. Hungary grants fundamental rights to all without discrimination, namely race, colour, gender, disability, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other situation. The 2003 CXXV on equal treatment and the promotion of equal opportunities Act III. The implementation of the requirement of equal treatment in certain areas will regulate employment, social security and health, housing, education and training, the use of goods and services. This bill 1. CXXV of 2003 on equal treatment and the promotion of equal opportunities The law concerns the regulation of education and training, of which paragraphs 28 (2a) and 2b) are added to the constitutional requirement for equal treatment in national education to be more effective and effective. The law is 28. In addition, paragraph 2 (b) clarifies that, in the case of the organisation of national education, the requirement of equal treatment is not infringed unless the organisation of education meets the following requirements under the conditions of paragraph 2: (a) the acquisition of knowledge under the basic curriculum is ensured at a standard generally valid in non-ethnic education and (b) nationality education meets the requirements laid down in the law on the rights of nationalities. The requirement of equal treatment covers all segments of education and education in the practice of public education on the basis of State-approved or prescribed requirements. It also covers teaching activities in educational institutions receiving normative support and in public education institutions which the State contributes to maintaining by releasing public burdens. In addition to the general tasks of public education, separate education organised on a nationality basis provides an additional service for its specific tasks in relation to nationality identity, culture, tradition and language. It is an objective expectation of nationality education that, in order to obtain the highest possible level of knowledge in the organisation of education and to ensure as much as possible the right to study as a constitutional fundamental right, national education should be at the same average level as public education, subject to the constitutional requirements of equal treatment. The achievement of state-sanctioned or State-supported requirements must be justified by nationality education. I would like to draw attention to the fact that I feel, and I think many of us feel, from the nationalities, that the legislative background on ethnic public education in Hungary is relatively good. Unfortunately, at times in practice we have difficulties in implementing them, such as that of the head of the institutions from the school managers, basically from the school district managers, or, where appropriate, we feel that the staff of the district are not always aware of the rights granted to nationalities by certain laws. I think it would be worth a separate story. On the basis of the bill, education organised separately on the basis of religious beliefs or nationality is considered to be lawful if it meets all the legal requirements of religious belief education and ethnic education at the same time. The 2011 CXC on national public education. Amendment to Act T/12366 In the legislative proposal No. 3, the bill follows the above points well. §2 of the Public Education Act - supplemented by the 2011 CXC on National Public Education. Act No 34/A Paragraph 2 states that if the 2003 CXXV on equal treatment and the promotion of equal opportunities. Law No. 28 Pursuant to paragraphs 2 to 2 (a) to 2b, an educational institution, class or kindergarten group shall be established which simultaneously provides education and education based on religious or other philosophical beliefs and nationality, at the same time complying with the provisions of this Act and the Law on the Rights of Nationalities, based specifically on religious or other philosophical beliefs and for the education of nationalities. The Parliament's Committee of Nationalities of Hungary supports the adoption of the bill. Hvala za posornost! Thank you for your attention.
u2017-05-05-76	Thank you very much for Erika Kissné Köles' speech on Slovenian ethnicity. I now give the floor to Congressman László Teleki for two minutes, MSZP. [[14.50]]
u2017-05-05-77	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I asked for an opportunity for two minutes because it is truly incomprehensible to me why Mrs Mónika Dunai or Minister of State does not have the effect of having Flórian Farkas here at the trial of such an item on the agenda, because that is exactly the area of the Prime Minister's office, and I am very sorry that he does not say how he sees the situation of Roma and Gypsies in Hungary improving their life in education. But even though Erika Kissné Köles said very nicely instead of Felix Farkas what he had to say, I think it should be here when we talk about gypsy students and the public education that concerns the Roma. So I thought it was very important for me to tell you this because you have to impress on me that it is not possible that someone is getting paid to deal with this area, and it is not at that item on the agenda. Of course, he may have rescued you, so I apologize, but you didn't tell me any of them had rescued you. The other thing that Csaba Gyüre said was my colleague. I think it is very important to clarify that children who go from below-average education to above-average education have no chance of doing so - I want to quote it precisely: they are unable to keep up with the educational system there. With this, I hope you were going to say, my fellow Member, that it is not the children who are responsible for not being able to pick up the pace, but the system that forced them into this situation. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's right.]] And that is exactly what segregation is all about, which the European Commission does not allow. If something is segmented, I do not think it is good and unacceptable, but in the case of what the spokeswoman has said, and Mr Csaba Gyüre has also said, in the event that the geographical location determines this issue, we cannot do anything, as there is only one thing, namely to raise the level of education to such a level that it is attractive to others, I would like to underline it once again, because if it is not, there will be slumping, then there will be exclusion, there will be segregation in the strict sense of the word. Therefore, I think it is very important that, yes, we should be concerned that, if such a situation arises, we can do nothing other than to put teachers' wages in a position that makes them teach there or make educational institutions so attractive in all areas that they are attractive to anyone. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-05-78	Thank you very much, Congressman Teleki. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, Fidesz.
u2017-05-05-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, am very sorry that there are quite a few of us here in the Chamber of this House in the debate on this bill. At the same time, in this debate, even though not so many of us have spoken to him, it is clear that this is an issue that affects everyone, not only here within the walls of Parliament, but it affects all Hungarian people, Hungarian people with good feelings, and I am interested in this subject. Moreover, different parties, different factions, have different views on this issue. So such a parliamentary debate could be the best way for each faction to express its own opinion. This has now been done by the lead speakers in the lead speaker's round, but at the same time by the presence, plus contributions and complementing of the other Members, I would have wanted in any way, and I would also be interested in the opinion of those independent Members and parties who are not participating in today's debate. This is a difficult and important issue. They are attacking the proposal from the left or not only the proposal itself, as the main speaker of the MSZP said that they agree with it in principle, but they feel that the subject is too soft if I take it right from László Teleki's words, so they may want to tighten up further in the field of equal opportunities or its practical application. What I'm saying is we don't have to blow our eyes off. The head speaker at the MSZP said that we should be ashamed or ashamed of ourselves. [[László Teleki: I did not say that!]] that this infringement procedure has been initiated by Brussels against Hungary. I don't think we have to blow our eyes off. What Hungary is doing across governments in the field of equal treatment and equal opportunities is not negligible and can also be said to be exemplary. We regulate the issue of equal treatment in Hungary at three levels, and the most important one has already been explained by the Secretary of State: in our Fundamental Law it is stated that discrimination can only take place as a maximum of positive discrimination; and Mr State Secretary has also named and highlighted the groups that are already protected under our Fundamental Law, and no distinction can be allowed. I think that this is the strongest, and everyone agrees with this, so I am not the only one who thinks that this is our strongest legislation, and if we lay the foundations here for equal opportunities and to prevent discrimination and discrimination of all kinds, then this is enough to guarantee that, if everyone adheres to it, then the legislation can go as everyone wishes. The second level is the Equal Treatment Act, which we have started today the general debate on its amendment, and on some points we are tightening or clarifying it. The third is the various specialized laws, of which the national law on public education is affected. So I think that our otherwise strict legislative system, which is beyond the European average at some points, is in place on this subject, we do not have to look down, we do not have to be ashamed, but if it can be improved, it can be clarified, supplemented, I think that it is our duty to do this. And Jobbik criticized the proposed bill - and they will not support it, they said - because it is a further tightening of the bill. So it's interesting to hear a little from the left that it's not so strict, it could be tougher, and from the right it's just the opposite that there's no need to modify it, there's no need for further tightening up. It's a shame that the only MEP from Jobbik, Csaba Gyüre, is no longer present. I, if I've taken it right from your words, they're using their non-voting to encourage us not to comply with the infringement procedure. I believe that this is a dangerous attitude, not only because of compliance with European Union legislation, but also in terms of promoting equal opportunities. We have heard accusations that we here, the Fidesz specifically and the KDNP are servers of Soros organizations at the time of filing and negotiating this law. I would like to note that this is not the case, we do not want to comply with the organisations led by the Soros oligarch, but we do not want to comply with the parties pulled by other oligarchs, we want to comply with the Hungarian people, the Hungarian countryside and the capital and the European Union legislation. We need to make a difference between the powers that EU legislation affects. The legislation currently under discussion is about equal opportunities and equal treatment. [[15.00]] These are not subjects of national sovereignty, but are European and even European values, but are important values common to the world. In these, we take the position on Fidesz's part that we want to meet these values in all respects, and that we want to comply with the European Union's legislation in this respect as well. It is dangerous not to take into account an infringement procedure. The other question to Csaba Gyüre was how we can reconcile this current amendment and that we want to comply with the infringement procedure in Brussels, by stopping Brussels now in the context of a national consultation. The government and the governing parties are running a campaign. If you were here, Csaba Gyüre, but I hope that you will read it in the minutes, or you may be following my comment on television now, there are two completely different things. As I said, the issue of equal opportunities represents European and world value. The issues that we are dealing with in the national consultation and in which we want to stop Brussels are issues that concern our national sovereignty and independence. These two are very separate. On these issues, therefore, in our tax policy, in our job creation benefits, in our employment policy or in our energy policy, we want to follow our own path and preserve our national independence. There is no obligation for us to give these up. If we live by the law of the European Union, by the law of the European Union, then there are some points that we must observe, and we must respect, and there are those in which we have freedom. And we want to stick to these rights, and we will stick to them in the future. Unfortunately, it is true that Brussels, even if it were in its interest, and even if it knows how EU legislation is addressed, would still like some countries not to comply with it. I would also like to say from here that sometimes Brussels says that we should not comply with the European Union's obligations to protect, for example, the Schengen borders, but we do, because we are playing it clean, and we are also complying with the laws of the European Union, which Brussels does not want us to comply with. If some EU leaders do not want us to defend Hungarian and European cultures, we will still do so. And if some of the European leaders do not want us to protect security, the security of Hungary and Europe, we will still do it, for ourselves, for the Hungarian people, for Europe as a whole and for the European Union. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with many other things that have been said in today's debate, although they do not belong closely to the bill we are discussing today. It might be worth discussing in other circles. So, indeed, the responsibility of teachers is enormous. Not the present law will guarantee that Hungarian teachers will develop students as they should, but the individual attitude, further training, professional knowledge and competence of Hungarian teachers will guarantee this. I think that we need to trust the Hungarian teachers and trust in the work that the government is doing in the area of the transformation of higher education and the transformation of pedagogical education. These proposals in the Committee on Culture, when we are discussing the subject, I will also interpret the speeches from the opposition. So we can agree on many things that implementation may often be a more cardinal issue than the law itself. I think these two are working together. So we must make laws by which schools, organisations and various state institutions will be able to meet the requirements of equal opportunities and equal treatment for the benefit of the Hungarian people so that it can benefit everyone. With respect, I would like to ask my fellow Members to consider what has been said and what needs to be said in the general debate and then in the detailed debate. This law, I think, is irresponsible to vote off. Thank you very much, Mr President, Honourable Secretary of State, honourable Members. [[Dr. Pál Völner applauds.]]
u2017-05-05-80	Thank you, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I give the floor to MEP László Teleki, MSZP.
u2017-05-05-81	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to address Mónika Dunai that I did not say that they should be ashamed of themselves. So I would like to say that I have said exactly and I would clarify that we should not have waited for the infringement procedure, but that we should have heard the opposition's voice, because if they had heard it, we should not now comply with the European Union and bring this law here, so that this part of segregation is handled by the government - so I think it is very important. Besides, there are a lot of things that I think you've told me, and we've told a lot of people what we think. Today, it is not possible to see whether in the national Roma strategy or in the European Roma framework strategy you would ask the opposition what our opinion is about what is in the framework strategy, both, or what its timetable looks like from that framework strategy, whether the European Union or the domestic Roma framework strategy. I would like to tell you that, despite the fact that we have seen the money, that it has resources, as I have indicated in the scholarships, it is just not visible how Roma scholarships work. It can't be seen that the bridge to the work is in effect, because Florian Farkas is attacked daily by stealing that money, that 1.6 billion forint. So believe me, there may be resources in the work you've started, but they don't make it visible to society. It can also be concluded that Gypsyism in Hungary does not feel that it is a promotion. Please, and I beg you, let's go out to the farm and see what's going on. Here you can say nice words, you can say very good sentences about integration and the elimination of segregation, but if you look at the disadvantaged regions I was talking about, you can see that the only thing that makes the system work is the teachers. If they weren't dedicated educators, then there wouldn't be a system to talk about the child going into the educational institution because there wouldn't be anyone to run it. It's not the KLIK, or I don't know who's running it anymore, it's not because of the government office, it's because of the teachers who are determined to go in there every day, they're overpowering to get some kind of knowledge from the Roma children. So for my part, we thank them, on behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party, and it is because of them that the system is still working. However, the government's lack of dialogue must be seen in his eyes that he has not done so. I always tell you when something good happens because you see progress in kindergarten parts. There you can see that compulsory kindergarten care is an important part of the Roma in Hungary, and in it I will highlight either the person of Zoltán Balog or the whole government, because it will start an important process that can lead to higher education and can mean break-out points that no one else can provide. Therefore, it is not possible to accuse the Hungarian Socialist Party or myself of just telling them what doesn't work, but I also said that I think the scholarship is good, but it is not transparent. I haven't told you about the Roma dorm, which I think is good, Mr. Secretary of State. I didn't talk about the János Arany talent program, which I think is good, although it also needs to be reviewed, because now much more money goes into it than there are students in the system, and you can see it every day if you look at it carefully, that there are resources in the Arany János talent management network, but they can't even catch children with lassos. [[15.10]] What's the reason you're not going into this program? But the possibility is cruelly good, it's excellent. So I think we can solve these issues together, and I said that if you had listened to opposition voices, perhaps the infringement procedure would not have been implemented. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-05-05-82	Thank you very much, Congressman Teleki. I give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity, notary.
u2017-05-05-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to say one thing, to ask you, Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of Fidesz, the Secretary of State, who I hope will answer. Is it possible to solve a problem - because we are not really talking about a problem anymore, so we are not talking about this amendment specifically, but we are talking about segregation in general - can we solve something if we do not know it? That's my question. I suggested that this be assessed, that there are scientific methods, and when I heard from the congresswoman that she offered to bring opposition opinions to the committee, I would like to ask her to do so. Although I myself have raised this in the Committee on Culture several times, I expect the congresswoman to raise this proposal, which is a survey of segregation in Hungary. Until we see this, we don't even know what we're talking about, we can only have ideas about the problem, I agree. If we don't go out in the field, if they don't go out in the field, at least give them a scientific assessment of what's going on. It is just that the Member mentioned very strongly the responsibility of teachers. I think that after seven years of government, we should be very careful about the responsibility of teachers. Of course, it is big, but it is also a very big responsibility of the government. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-05-84	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Pál Völner, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2017-05-05-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I thank you for the comments, because all the contributions have shown responsibility for this issue. Thank you very much for the opinion of the committee on nationality, which has pointed out practical problems, but the spokeswoman has been able to indicate that this amendment does not fundamentally affect nationality rights and does not mean harm to them. At the same time, the comments also revealed that we are talking about a more complex problem than is specifically affected by this amendment itself, and perhaps it is also a problem that this type of approach from the EU side, which is about integration and segregation, is once again inaccurate, because integration has an assimilation interpretation, which would be totally unacceptable from the ethnic side. Perhaps it would be more appropriate to talk about a kind of emancipation and the kind of equal opportunities that this amendment provides for, since it states that this kind of education, this kind of school, must provide the same quality of the basic curriculum as is available in general forms of education. As regards the employment leg, I can only say that the government can demonstrate its commitment to employment not only in rhetoric but also in figures. As regards the issue of Roma settlements, and others, we know that the programme exists, we know the commitment of the Minister; I do not think that the Member in this area doubts that he is paying maximum attention to this area. I would like to point out to Mr Ikotity, and to those who spoke about the infringement procedure, that we are talking about amending a 2003 law, so the fact is that, on the basis of the texts before entry into the EU and the period passed, the Union concludes that certain amendments are necessary. I would rather be talking about clarification, because there is no way to show past harm to equal opportunities in the form that some people have visualized, and indeed, these geographical determinisms, where it is difficult to talk about segregation in a given area, if we are talking only about Roma children or a minority settlement, which on one side can be perceived as having a less problem in the field of practice, let us say, where a minority school can be maintained by the minority self-government, but on the other hand, if we are talking about a gypsy or Roma village, then we could actually talk about segregation or rather social and social problems. So it is not so much possible to approach this from the side of the education problem, and to deal with it, I say, is a much more complex problem and can be solved together and with the use of many tools. Congressman Ikotity has mentioned why we are in this phase now. Since the submission, there has been an ongoing consultation with the Commission, without which I believe that we could not safely talk about it without, where appropriate, making a law that is again not acceptable under the Brussels rules. Again, I am saying that we may have made careful and effective progress on this issue. Thank you very much once again for your activity, and thank you for the floor, and I will ask for the adoption of the legislative amendment proposal. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-05-86	Thank you very much, Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. No one applied for a post-meeting speech. I thank you for your work, the Parliament will resume its meeting next week at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 3:17 p.m.]]
