u2017-10-04-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 7th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that there will be notaries Loránt Hegedűs and Attila Gelencsér in the chair of this meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, A joint general debate on the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputies in 2016 presented by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and on the proposal for a decision adopting it, presented by the Judicial Committee, will follow. Report B/14301. and the proposal for a decision H/17398. received by the representatives. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, Allow me to pay tribute to Mr László Székely, Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, Dr Szalayné Dr. Erzsébet Sándor; Dr. Gyula Bándi, Deputy Commissioner. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr László Székely, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the rapporteur of the report, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor.
u2017-10-04-1	Mr. Speaker! Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much for the opportunity to add an oral supplement to the report prepared by our office, as you have been accustomed to in previous years. It is very important to me, and I am pleased that the experience of the past years has confirmed that it is important for the Parliament to have a dialogue on the report, which is, in fact, a map of Hungary's human rights in a given year. It's a very lonely genre to be an ombudsman. It's very rare to have the kind of reflection that's related to the operation of the office. We have a very close relationship and we have a professional discussion with the recipients of our reports on these matters, but they obviously do not feel competent to comment on the operation of the office itself. The reason why we care about all the reflections in the Justice Committee and here in Parliament's plenary is because it is an important feedback on whether what we are doing is going in the right, right, right direction. I will not use the half-hour time frame, but I would just like to tell you a few numbers about the operation of the office, as regards the operation in 2016. We received 8399 submissions from our office, which is an impressive number; otherwise it is stable, so there is no significant difference from previous years. This is impressive because it shows that the office's social prestige, its reputation is quite high. So there's confidence in the office. Of these 8399 cases, 7426 were completed; let's call it a transfer from the previous year, this number is decreasing. This relates to the fact that last year the budget has already provided additional resources to the Office, which was necessary because the tasks entrusted to us have increased steadily since 2014. Our most expensive new function is the operation of the national preventive mechanism, resulting from the adoption of the UN Convention against Torture, OPCAT, which is an additional protocol, and where it appointed the Ombudsman himself to conduct the national preventive mechanism. As you know, this means that all detention places in the country have to show up unexpectedly to my staff and conduct a full screening of whether there is inhumane, degrading treatment of those detained there. By the way, there are 4,000 such places in Hungary, so it is a very high number. So we're done with 7426 cases. These cases can be divided into about 92 groups of cases, but obviously I'm not going to list that right now. After all, there are ten main types of cases that will emerge before us if we look at them. There's been an interesting change in the case mix here. We've received 2640 applications for asylum. I must immediately add that this is only apparent because the international organisation Amnesty International allowed the Ombudsman to contact the Ombudsman in a refugee case with a single click on the interface provided to interested parties and asked the Ombudsman to review the border protection system introduced from 16 September 2015. Of these, there were five Hungarian submissions, all the others from abroad. We have, of course, processed or continuously processed and answered these submissions. If we look at the composition of the substantive issues, we can see that 726 submissions that have turned to us on social, labour, education or health issues; 711 in which the petitioner raised objections to civil matters, pensions, health insurance or enforcement. Stable number for years, last year's submissions relating to the execution of sentences or the operation of the police, of which a total of 688 were last year. We had 439 legislative opinions and a request for constitutional criticism of legislation. The public interest announcement increases year after year, and now we're at 367 cases. This is about the fact that the public-interest applicant, if he considers that the authorised or obliged body has not adequately examined his public-interest notification, can come to us with a complaint, and we will try to force him to do so and force the data subject to do so. Children's rights, family law, guardianship and janitorial issues were represented in 336 cases, and finally, financial institutions' tax and tax cases were reported as cases 227. I will not bore you with this statistics further, but let me present you with a very important indicator: we made 520 recommendations in 2016 and in 382 of these cases the recipient accepted. In a total of 41 cases, the recipient refused. Excuse me, that's a nine-tenth ratio, which is a very impressive number, if you think about it. It is true that we have 97 cases in which there is still a follow-up communication, so it is not yet possible to know the position of the recipient there, but if we look at the fact that in 382 cases it was accepted and only rejected in 41, then I must say that this office is functioning fairly and that even the reports in which we made a recommendation raised points of appreciation for the stakeholders. [[9.10]] Overall, I have to say - and that concludes my words - that it was an average year 2016. No significant, substantial differences can be detected in relation to trends in other years. What I said last year - and I am going to repeat this - is the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, in addition to being a lawyer for the people, which is natural, I think the most important function of the development of the legal system is the continuous fine-tuning of legislation, so that it is smoothing together and creating harmony between different aspects of legislation. The complaints that come to us always point to this in a significant way. If, therefore, there is a lack of dysfunction, discrepance, consistency, then those submissions are in our possession in a matter of seconds and it turns out that somewhere the legislator has done something wrong. The correction of these, in principle, seems to me to be one of the most important, constantly emerging demands and a function that the Ombudsman has to fulfil. I would very much like to thank you for your attention, and I really will not take advantage of the 30-minute time frame. I'm more interested in answering all the comments or criticisms you're making about the operation of my office or my office. So thank you very much for your attention. I'm looking forward to the suggestions. Thank you.
u2017-10-04-2	Thank you, Mr László Székely, for the oral complement of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Demeter, rapporteur for the Justice Committee, rapporteur for the motion for a decision.
u2017-10-04-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Commissioner and dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2011 CXI on the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. Law 40. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, Dr. László Székely submitted to Parliament a report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2016. The Court of Justice, as committee responsible for tasks and powers, discussed the report at its meeting on 18 September 2017 and supported its adoption. During the hearing, the committee examined the Fundamental Rights Commissioner Act 40. The requirements of paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 of this Article shall be fulfilled. The report presents the fundamental rights protection activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the rights of children, the interests of future generations, the rights of nationalities living in Hungary, as well as the activities of the most vulnerable social groups, in particular the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities, in accordance with the legal provisions. On this basis, the Judicial Committee is the B/14301. Report No 84 on house regulations In the proposal for a resolution submitted pursuant to § 2 (2) of the Act, the Parliament is recommended to accept it. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the report before us, the Committee could conclude that the professional objectives of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputies in 2016 were again achieved after one year, supported by the following data and facts. As stated in the report, in 2016 - and Commissioner has just mentioned this - 8399 complaints came to the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, which is about the average of recent years. It was nice to hear that over 7,400 cases have been completed. And Commissioner pointed out at the committee meeting that 520 recommendations were made in 2016 in the framework of 140 reports, and only 41 were rejected by the recipient by not agreeing with it. I also believe that this figure shows the authority of the office and its operation, that it has reception skills and prestige the Ombudsman's findings, which can not only be for me but also for all of us. Under the law on the publication of an optional protocol to the Convention against Torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights acted as a national preventive mechanism. With regard to the National Preventive Mechanism, OPCAT, the Optional Protocol to the UN Conventions, I would like to draw attention to the fact that throughout 2016, the wide range of professional relations and experiences of the national preventive mechanism continued to expand and, most importantly, provided information on the functioning of the Hungarian mechanism to international organisations that monitor its activities. The dissertation of his first annual report has taken place. The international reactions to the annual report were commendable and the Agency's staff tried to disseminate the annual report widely at international level. As I mentioned earlier, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights is the Ajbt in 2016. continued attention has been paid to matters concerning the protection of children's rights, the rights of persons with disabilities and the rights of vulnerable groups, in accordance with its relevant provisions. The Commissioner launched four priority official inquiries in the Annual Strategy on the Rights of the Child launched at the beginning of 2015, three of which are presented in the 2016 report. These reports are related to the practice of ensuring post-registration, analysing the situation of media literacy and education at home, and to the system of ensuring organised catering for children in need during school breaks. I would also like to draw attention to the role of the Ombudsman as a result of his function as regards the opinion of the draft legislation, which was the opinion of 212 draft legislation last year. This figure is 18 percent less than in the previous year, and I think one of the possible explanations for this is that in the reporting period less legislation has been made. [[9.20]] In addition, the Ombudsman initiated an amendment to a law or an overview of the legal environment in general, in about 40 percent of his reports published in 2016, in 59 cases. I think that we all have to thank you for this and ask the Bureau for further cooperation. Under the Fundamental Law, the Constitutional Court shall review the consistency of the legislation with the Fundamental Law at the initiative of the Commissioner. With regard to the pre-Curia standard control initiatives, the Act on the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights provides that if the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights notices that the municipal decree causes maladministration in relation to fundamental rights by conflicting with other laws, the Commissioner may initiate a review of the consistency of municipal regulations at the Curia. Last year, he initiated an investigation of fundamental rights concerns at the Constitutional Court and at the Mansion. At the meeting of the Judicial Committee, Dr. Szalayné dr. Sándor Erzsébet Sándor tried to draw the attention of the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality to the case of cooperation between local authorities and national authorities on the Ombudsperson's report. It can be found in the report that the data subjects objected to the fact that, by the way, the obligation imposed by law and imposed on the local government was not fulfilled by that municipality or provided for personal or material conditions. In one case or another, results were achieved, so the mayor and the municipality took note of the fact that they saw the situation and changed the situation. However, it proved necessary to monitor the area in particular in 2016, which is a special way for the Office to explore a particular type of case. As a result, I am confident that we will receive more accurate information in 2017 following a wider orientation. At the same time, I would add that the support for nationalities is increasing gradually, and in next year's budget this amount will increase to many times. Ladies and gentlemen, In the light of the report and the experience of the last year, I have the courage to say that the Commissioner and his deputies of fundamental rights carry out their duties at a high professional level, including in detail in their report on the smallest issues. In the light of what has just been said, I would like to ask you to support the adoption of the proposal for a decision and also the adoption of the report. And I personally and on behalf of the Fidesz-KDNP fraction thank you for the work you have done. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-04-4	Thank you, Congressman Demeter. I will ask if Mrs Secretary of State wishes to speak on behalf of the Government. [[Dr. Mariann Water East: No, thank you.]] Madam Secretary says no. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the Romanian ethnic advocate Kresta Traján, who presents the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translates it into Hungarian. You have the floor.
u2017-10-04-5	Onorată Adunare Națională, Onorate Domnule Președinte, Doamnelor și Dominilor! Dear Parliament, Mr President, Ladies and Gentlemen, At the meeting of the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary on 25 April 2017, as a related committee, the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Law 22. Pursuant to Article 2 (2) of the Act, Dr. Szalayné Dr. Sándor discussed the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in the presence and information of Deputy Commissioner Erzsébet 2016 B/14301. A report and a resolution has been drawn up which took into account the views of national national minority self-governments. In line with its nature, our Commission stressed that the Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of National Rights considered monitoring, evaluating and monitoring the enforcement of legislation in the interests of nationalities in Hungary as a priority in the reporting period, as well as a significant role in legislation affecting nationalities, and its active involvement in our efforts to modernise the law on the rights of nationalities in Hungary. The structure of the report was defined by the Organisational and Operational Regulations and the Tasks and Powers of the Fundamental Rights Commissioner Act. The institutional framework and organisational conditions did not substantially change compared to the previous report on the year 2015, while the number of national minority law cases increased to 272 in 2016 and the number of national minority programmes increased to 219. Unalterably high, about 60 percent of cases involving Roma nationality are mostly social, housing, primarily equal treatment issues or problems, as well as issues affecting the functioning of Roma ethnic authorities. As the number of cases affecting the Roma community is roughly the same as in the previous year, the increase in the total number of cases can be explained by the fact that the other ethnic communities have received significantly more signals for which they needed and could be addressed. In cases from the non-Roma community, in which the highest proportion is represented by cases involving all nationalities, particular attention was paid to certain specific issues relating to the enforcement of national cultural autonomy. Often recurring topics are the different aspects of national education and several issues related to the operation of national authorities, the tendering system. The number of criminal cases increased compared to the previous year. This category includes cases in which suspected or actual irregularities have been reported in connection with the operation of the police and the prison institutions; however, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights cannot also examine judicial proceedings. Public service-related cases are also reported, which are some of the behavioural problems identified by the petitioners in the use of mostly means of transport and healthcare services, mainly related to equal treatment. There have been two major issues and part of the comprehensive study is being carried out together by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputy in charge of the protection of nationality rights. One is a study on ethnic education and ethnicity students, which is now closed in 2017, and the other is a study on ethnic media, which is a very complex, very diverse and sensitive subject, but for which virtually all ethnic communities have signaled. [[9.30]] The Deputy Commissioner for Nationality drew our committee's attention to a number of other priority cases. One of these is the unevenness, maladministration and, in extreme cases, the occurrence of absolute negative behaviour on cooperation, in particular by local authorities, which are obliged to ensure the technical and operational conditions of the national authorities. The other priority issue, which is important because it relates to national education and education, is the rules of delegation to the institutional council by the national authorities and other national minority organisations, which they have been able to conclude with a report, and on which the necessary legislative change could be accepted by the House following a legislative proposal from our ethnic committee. The introduction in 2016 of the so-called "conventional resolutions" presented in the report, which are not made in the form of classic, traditional, comprehensive reports and investigations, should be highlighted. At the level of deputy commissioners, they seek to provide methodological assistance in specific cases where there is no infringement or it may not necessarily be found, but there is maladministration. The resolution seeks to contribute to the management of such situations by providing principles. Based on the details of the report, but also on our experience, it is important to stress that in 2016 the number of national minority programmes increased significantly to 219. With the greatest dynamics, it has grown into international issues, professional forums and personal professional discussions, as well as events. The proportion of secretarial programmes involving all nationalities, 51 percent and an increase in the proportion of nationalities and cultural events were outstanding. The information provided by the Deputy Commissioner to our committee has shown that it also plays an important role in international activity that interest in Hungary and its minority system has increased greatly in the activities of international institutions in recent years, such as the specific position of the area of nationality, the institutional system and, in particular, the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality, as it does not exist elsewhere. According to the report and our experience, there was an increase in the presence of Deputy Commissioner for Nationality in the media in 2016, mainly due to information on county visits and various reports and resolutions. There is good press coverage in the case of ethnic cultural events, as well as commemorative days. At the same time, it is regrettable that national media generally report less frequently on national minority events, making it more difficult for them to reach wider social circles with the kind of activity that national minority communities and defenders of their rights are doing. It is also important to mention that their Facebook page was launched in March 2016 to provide information on all relevant events and events, and then last autumn the English language interface, Twitter, was launched. I find it particularly remarkable on the subject of the media that it was published on the occasion of the Rio Olympics last year, thus making it known to the public who were the famous Hungarian Olympic heroes who took on their ethnic origins. In summary, the Committee took note of its approval that, in addition to the 50 percent increase in the number of cases of nationality in 2016, the Deputy Commissioner and his staff carried out several comprehensive investigations, continued the visits to the county and organised significant ethnic cultural events in the Office. The Committee took note of the fact that Dr. Szalayné Dr. Erzsébet Sándor elected Deputy Commissioner as a permanent independent expert of the International Advisory Committee of the Council of Europe on the Framework Convention on the Protection of Minorities. Based on the report and last year's practice, the Committee has assessed the cooperation between the Deputy Commissioner's Office and the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary as meaningful and effective. On this basis, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary supports the adoption of the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2016 at the plenary session. Thank you very much for your attention. Vă mulțumesc pentru atenția cu care m-ați onorat. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-04-6	Thank you for the speaker's speech. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech by the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr László Teleki, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-10-04-7	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr Parliamentary Commissioner, They're replacements. The Hungarian Socialist Party, as he said at the meeting of the Judicial Committee, wants to support the report, primarily because it feels and shows the professional work they do. Secondly, because they are trying to do everything they can to ensure that human rights are enforced in Hungary, including national and ethnic minority rights. I have said many times, whether in Parliament or in committee, that one of the most important things for me is how the rights of nationality are going, and how the situation of the Roma minority is going in Hungary. It is therefore very important to me how the system of the operation of the minority self-governments can evolve and how it can be synchronized with the functioning of the local government and, of course, with the functioning of the population and with its cooperation. In recent times, you can see that everything is beginning to disintegrate, not because of your fault. Cooperation between local authorities and society is beginning to break up because there is no system, there is no hierarchy in which to see who is responsible and how the tasks are carried out. I say this because if we look at national governments, including the Roma minority self-government, we can see that in the last few years, and if we look at only 2016 linked to your report, we can see that there is total chaos. There was total chaos in the National Roma Municipality, which is not good. It is not good for the country, it is not good for the Roma, and it is not good for the non-Roma, because they are looking for and finding a scapegoat in this case. Therefore, I think that everything must be done to ensure that the system of operation, which is otherwise well regulated by the law, is tried to enforce it. I know it's not your job again, but to draw attention, make recommendations, yes. Therefore, I think it would be important to give a recommendation to the head of the national self-government, to discuss with you or with other institutions how the situation of Roma in Hungary can improve in terms of integration. It has not happened and it is not happening so that it can be seen that there is a shift in the National Roma Municipality and a cooperation that will bring peace to the whole society. Of course, I could go further, even though there's no financial problem. You can see that the masses of resources reach the national government. It's a different thing, and we wouldn't go along with how those funds were used, well or less well, or they didn't use it at all to operate or to support the funds they were given. There was nothing here primarily for Roma workers. [[9.40]] However, I would not like to talk about this, because this concerns another item on the agenda, but in the regional authorities, i.e. the county Roma minority self-governments, and not just the Roma minority self-governments, it is possible to see and perceive that this territorial level does not have an owner, because county municipalities are so empty that it is not possible to say that all the material and all the personal conditions are in order to make sure that the regional county Roma minority self-government can function. So it can be said that it is not possible to see in Hungary today that regional ethnic authorities exist. I would also ask the Ombudsman, the Parliamentary Commissioner, to influence his recommendation to address these issues at local and regional levels, because if not, there is no local, regional representation of minority self-governments. But there are also anomalies at the local level. Although the situation there is a little better than at the national or regional level, because because of the narrowness of the place, local authorities and national authorities often have to cooperate there. Some work very, very professionally and well together, and this is due to the head of the local government, the mayor, and not least to the local notaries, because they operate and maintain this whole area. I highlighted this by thanking them because there are also areas at local level, and there are also settlements where there is absolutely no willingness to help, nor to show the law on which the minority self-government should operate; neither the legal nor the physical, personal condition is guaranteed to enable the minority self-governments to operate at local level. This is not your fault, I say again, but I would ask you to make recommendations so that relations between notaries, municipalities and national authorities can be improved in the next period. Why is that important? Many times we say that the inclusion of Roma in education and employment is very important. However, those extracurricular catching-ups and talent care that we rightly expect - Roma and not Roma are rightfully expected - cannot work if there is no system that is transparent and eligible. Therefore, it is very, very important for the Roma in Hungary, but I also think that it is in the interests of the country that national minority self-governments, which have been established, in the first place, to try to promote education and culture. Today, very few local minority self-governments can take on and do this. Therefore, I think it is very important to pay attention to this. On the subject of the budget, however, I do not agree with my fellow Member, Mr Demeter, that he has increased a great deal. Indeed, it has increased in terms of trying to transfer resources to a task base rather than to operate, which I have no problem with and I have no dispute with, but it is because, for example, in relation to task-based support, the national governments are now collecting signatures that the point system is not right. The distribution mechanism that lives today, at the moment, is no longer applicable, because it is not awarded on the basis of objective decisions, but on the basis of political and subjective decisions in many cases. Therefore, I think that if we want the national authorities to obtain the task-based support in such a way that they actually receive the source after the work and activity they have done, or they are getting their advance, then we need to redefine the point system, because the only thing we can see is that there are local governments, ethnic authorities, and I am talking mainly about Roma ethnic authorities, where they have not done work, but they have laid down on paper a very large scale what they would do, what they have done. The source will be added, because the point system is perfect, but its implementation has not been detected by the settlement or the population. Therefore, I think that it is very much necessary to reshape the points systems. Once again, I think I have a debate with the money in terms of how the transfer or transfer of funds to the national authorities will take place. I am not arguing with your size, because there is indeed a visible rise, but not in the operating budget, but in the financing of other programmes, which is not a problem. I would like to say two more sentences about the budget. I think that with the basic budget they receive from local or, say, local authorities, there is little to do, there is no way to work with them, and it cannot be expected, there is no requirement that either the notary of the settlement, or the body of representatives or the population of the national minority self-government, because when we talk about a few hundred thousand forints in relation to the operating budget of a local minority self-government, it is not possible to say that we expect a job that can be one of the cornerstones of social integration. Not because we know that without money, weapons, steeds, you can't win battles, wars. Therefore, national authorities are not able to implement very, very breakthrough programmes either. Once again, this is accompanied by a certain task-based support that can be used to show something, but that's not all. Last but not least, I would like to say two points that I would like to put to the attention of the Ombudsman and his colleagues: civil affairs in Hungary are becoming completely impossible. I think that there is a great deal to be done in civil matters and to make recommendations in order to maintain civil courage in Hungary. We do not see the civil courage today; we cannot see it because we believe that many times, depending on political affiliation, the resources that would otherwise go to civilians for their work are allocated. In this, I think there is something to be done again so that their independence can be maintained by civilians. Independence, I think, is the essence of many democratic pillars, and it is especially important for civilians. Therefore, I can only ask the Ombudsman, the Parliamentary Commissioner, to give effective attention to civilians, because I do not think that without this we can go ahead and build democracy. Last and last but not least, with one thought, the health situation of the Roma: you can see, either from your surveys and from your visits, that the health status of the Roma is catastrophic. All I can say is that this is due to employment and health care, which we are not paying attention to and the current government is not paying attention to. I would also ask them to be able to try to start health prevention by allowing Roma living in gypsy farms today and having nearly 120,000 inhabitants in gypsy farms to change their living situation by providing housing conditions and improving the employment situation. Keeping Roma in public employment is not enough, which is a very important tool to earn wages with work, a very important tool. But it can be said that this is not going to pay the country in the long term, because the only thing that can be achieved is that we condemn that group of people to social aid. Therefore, if we want the 120,000 people out of the extreme poverty they are in and the state of health that we can see there, then we have something to do together, the government, the Ombudsman and, of course, me, as opposition representatives, to put an end to the situation that is there, because without a new Hungary, we cannot build a new democratic society. Therefore, we have a shared responsibility in whether those 120,000 people will remain in extreme poverty or if we can bring them out. Thank you very much for your attention. As I said, on behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party, I thank the Parliamentary Commissioner and his alternates for their work. The Hungarian Socialist Party supports the adoption of the report. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2017-10-04-8	Thank you, Congressman Teleki. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-10-04-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry if KDNP hasn't spoken to him or this hasn't been submitted in advance. I thought they'd come after the MSZP, but the point is, here's the opportunity and it's our turn to share our thoughts with the Honourable Parliament. I, too, would like to welcome the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputies. In the debate on the Judicial Committee, when we discussed this report, we had the opportunity to clash our views on a few points. I told you then that the opposition, given its position, could never be satisfied. I see the huge work you're doing, so you have to admit that. [[9.50]] This can be seen from the account itself, a very thick, serious work, decorated with photographs. So we all see the importance of the Ombudsman's office and its operation. The Office and Mr László Székely should be thanked for all the work that has been done. Of course, we will try to add the aspects that might make us do it differently, or do it in a complementary way, or even a criticism to the Parliament and the Government. Here, too, given, let us say, factual findings regarding the opinion of the legislative proposals, it is critical that the government does not send these proposals in time, because in many cases we have seen that there are a lot of proposals to be heard. This is a very important job, and not only in the case of the Ombudsman, but also in the case of the prosecutor's office, in the case of the courts, in the case of the various professional chambers, this is an important task for the opinion to take place. For us, too, Members of Parliament, a very important feedback on what the Ombudsman says about a regulatory subject or what other bodies, independent bodies, say. When we develop our opinions, this can also be an important aspect. To do so, however, if we expect proper professional work, we need to give time. Time has to be given - if we are already discussing the report of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, let us leave it to this - for a professional opinion. I didn't see a statement, but I may have missed the average time to make professional opinions. If you take about a few days, a few weeks, a few months [[For signal:]] Two days, yeah, we got that answer right here, it's very short. Everyone can see that in two days, a bill cannot be considered in sufficient depth. Then I would not be envious here, and I must say that in such a situation I would not want to be from the point of view of László Székely and his colleagues, or the leaders of other bodies, since an opinion has to be written, because then no opinion has been received. If, on the other hand, one writes an opinion, it must be duly supported so that it is not possible to be involved later, since a reference may later be an opinion which is not sufficiently substantiated, or which is not sufficiently substantiated in the absence of time. Well, in this case, obviously, you have to put something on the table, but it's not gonna be like you've had it for a week or so. I think it's a minimum of eight days, and I think it's a very tight deadline, more like 15-30 days, which would be expected in this case. This would mean the adoption of legislation, appropriate legislation and the provision of appropriate feedback to the government. Of course, it would be best for this to happen at the stage of preparation of the law, and what is proposed to Parliament should be reviewed by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights at the meeting of the Government only if any amendments were to be made or if the amendments were ultimately added. So this is definitely a criticism to the government, but the opinion and the fact that this obviously means a very burdensome work in such a short time, thank you for that, and in the future we hope that there will be more time for that. Then, as far as the specific tasks are concerned, we say them year after year, and also in this report, I do not say that this is a less-explained, but a shorter point, the issue of ex post norm control. There is also a professional debate or parallel professional thinking between us. We would expect this to be a greater automation, since only a quarter of the Members of Parliament can now turn to the Constitutional Court. For this reason, the responsibility of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights is much greater, because in many cases not only the lawyer of the people, as Mr Székely said, but also the lawyer of the Members of Parliament should be able to do so if, say, only twenty Members wish to turn to the Constitutional Court. In many cases, signatures have been gathered and we have been able to turn to the Constitutional Court, but in other cases, it seems that a group of Members of Parliament may also need help. This also says a lot about Hungarian legislation, but that is the case. There are cases where, as I have seen from the investigations, it may be very common that legislation is a violation of fundamental rights when it comes to the existence of a fundamental right as defined in the Constitutional or Fundamental Law, but its opening or protection does not work not only because of the procedures of the institutions, but also simply because of the lack of legislation. I think that in these cases, too, it is safe and courageous to turn to the Constitutional Court. Then what I would like to point out is that there are a lot of individual, individual cases in the report before us. This is very important, because citizens who try to behave in accordance with the law, but who often bounce back to you, obviously assess their case, and it is important and useful for them. However, in terms of major social problems, we would also expect the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights to take on more and more in the package, and this will be more and more reflected in the Parliament, the government and politics, for example, as regards health problems, waiting lists. Again, I may have missed that in the long account. I couldn't find this separately, though I was looking for it. These are all things which, even in the case of a waiting list, I think that a waiting time too long may be detrimental to the fundamental right to health and proper care, of course in extreme cases. I know that this concerns systems, and I know that this has financial implications, but I still feel that somewhere between the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his office it would have to do with them. I also said at the committee meeting that, on the one hand, it is a good thing that the government takes two thirds of the signal. I said that there was still one third, which I do not think was a legitimate sign, because knowing the work done, that one-third or most of it is a legitimate sign. I have received the answer - a third of which was not fulfilled by the government - before the committee, which I can also partially accept is that they are usually due to financial reasons, so that the government should put money into certain systems so that it can guarantee fundamental rights. Although I would add, it is harder for me to accept this reference on the part of the government, since certain fundamental rights require money. But, of course, if I look at it from the point of view of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, then obviously implementation or enforcement is a much harder task here. Otherwise, if there were, or if there were, one third - because there are certain - areas that can be resolved by amending legislation, we would very much expect the government to do so within a short period of time and to carry out the signals that are coming towards them. Then, at the committee meeting, a number of specific cases were raised, involving groups of cases. Some of the answers we received were that they did not come before the Commissioner - this was the illicit acquisition of data - and that they often did. For example, the municipality of Csokonyavisonta came to the fore with regard to waste prices. I don't know if this case has been closed or whether the decision has been sent. Thank you very much, if you will address it in your reply, or I think it is clear that you have been sent to see what results have been achieved. These are typical situations, and the reason I mention it here is when the citizen feels powerless, he can't do much against a municipality, he feels that, let's say, a fee is levied on him, which is not justified. Whether this is justified in this case will be revealed, but in many cases it was not justified. We've seen this through previous procedures, and they've done so, and they've been involved in these matters. [[10.00]] This is a good feeling, and it affects financial matters in addition to a good feeling in a given citizen. Here, perhaps, the smoothness or shortening of lead times may be what I can suggest. I don't know if it's gonna take more money, more staff to close these cases faster. In any case, this one-year lead time in this case may seem long to me, knowing that there were delays in correspondence. The illegal acquisition of data, although not in front of you, has since tried to tighten and regulate it in a law, but if the proposal that is in front of Parliament is adopted, it may still violate serious fundamental rights, since, for example, the Cand camera in the women's toilet of a shopping centre will still not be a crime. Based on the results of the study. I hope that we will resolve this in this House with amendments and that it will no longer come up once it is adopted. But if it is adopted in this way, it will have a significant impact on fundamental rights, and I think that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights could also have something to do with it. I have 15 minutes until the end, don't I, Mr. President? [[The president says yes.]] I'm trying to cut it short. Many thoughts arise about such a long account. What appears in part is enforcement cases. Looking at the report, they dealt with the anomalies that could occur during the implementations. I would also suggest a more comprehensive investigation. Experience has shown that, in particular, the independent judicial enforcement system has produced a large number of fundamental rights violations practices and that complaints within the system are virtually impossible. Usually, when the executive faculty, which has been ordered to supervise the executives, is called upon to file a complaint, it is immediately sent to the court, they are told to make an enforcement objection. It costs money, you have to hire a lawyer, you have to pay the fee. By the way, I also met a specific person who beat the slate so long that the complaint should be recorded in one of these places, and that's not the point, but in the executive faculty, it turned out that the printer and the computer weren't even slammed together, it wasn't installed. So in that system, that printer and that computer certainly didn't record, print, and sign too many complaints. So I would put the complaint system, or even the handling of complaints, under a more thorough control within the judicial executive faculty, because it cannot be pushed to court, and it cannot, as it is, oblige everyone to proceed to court for tens of thousands of forints, moreover, people who are completely out of funds or run out of resources. So I can raise this as a suggestion, although, as I said, it includes serious problems with the implementation system and the implementing rules, systemic problems. Maybe something similar can be read in the material. I have repeatedly asked the government to take an effective step in this. We will continue to do so in the future. But it would be very good if the office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, to say the least, came upon both the independent bailiffs and the executives, as I said, to deal with their complaints. As far as movable property is concerned, the specific issue was whether or not the property left in the property will be subject to regulation. I don't know if this has worked out since then. I am pleased that if the Government or Commissioner has given me an answer, I do not know whether this has been changed legally at the appropriate level. There's a lot to talk about, but I think these are the main points. I can see you've taken notes, Commissioner, so we're gonna get the points right. We hope that we can read more about them in the next year's report. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-10-04-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Here are the further speeches from the other representatives, if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. No further comments were received. The joint general debate is closed. The final words of the report and the authors of the proposal for a decision will now take place. I will ask Mr László Székely, Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. László Székely says yes.]] Then let's wait here for the pulpit officer.
u2017-10-04-11	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. I can tell Mr László Teleki that, of course, Roma have been a key focus in terms of health, education, integrated education and so on. It's still gonna happen. Our options are, of course, finite. So we do not have an unlimited working time limit, from which we can always reflect on all problems immediately, but we are aware of the seriousness of the situation, and we will continue to live with very professional humility and attention in the future. I thank Gábor Staudt very much for these ideas. That's what I was thinking at the beginning. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Thank you.]] Let me make a little clarification, though. Not one third were not accepted: 41 out of 520 recommendations were rejected by the recipient. It's a different ratio. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: They couldn't do it.]] Yes, I cannot say yet whether, after adoption, the recipient will indeed turn his legislative task into action, let us say. There were times when we experienced three or four years later that although he promised, he did nothing, and the same problem happened again. That is why there are follow-ups, which is why there are studies where we are looking at whether our recommendations have actually been met. Thank you very much for the idea, there is no reason to launch an own-initiative inquiry into the effectiveness and effectiveness of handling complaints in the executive staff. I must add that the establishment of the executive faculty has significantly reduced complaints against executors compared to previous ones. So I see positive developments in this area. By the way, they're very cooperative, and I have to add that, while before, the executor didn't respond for months. This is also an answer to the delay in cases. Yes, if I understand the information correctly, you said, Deputy Commissioner, that this particular trash regulation has been condemned, and since then, I believe it is in the mail, or it may already have been received by those involved. The length of these tests is often because we do not get an answer. We must seek the opinion of all parties involved in this matter, the conflict. Although the law requires that you answer the question within a 30-day deadline, but if you do not answer, I cannot enforce it. It's a lex imperfecta. Then we'll call him again. That's all we can do or include in the annual report that someone refused to cooperate with us. Another thought you raised. If Members of Parliament had not reached the 25 percent ratio to turn to the Constitutional Court and turned to us, I would, of course, launch and conduct an inquiry. It wasn't like that. It hasn't happened in the last year. As I told you before the committee, in the CEU case, the rector came to us. In the meantime, you beat me to it because it was submitted to the Constitutional Court. That's what I said. They don't need custody. The same constitutional law factor is 25 percent of the Members of Parliament, and I do not think it makes any sense for even the Ombudsman to turn to the court at the same time, because they are not under guardianship. Finally and finally, thank you very much for these comments. Sorry, I'll add one more thing to Mr. Teleki. In general, it is very difficult for me to improve the situation of the civil sector, but I can promise you that we have excellent cooperation relations with those rights-protection organisations that can convey very, very important information from social groups with whom we do not even meet, because they are not even able to express their own complaints. So that's what I can say, and I promise you, it will continue to be that way in the future. All in all, allow me one last thought. In the introduction of this report, I wrote an ars poetica with a little literary inspiration. [[10.10]] The whole point of this ars poetic was - I do not want to tell you in detail now and keep you from doing so - that a Commissioner for Fundamental Rights could be responsible for roughly the equal distribution of rights. However, it cannot be held responsible for the content of those rights; for what is the content of these rights, you, the legislators, will determine. As a result, it is very difficult for me to take account of the ideal and good governance in general, because this is beyond my competence, so this is a lot for me. What I can tell you is where there are dysfunctions, operational anomalies in the existing system, we can point them out, and if there is reception skills, we will correct them with the government in this sense. But so generally I am not a depositary of good governance and ideal state... So I don't have the Philosopher's Stone, that's all I wanted to say. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-04-12	Thank you, Mr László Székely, for the closure of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. I will ask Mr Zoltán Demeter, rapporteur for the Justice Committee, if he wishes to reply. [[For signal:]] It's all been said. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a joint general debate on the bill amending domestic and other related laws and on the proposed amendment of certain migration laws until closure. Government referrals T/17458. and T/17565. available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposals will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the legislative proposals, in a 40-minute time frame.
u2017-10-04-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The joint general debate on the two legislative proposals before this House is due to the fact that house rules provide an opportunity to negotiate content-related legislative proposals. T/17458. The main provisions of the bill No.1, CLXXXIX of 2011 on the local governments of Hungary. Amendment of Act T/17555. A significant part of the bill is the 2016 CL on the General Administrative Regulation. contains provisions relating to the law. Dear Parliament, First, I would like to present our proposal to amend domestic and other related laws to the House. The amendment of the bill in relation to water management proposes to abolish the obligation to authorise and notify water facilities and wells less than 80 metres shall be used to satisfy domestic water requirements. Where the water permit procedure is maintained, no administrative service fee shall be paid for the procedure. The government also intends to support the reduction of the financial and administrative burden on agricultural water users. In order to broaden the possibility of irrigation management, we create electronic administration for water rights authorisations. I would particularly like to highlight the decision-supporting VIZEK framework for farmers. The framework provides economical calculations and thus helps to improve irrigation. Water consumption for agricultural purposes will be increased, which can be used free of water supply. Taking into account the position of the Chamber of Agricultural Economy, this would extend to 300,000 cubic metres per year instead of 50,000 cubic metres per year, instead of to 400 thousand cubic metres per year, for fish and rice production, instead of 150 thousand cubic metres per year. The bill establishes twice a 15-percent wage development for more than 4,000 public workers employed in water administrations. At the same time, the elements of the career model appear, introduces benchmarking, a system of further training, and sets professional ethics standards. By amending the law on general rules for electronic administration and trust services, this proposal would like to clarify the scope of the bodies subject to the e-administration and the provision thereof. Thus, it is proposed that there will be no obligation for foundations and associations that do not have a tax number and for condominiums and housing associations to be subject to electronic administration as customers. In the context of electronic cooperation, the proposal allows bodies to provide data by making it available to the other body instead of sending specific documents electronically. The bill also includes an amendment to the law on chimney sweeping activities, which introduces new facilitations for the population. In single-dwelling properties, work on the order is introduced instead of on a regular basis. In the future, the real estate user may order the service at the regionally competent public or municipal service provider, if necessary, at his own discretion. On the basis of the order of the real estate user, the territorial service provider carries out the tasks specified in the linework, which remain free of charge in the general public. Dear Parliament, The law on the service of professional staff of law enforcement bodies, which entered into force on 1 July 2015, is essential for establishing the salary for 2018. On 1 July 2015, with the entry into force of the new Act of Service, a historical change occurred in the lives of professional members of the law enforcement system. After many years of waiting, the new law has also made a significant change in the area of financial appreciation of around 60,000 professional staff, with an unprecedented increase in salaries since 2002. In line with the planned schedule, the bill proposes a further increase of an average salary of 5 per cent from 1 January 2018 and, taking into account previous increases in salaries, the average salary increase of 45 per cent from 1 January 2018 will be taken into account in the event of the adoption of this proposal. A further 5% will be possible on 1 January 2019, but a separate proposal will be made for this, and then we will achieve a 50% salary increase. As of 1 January 2018, the Act already allows for the advance classification of professional staff in the payment step, so the specialty of the regulation on the establishment of next year's salary is, compared to the previous one, already counting on the rise in salaries resulting from the pre-priority. Shh. This amendment clarifies, for example, the regulation of ePersonal management based on the first experience of the new legal institutions introduced earlier. It amends the steps of the procedure for the establishment of protective health care, and defines the scope of the right to maternity leave in a much more complete way. The purpose of the amendment of the law on the local governments of Hungary is to ensure consistency and coherence between the Act on General Administrative Rules and the Act on Administrative Rules. The vast majority of the amendments are terminological and technical amendments. Dear Parliament, With regard to the law on infringements, the infringement procedure and the infringement registration system, I would like to draw the attention of the Honourable Parliament to the following three major amendments. These amendments broaden the guarantee elements of the right to a fair trial. In the event of an order for detention of an offence, the person subject to the proceedings shall be required to be represented by a lawyer. In order to ensure a wider protection of the rights of persons subject to infringement proceedings, the prosecutor should be able to initiate a wider trial for the benefit of the perpetrator. By converting the on-the-spot fines imposed for the commission of an infringement into detention, the regulation becomes clear in order to ensure that the current different court practices become uniform. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The other proposal before us is a bill amending certain legislation on migration. [[10.20]] The proposals for amendments contained in the bill take into account the expectations of ongoing public administration reform and help to combat illegal migration effectively. The provisions of the draft are consistent with the government's migration policy. The bill also contains a proposal for the transposition of a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, which aims to make the provisions on researchers, students, pupils, trainees and volunteers from third countries more transparent. The transposition of the rules contained in the Directive does not provide for any facilitation for the persons concerned as regards the entry and residence of third-country nationals in Hungary. The envisaged provisions shall include all possibilities to verify the person or purpose of his/her intended residence. Dear Parliament, I would ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss the legislative proposals and to accept both proposals. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-04-14	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Simon Miklós, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-10-04-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The T/17565. In addition to technical clarifications, the bill sets out a new set of procedures and responds to the needs of law enforcement in the fight against illegal migration. In view of the fact that the General Administrative Regulation Act, which lays down general rules on new administrative procedures, which will enter into force on 1 January 2018, will not apply to the migration, foreign police and asylum authorities' procedures, it is necessary to adapt to the new regulatory system all legal and administrative laws related to the entry into force. The Fidesz fraction supports the amendments contained in the proposal. T/17458. I would like to highlight the provisions amending the law on the relationship between professional staff of law enforcement bodies, which also lays down the rules for establishing the salary for 2018. Once again, everyone can take another step forward in view of the fact that the draft legislation will implement, as of 1 January 2018, the new average salary increase of 5 per cent. It should also be pointed out that wage development and special new rules such as the system of advancement, training and further training for public servants working in water administrations are also being developed. We welcome a further reduction in the burden on the population. Now, according to the announcement of the owner of the family house, you can tell when to visit him and the free service since 1 July 2016 will be expanded with an additional population-friendly element. In line with Fidesz's migration policy, the bill also includes the transposition of a directive that facilitates legal migration for learning and education purposes. The Fidesz faction supports the bill tabled by the Minister of the Interior. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-04-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-10-04-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I had a great time in my fellow Member's speech; it didn't tell me if my fellow Member was in the picture. [[Miklós Soltész intervenes.]] that there are two separate laws that we are talking about; but then I would say that these are the joint debate of two legislative proposals. As the Parliament is discussing, it illustrates what you have degraded the Hungarian Parliament into. The government and the pro-government factions are not even trying to pretend that there is a real debate in the Parliament on public affairs. You see Parliament as just a law factory, which you are very, very tired of. How can it be explained that we are negotiating two salad laws in a joint general debate that have nothing to do with each other? More precisely, the only point of connection is that, for both legislative proposals, the rapporteur is the Minister of the Interior, thus the only pragmatic aspect behind the joint debate, so that the Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior will get away with this whole day with a national exposé and a closing word, if he wants to do so. Moreover, the domestic salad law itself is a mockery of legislation, my fellow Members, from the life model of water workers through the rules of water use, through the carve of the Code of Violation, until the payment of professional staff is settled, the BM is crowded with all the problems requiring legislation; almost everything, because for reasons of scale, the laws on migration are probably left out. But now, by ordering a joint debate, this has been partly corrected. It's just that you don't have to worry so much about this Parliament thing. There is something to be discussed, my fellow Members, and there is something to rethink, my honourable members of the Government. For example, there is an amendment to the rule on checking the chimneys of family houses. Several times in the winter, inadequate chimneys and combustion plants cause a fatal tragedy. In view of this, it is shocking that the government would now abolish the mandatory chimney checks for family houses. Instead, property owners would be entrusted with the responsibility of ordering the check. This is justified by reducing the administrative burden on the general public. However, the real reason is that, after the destruction of private and municipal chimney sweeping companies, disaster protection is unable to perform the nationalised chimney sweeping tasks normally, so they are likely to try to get rid of a good part of the tasks, since they are obviously expecting that the owners of family houses will not order the service in a significant part. The risks of this have also been highlighted by the chimney sweeping trade union and the deputy Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. Allow me to quote in particular the statement by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights:, We ask the legislator - these are you - that, with his proposed steps to ease the administrative burden on the general public, the state of health of the population and the protection of the values of the environment are not put at risk by abandoning continuous mandatory controls. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This proposal is an open admission of the destruction the Orbán government has done in the chimney sweeping trade. It can be prognosticated that in a few years this may result in a sharp rise in the number of fatal tragedies, for which not only the government but all Members who vote for this law in this form will be responsible. Perhaps the new career model of water workers deserved a separate law and parliamentary debate. Instead, this is also crammed into this salad law. In the case of water workers, the government acts in the same way as in other sectors of the public sector: after years of leasing, it finally provides a significant increase in salary, but at the same time they receive the career model in Orbán as a tying, along with all known disadvantages. Of course, the long-term salary increase is welcome, but the MSZP continues to believe that it would be necessary not to negotiate salaries and careers per sector, but to improve the overall wage development of civil servants and public service workers, and to raise the unchanged salary funds since 2008. I do not want to go around answering the most important political question regarding the bill. [[10.30]] In particular, this salad law is part of the amendment of the municipal law, which requires a two-thirds majority, and there is no two-thirds majority of the pro-government factions. We also believe that there would be plenty to amend in the municipal law, so we have been demanding for years that the municipalities receive their withdrawn institutions, in particular those of primary and secondary schools; that social care be returned to the municipal authorities together with central resources; that legal guarantees ensure the autonomy of municipal management; that the allocation of budgetary support to municipalities should be based on pre-defined objective indicators; that the right to impose supervision fines on the government commissioner should be abolished and that the right to replace acts should be transferred to the courts; that the full municipal authority of Budapest should be restored. However, this is not the case in the proposed bill, the government is only important from a legal point of view, but it does not want the Parliament to adopt any changes. The MSZP will not be a partner in persuading the laws of the Orbán government that tear up local government. Two thirds of the aid is granted only for a legislative amendment concerning the restoration of municipal rights and the return of the powers and institutions taken. It is important to note that the government's salad law differs in many elements from the draft published on the Ministry of Interior website in the summer. Most importantly, there was no provision to store footage of public space cameras operated by different bodies in a central storage facility. The National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information also strongly opposed the regulation. In my communication, I made my group's position very clear: we will, by all means, prevent this two-thirds amendment from being accepted by Parliament, and we called on the Ministry of the Interior not to submit to Parliament any amendment which clearly violates fundamental rights. We are pleased to see that we are finally right, that BM has removed this element from the bill. Unfortunately, however, there are still a lot of unacceptable provisions left in the salad law, as I have already said in relation to the control of chimneys and the life model of water workers. We are also unable to support the proposal to amend the migration laws, which is largely linked to the entry into force of the new administrative statute law. As memorable, the MSZP opposed the fact that, in the future, the Orbán government will return to the regulatory logic established in the 1950s and which exceeded the current procedural law in 2004. The consequences of this are made clear by the bill before us, since there are no more than 21 pages of norm to be incorporated into the Alien Police Act in order to replace the rules currently in force in the Rules of Procedure. This fragmented set of rules will be a major challenge even for qualified lawyers, let alone for clients involved in proceedings. In view of all this, the MSZP Group will vote against both laws. Thank you for listening.
u2017-10-04-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Firtl Mátyás, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-10-04-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The bill on the agenda, amending domestic duties and other related laws, contains 26 legislative amendments, which concern interrelated but very wide range of areas, including taxes, the status of civil servants, and other laws on water management. Furthermore, amendments to the laws on public service officials on disaster protection, local governments in Hungary are also included in the legislative package, but also include amendments to the laws on the activities of persons carrying out certain police tasks, the identification, designation and protection of vital systems and facilities. In addition, during the joint debate we will discuss T/17565. A proposal to amend certain laws on migration, proposing to amend 16 laws on migration, in conjunction with the 2016 CL on the general administrative statute which will enter into force on 1 January 2018. by law, given that the latter will not, by reason of its specific nature, cover alien police and asylum procedures. The 2016 CL on the General Administrative Regulation. Act I of 2007 governing the entry and residence of persons with the right of free movement and residence, and Act II of 2007 on the entry and residence of third-country nationals, become necessary as a consequence of the entry and residence of the law. Law and the 2007 LXXX on asylum. supplementing law with general procedural rules. The additional provisions of the latter will need to be amended or, where appropriate, supplemented or clarified in the context of the entry into force of Act I of 2017 on Administrative Rules. Another part of the proposed amendments to the legislative package is related to the deadline for transposition of Directive 2016/801 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals on 23 May 2018. This deals with the entry of third-country nationals for research, study, practice, voluntary service, student exchange programmes and educational projects, so that we can manage the Foreign Police Act together in a presentation in this House. Dear House, I would like to specify some elements of the proposals for amendments to the two legislative packages. First, T/17458 concerning domestic affairs tasks. I would like to draw the attention of this House to two areas of the bill. Firstly, I would like to mention the responsibility for the long-term survival of water resources and for amendments aimed at preserving the quality of water, which should be emphasised in legislation in all areas of the legislation to ensure full enforcement of the interests of water resources, including water management, technical, safety and water protection rules. The legal obligation of liability is linked to the fact that our surface waters and their formations are the property of the Hungarian State. To all of this, the valued world view and world view are inextricably associated with the moral responsibility with which it regards the natural environment as a created heritage for care and development, which must not be destroyed, but protected and enhanced. Using it on water, all this is done in the service of the public interest and the common good, and in the service of the good, the preservation of its quality, the creation and provision of professional conditions, including the law. The information and control framework for the use of water in agriculture, the development of the VIZEK, which includes legislative amendments to the package of proposals, serves both directly and indirectly these objectives. It is important that flexibility, efficiency, in line with the reduction of bureaucracy and costs for government purposes, the effective transfer and use of e-administration in this area, in the area of public administration. The VIZEK project, which is also supported by the EU, is specifically aimed at achieving a higher, more efficient service through the interconnection of separate administrative IT systems in the process of water licensing, reducing the administrative burden associated with the operational reporting obligations of water users for agricultural purposes, increasing the transparency and control of data, and supporting irrigation development and efficient water resource management, and in this context supporting and facilitating a more targeted, cost-effective use of aid. In the field of electronicisation of water law procedures, I would like to highlight a single element, which is an illustration of what the amendment of the law is in practice, in addition to protecting the environment, the protection of water, and, together with it, the well-being of people, and the growth of communities, are very directly serving. [[10.40]] The system to be introduced will prevent negative consequences: the threat of domestic water bases will cease, the pollution of drinking water bases will be prevented, the economies will be improved, while the rural development programme will provide multiple applications for nearly HUF 100 billion, the use of which has been hampered by paper bureaucracy. Dear House, The other areas of the legislative package that I should highlight are the 2011 CXXVIII on the amendment of disaster management and related laws. In order to enable a professional disaster management body to process customer documents during the transport and control of industrial safety and dangerous goods and to include the tasks of the authority, CXX of 2012 on the activities of persons carrying out certain police tasks. Amendment to Act XLII 2015 on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies. Amendment of law and amendment of the law of the European Parliament and of the Council on the basis of a limited set of practical conclusions based on the experience of law enforcement, the draft proposes the order of proceedings in the event of law enforcement and health damage, in order to amend and implement the rules of conflict of interest, the concept of electronic personnel administration, the concept of high alertness. The 2012 CLXVI on identification, designation and protection of critical systems and facilities. amending law to the European Parliament and Council 1999/148. Directive, the NIS Directive, is being transposed into the domestic legal system. This ensures a uniform high level of security for network and information systems across the EU. In order to ensure compliance, Member States should adopt and publish this by 9 May 2018. Dear House, The joint amendment of certain migration laws to be negotiated in the consolidated debate is set out in the T/1756. Proposal for an amendment of the legislative package, which contains a number of provisions to assist or standardise the application of the law, but which also has an important message from another point of view: the fact that the package of laws amending certain legislation on the subject of migration awaits us here, in this form, indicates that, if you like, it proves that Hungary will grant rights to all citizens from other countries who come legally, to all who respect our laws, to all who respect them, to refugees, where appropriate. But with this, the Hungarian government is determined and unwavering that those who want to come to Europe illegally, not as refugees, but as immigrants, can decide who they wish to receive. This right will always be maintained and enforced for the protection of the Hungarian people, for the sake of our families, our communities and our common achievements, for the sake of our future, we will always enforce our laws, and we will not tolerate lawlessness, because we have been authorized to do so. We ourselves want to decide who we want to live with and who we want to accept. This is in the interests of the Hungarian people, this is in the interests of Hungary, but this is also in the interests of Europe. In view of what has been said, the KDNP faction considers that both T/17458 should be supported. T/17565 on the proposal to amend domestic and other related laws and to amend certain legislation on migration. I also request the support of this bill from honourable Members. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-04-20	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Congressman Adam Mirkóczki, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-10-04-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would not mention or talk about the passages and points with which we fully agree, and in fact do not lead to any change in content, but rather an amendment resulting from the EU Recommendation or for other purposes of internal harmonisation. At the same time, I must agree with my fellow Member, Mr Harangozó, and argue with Mr Secretary of State that these provisions, which are not necessarily linked, or even not at all, serve in a debate. I also think it would be more fair to discuss laws and amendments with specific content elements in a separate debate, because it is very difficult to say a single yes, a no or a abstention when it comes to salad laws of this kind. However, it is difficult to explain to anyone what and how the modifications to chimney sweeps, the changes to water resources and the changes to the law enforcement or asylum procedure fall into one. Obviously, it doesn't. And if we are talking about criticism, then, yes, I must also express that the changes to the chimney sweep are not to be supported in a subtle way. I would rather have an answer to what is the purpose of no longer binding beyond bureaucratic simplification, and, where appropriate, the Government takes a position contrary to the opinion of trade unions and the opinion of the profession, because we see it year after year, not only because of technical outdatedness, but in many cases human failure and carelessness cause a great deal of tragedy. It is clear that this regulation will increase this in the future. One thing is certain: it will help and reduce these tragedies or reduce these accidents. I would like a meaningful answer to that. As far as civil procedure or general administrative order is concerned, we do not have a particular problem with that, and we consider these changes to be supported. With regard to immigration and the whole issue of immigration as a problem, there are no major changes to the content, these are more of a legal issue, and we do not want to mess with them again. There will be contributions from my fellow Members that will give our criticisms and opinions on issues that are not linked to the migration issue, and I would rather focus on police matters, but, as I said, we fundamentally agree with them. Mr Firtl looked at me several times in his speech and said what he said as if we wanted all kinds of illegal immigrants to cover the country. I probably wasn't and the Jobbik fraction is not the recipient of this sharp or less sharp criticism, we agree with them, the same with the creation of the technical border seal, the same with the creation of the legal border seal, there is no discussion between us, I don't think that this debate is about opening up a field that will completely mislead the point, because Jobbik will continue to be a partner of the Ministry of Home Affairs in which it has always been that there is order in Hungary, illegal migration will be eliminated, reduced, and, if there is one way, put an end to it. It is good to see that the southern border section is not under siege at the moment, so to speak, but there is no doubt that the various events of world politics can still affect this huge problem, which in the future could force the government or the opposition to take a different view, but I do not think that we would be partners in this. At the same time, I would like to ask that, in addition to being a member of the Ministry of Interior, and Minister Sándor Pintér is the author and rapporteur of these proposals, we should not discuss, in the future, things that have nothing to do with each other, and it is very difficult, once again, to confirm what the common points on the issue of water supply, law enforcement or chimney sweep are, because there is nothing. [[10.50]] These are, in my view, professional issues which, first of all, must be taken and discussed by the responsible legislator in accordance with professional recommendations. I don't think it's possible, as it stands. With regard to immigration and law enforcement issues, Jobbik will, of course, support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-04-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, lead speaker of the LMP.
u2017-10-04-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, There's an absurd salad law before us again. To this day, I really think it's crazy that the government can sort out such topics, but I think we don't have to worry about it anymore, and now it's really just going to take a few months, but the fact is that it's a very bad habit and a very bad example. From 2018, it will obviously not be an example of this, but it is necessary to reach out to all subjects, since everything basically directly affects Hungarian people, with a professional content and a proper debate. So I think that this should be the guide for everyone, not the current practice. I would like to comment specifically on the amendments to the chimney sweeping activity, since on Monday I interpelled Mr Pogácsás State Secretary, and I asked him an immediate question more precisely, although I would have liked Minister Pintér to be able to answer these questions personally, but the question and the answer were also raised. It's very unfortunate that that was a cynical answer. You must see that this is not a political issue. When we are talking about this subject, and it is obviously true of many other issues and topics, then many things are not a political issue, and we are definitely not a party political issue, but we are talking about security here too. There is a change before us again that directly affects the safety of the residents, and at the moment specifically those who live in a family home. We're pretty much familiar with the history of their modification. In mid-2016, this task was reorganized at a level that essentially involves the provision of residential tasks, which accounts for 90 percent, was transferred to the National Disaster Protection, and they have to carry out the task. That was unconstitutional in the first place. And although Secretary of State Pogácsás said that there is no ongoing case in this, and that is not true, the question is before the Constitutional Court at the moment, so I think that we will talk about it. So it would not have been possible to change these rules in this way in the first place, but the fact remains, however, that 90 percent of the tasks have to be performed by an organisation that has, unfortunately, proved to be incapable of carrying out this task in the past period. And now the government's reaction to this isn't to think about how to listen to professional organizations, it's to stop the task itself. You cannot say, Minister of State, that, despite the fact that professional organisations have destroyed them with this amendment - they have destroyed a 365-year-old profession in Hungary - they cannot say that they have not had the commitment to both their profession and the population, to the people, to not constantly suggest to the government how they should properly perform this task. Professional organizations did everything they could. Once again, it was the government that did not listen to them for a moment, nor did they listen to professional suggestions. So I think this is the moment before the pro-government majority can accept this amendment when they can still change their minds. The reason I want to be more good faith now is because we are talking about a very important issue and we are really not talking about a party policy issue. So at the moment, although we know this word from the last few years, with the title of a reduction in rent, the government has made the retail service free, this is a very commendable thing, it is obviously possible to support the population, because it could have caused problems for many people as well as 2 thousand forints a year. So you have to give them support. But it can't cost people their lives. What we're talking about here is that we haven't been able to do our job since. There's an incredible number of areas in the country where the chimney sweep doesn't work. And unfortunately, there are specific numbers and lives to support this, because the situation is that twice as many people have died of carbon monoxide poisoning in the last year, in the past heating season, as before. It's a fact, a tragic fact that needs to be changed. Those whose families are dead can no longer be brought back, but now it can be changed so that there will be no more victims and that there will be a proper chimney sweeping service in Hungary again. Only fire alarms, carbon monoxide alarms, have increased fourfold in this period. You can't ignore that, Mr. Secretary. If this amendment is now adopted, it will essentially be left to the people, the families, to judge when a chimney check is needed. I think that this is not a task for people, for families, but that this service must be guaranteed. It is quite clear that chimney sweeps must carry out this task again, since disaster management shows that unfortunately there is incompetence in this matter. There are chimney sweeps, yes, but in the organization of tasks, it is simply impossible for this organization to perform its task. So it's part of security. It is only very briefly mentioned that corruption has unfortunately come to its head here too, as there have been cases where OKF has done chimney sweeping work on behalf of a private company in chimney sweeping work on behalf of industrial users. This is absolutely irregular, and I have asked many questions to the government, but I have not received any satisfactory answers. However, I think it is even more serious, it is a terrible problem, because again, resources are going to go to something that should be used to protect people, but the biggest tragedy is that more and more people are dying. And here comes the heating season, Mr. Secretary. And you know very well that a lot of people heat with trees, a lot of people heat with waste, because they don't have a choice, and they don't want to freeze. And you can actually choose between starving or heating, and obviously buying food and heating it with waste, which is even more damaging to this system, and it would be even more necessary for the chimneys to be properly controlled. This simply cannot be entrusted to people; it is the duty of the State to provide this service in some form. There will now be another amendment before this House, which will be about the revision of the gas technical safety review, i.e. the monitoring of the connecting gas pipelines. They're gonna put you through ten years of your time. By the way, the terrible thing is that you do not communicate with each other, let alone with professional organisations and not with people, but also with each other, because this proposal refers to the fact that chimney sweeps carry out inspections every two years anyway, so these ten years can go long. So they're referring to something they're about to eliminate. I think we really need to think about a lot of things here. And I'm going to say again that a reduction in the rent should not cost people their lives. Unfortunately, this situation has arisen at the moment, and this needs to be changed. Until this proposal is adopted, this can be changed. It is clear that the Hungarian government - a small look at the international scene - often sees Poland as an example of many things, and the government has an excellent friendship with the Polish government. It is clear that the friendship between the Polish and Hungarian people is indisputable, but I must say that the friendship between the two governments goes far beyond that. But I do not want to talk about foreign policy or bilateral relations, but, for example, about how control works there. In Poland, gas pockets have to be checked twice a year and wood burners four times a year. At the moment, this will not be mandatory, completely voluntary, there will be no mandatory control in Hungary. I think that if there is something, this is also a good example that the Hungarian government could follow in this bill. Once again, Mr Secretary of State, I really think that calmly, not going into a party policy field, to rethink this, to coordinate with professional organisations. Once again, they've ruined the trade in this country, the chimney sweeping trade. [[11.00]] But despite this, they are so dedicated that they will continue to bomb you with professional suggestions and requests on how to reverse this tragic situation, fix it somewhat, and prevent further tragedies. Listen to them and negotiate with them. I do not think that it is in the interests of the Hungarian Government to cause tragedies with such irresponsible decisions. You have to think about it again anyway. And then allow me to comment on one more subject in the next few minutes regarding the salad law. And that is the amendment of individual migration laws. Now I do not want to be absorbed in what technical or substantive changes there are, how small they are or how long-term consequences they have. I just want to ask you one question. How false it is that, while they are talking about a legal border closure, they are talking about a technical border closure, and the government has spent a great deal of resources on this in recent years, how it can happen in Hungary at this time, both at the legal border and at the technical border closure, at such a large [[He's showing it with his hands wide open.]] Gate gap? Mr. Secretary. This gate is nothing more than the settlement bond structure. Now 20,000 people have been allowed to enter Hungary and the Schengen area with this construction. These people will be granted a life-long residence permit in exchange for only EUR 300 000. And these people can enter Hungary without any substantive control. I would very much ask you not to list the quadruple filter and all kinds of control systems, which, unfortunately, proved to be not working, because in several cases it turned out that those who came were able to bypass this kind of control. So that's also highly questionable. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) By the way, these settlement bonds are marketed by companies that are offshore companies. Nowhere in the world does such a construction work by selling offshore companies, so the state sells everywhere, only Hungary is so incredibly brave to trust offshore companies. Although it is understandable that Árpád Habony and Antal Rogán's names arise on a regular basis in relation to these companies, and the company on which their name is raised has now earned HUF 140 billion. So you can talk here about whether the European Union is anyone or George Soros, because this is their obsession, which Tibor Navracsics also said there is no Soros plan, because it is the Hungarian government that has not only organised it consciously, it has implemented it. And for nothing more than government circles or buddies getting rich. 140 billion forints for just one company! This is the company that brought 1492 people in only in 2016. It is recalled that according to the judgment of the European Court of Justice, which the Hungarian Government refuses to carry out, 1294 people should be judged, i.e. more than 100 fewer people should judge the application for asylum. I just wanted to show you in this example how incredibly false it is to act and communicate with the government. So I don't think anything you say about security can be credible from now on. After all, with settlement bonds, they could bring in people from counterintelligible secret services to the European Union and Hungary, and they could also bring in organized criminal circles. And he didn't have a proper check. And I would also point out that this sale was suspended by the government. The law is still alive. So if you really think for a moment that you want the Hungarian people to be safe, let's say you can start by repealing the law that created the settlement bond construction and keeps it alive to this day. I have no illusion that they would do that. Obviously, we'll be doing this from 2018, but regardless, if you're serious, I think we should start here. Back to the changes to the chimney sweeping activity, think about it, Mr. Secretary of State. I'm really asking you to reconsider. Professional organizations, you know, are willing to agree and do whatever it takes to keep the residents safe. But for now, if this amendment is implemented, it will be the government that is essentially sacrificing the safety of people, and so unfortunately, it will be responsible for the tragedies that can happen in the next heating season. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-10-04-24	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. This is the first independent Member who has applied, but Mrs Szabó Timea, who has indicated her intention to speak, is not in the Chamber, so I am not in a position to give the floor. Of course, when you arrive, you will be able to make your point by pressing a button. Dear Parliament, I am now giving the floor to Mónika Bartos, Member of the Fidesz Group, among the speakers that have been announced. Here you go.
u2017-10-04-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary of State! My fellow Members know that I am also a member of the Committee on Sustainable Development, and if we are talking about sustainability, it is important to emphasise the importance of adaptation beyond halting negative processes and slowing them down. It is an indisputable fact that the negative effects of climate change are already being felt today. Many of its effects on health and the environment are felt by all of us. We suffered in the summer. The number of extreme weather events is increasing and the number of droughts is increasing. This increases the risk of agricultural production and threatens not only the livelihoods of those working in agriculture but also the security of food supply. After all, all these events can result in dramatic crop losses. Irrigation is one of the best and most effective ways to adapt. That is why I am pleased that the bill before us on the amendment of domestic and other related laws, as Mr Secretary of State said, contains a number of provisions on the subject of the use of water in agriculture. There are currently 100,000 hectares of irrigation, which we are trying to increase to 300,000 hectares. That's still not a big deal, considering that we've already reached 360,000 acres. We need to help farmers adapt better to extreme weather phenomena, environmental changes, including drought, in order to ensure the safety of production, in order to ensure the safety of food supply for all. The proposal before us puts irrigation farmers in a position, in particular, by reducing bureaucracy, and creates the possibility of setting up a decision support system. I think it is very important to emphasise that, in line with the objectives of the proposal, the full transition to electronic administration in the field of water licensing will take place from 2019 onwards. Applications will be submitted electronically, contacts with administrative authorities, and decisions will be communicated electronically, which is cost-effective in addition to simplicity and speed. The measures will allow the water licensing process for water extraction facilities and irrigation equipment to be free from administrative service charges as from 2018. Depending on the amount of water extracted, this saves from 72 thousand forints to 630 thousand forints. In addition, further savings will be made through reasonable changes to design fees, licensing and water supply contributions. In addition to financial facilitations, the so-called decision support system of the VIZEK framework for electronic administration will greatly facilitate the work of farmers wishing to irrigate. After all, it will be sufficient to provide the parcel data and the characteristics of the plant culture to be irrigated in order for the system to carry out the necessary economic calculations on the basis of the hydrographic and geological data provided by the Directorate-General for Water and the Institute for Agricultural Economic Research, and to indicate whether the irrigation system is feasible and the duration of the return on the investment. [[11.10]] I think that this will be a very effective tool for farmers, since farmers will be helped to determine the right way to irrigate. This is intended to allow irrigation where there is sufficient capacity. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is all our responsibility to help our society adapt to the environmental changes that we are facing. The proposal facilitates a rational way of doing so by helping and improving the conditions for irrigation farming. It is in the interest of food supply - I could put it as our daily bread - to provide it. I think that this is an outstanding point in the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-04-26	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, Jobbik Group.
u2017-10-04-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, For my part, within this salad law, I would like to analyse the part about people employed by the water authorities and to express my opinion on this. As we know, we are talking about civil servants, and let me begin with a brief introduction. We find the government's policy of public sector workers to be very fraudulent. In particular, we know that there are about 860,000 civil servants, state officials, government officials and civil servants working in Hungary today according to the Hungarian Central Statistical Office. A state secretary leading the Prime Minister's Office has made statements in this regard, who generally believes and manifests himself in the press that we are talking about more than a million people, and that is a lot of people, and there is no need for so many people in the public sector, and the government is planning significant cuts, as he said, but we believe that there are not only few civil servants in Hungary today, for example, we know that in certain local government offices there is a serious shortage of staff, and that there is a serious overload on individual employees, but we also have to say in the case of civil servants that the biggest problem in Hungary today is that there are not enough teachers, there are not enough doctors. There are very few other civil servants employed to help them, but we can even talk about water management workers in this regard, so that I can now come to the point of substance. Here, too, we know that professionals are fleeing the sector. Why? Because the wages are so low. Today, in the case of public employees, if we look at the pay sign, we should see that about two thirds of employees receive minimum wage and a guaranteed minimum wage in the case of salaries paid under the pay table. In this sense, the whole pay table itself is becoming meaningless, as the government thus outlines a career model for individual civil servants that it does not matter that they have a secondary education and are now leaving the school bench or an academic doctorate, and is now starting their public employment career, they will surely receive the same amount of money: a guaranteed minimum wage. And it doesn't matter if the person is studying in the meantime, and also in payment classes, not only in grades, he's moving forward, he'll still get the same amount. In fact, if someone, let's say I do, spends their life as a public servant, but as a secondary education, they start and finish their career with a virtually guaranteed minimum wage. Consequently, of course, you will also receive a minimum pension in Hungarian: this is the minimum career model that the government offers to public employees. We are now seeing a kind of step out of this completely scandalous attitude, which the government otherwise testifies to in the case of civil servants. As the Secretary of State has said, they offer 15 plus 15 percent wage increases for these civil servants. Yeah, but here's the fund, that's the civil servant's allowance you're getting right now, so there's gonna be a 15 plus 15 percent increase compared to that. On this basis, I have to say that these employees will be classified as A-E, and in category A you will still be able to receive a maximum of HUF 160,000 after 35 years of work or after more than 35 years of work. I don't think it's such a high level field that it's going to make this career attractive in the face of the difficulties that we've had so far. The next step, i.e. in the case of the B-class, will start with a guaranteed minimum wage for those in Class 1 and will reach the limit of HUF 180,000 after seven years of work. It's true, it's a lower limit I'm talking about, and you've set a lower and upper limit for each class, but at the same time I have to say that there's no guarantee under the law that the wages of employees will be adjusted by the individual employers, let's say, to the upper limit. So this can be a nice pep talk, but never a dream come true. At the same time, the professional ethics standards that you're setting out are something incredibly far-reaching, and I feel that they're far overextensive. For example, let me quote 13/I. § 2 which concerns the termination of the civil service relationship. A civil servant's relationship may be terminated with immediate effect if the civil servant has an attitude capable of seriously destroying the authority of his job or the employer's reputation and other trust. But what, then, is the attitude that you would like to punish here with immediate firing? In professional standards, we read 13/A. In Section 2 of the Act, such as professionalism, reliability, a strong sense of professionalism and belonging, unconditional and unselfish helpfulness, loyalty, dignity, integrity and so forth. I think that these are so general and so free-to-understand concepts, otherwise it is legitimate to expect all workers to do so, but let's face it, we are people, everyone can have a slightly worse day when our boss may feel that we do not have the unconditional helpfulness that is usually typical for the rest of our days. Therefore, you say that the legal relationship can be terminated with immediate effect, and it does not even have to be justified if the employer cannot be expected to inform the employee of all the circumstances. In English, it's safe to say that if someone has a slightly worse day, you think they can bring an immediate termination. I do not think that these two together, so how much you want to increase the wages of civil servants who work here, but what professional ethics standards are required to do so, in any way, would be in proportion to each other. And the problem you would otherwise want to deal with with with this bill, namely, that professionals should not flee from this sector, but that they should stay there, they will not be able to achieve it. I ask the Honourable Secretary of State to reconsider, because this will not be a solution - I will say it again. As regards the two-thirds part of the bill, namely, the clarification of the municipal law, we know that it was necessary because Mötv. has to be brought into line with Act I of 2017 on Administrative Procedure, and we fully agree with that. There's nothing wrong with that. [[11.20]] Let me remember one thing, two things, to be exact. One is that there is a conflict of interest case in Hungary today, and it has been before, when, for some inexplicable reason, some municipalities do not make the decision that they should, by law, make. I'll give you a specific example, now without a city name: in one city, it turns out that one of the sub-Mayor and also a representative - not an external deputy mayor - has a media company in which he is also a personal contributor, so he is a senior official of the company, and he didn't think of this small circumstance to inform the body of representatives. By the way, everyone actually knew about it, but they thought it would eliminate this conflict of interest within 30 days of his election. Well, he didn't do it, not only didn't do it in 30 days, he did it a lot longer. What does God do? It was about a government deputy mayor, a pro-government majority on the body of representatives of that city, and they did not make the very obvious, clear decision that they should have made to end this man's representation, i.e. his mandate, because of a conflict of interest. But even though this matter was brought up by a citizen and the mayor himself to the relevant government office, the regional government office, the government office did not make a decision on this matter either. So in Hungarian, simply what would have been a statutory obligation to the government office did not do, did not turn to the court, as otherwise stated in the law. Since we are now changing this point with regard to litigation proceedings, have I therefore raised the five - protagonist? After all, it was only us, Jobbik - at the Ministry's meeting, that it would be necessary to clarify in some way, even if it is within the free discretion of the Government Office, when and how it comes to the court, but I think that just in order that the spirit of the law can be properly filled by the government office, it would be necessary to amend this point. Secondly, in the context of the agreement on joint municipal offices, if this cannot be established by all the municipalities within a closed deadline, as provided for by the law, and the head of the government office has to decide on this matter, then an opinion must be sought, i.e. the opinion of the municipalities. Yeah, but what's the head of the government office doing with it after he's asked for the settlements' opinions? Well, nothing, because the law doesn't obligate it in any way, nor has it ever required you to ask for the opinion, nor will it ever again, after you've asked for it, take it into account in any way in his own decision. I think that we should at least put a gesture of reference in the bill that not only asks it, but also takes it into account in its decision. This may be an indication that the establishment of joint local government offices, although, by the way, I would add what, with the whole system being set up, is neither now nor in the previous ones, so the Mötv. We did not agree when it was born, but I still think that this would help the admissibility of the whole system a little more if we added this clarification to the bill. And in other words, once again, we can accept and support the parts concerning Mötv. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Charles Kontra applauds.]]
u2017-10-04-28	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2017-10-04-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[In the box of Jobbik, representatives of the National Trade Union of Hungarian Chimney Sweeps take part.]] Dear House, I would like to deal with a certain part of the amendment of the law, the part concerning the chimney sweeping service. Neither professional workers' communities nor other organisations representing the chimney sweeping industry were involved in the preparation of the amendment, so they were all surprised. So neither the National Trade Union of the Kémény lees, nor the Association of Hungarian Kémény leesmesters, nor the National Industry Board of the Hungarian Kémény leeszések were asked about the amendment, i.e. all representatives of the entire Hungarian chimney sweeping industry were forgotten to be asked. [[Károly Kontra: That is not true!]] However, the members of these organisations may include representatives of public services, service providers and chimney sweeping bodies. In other words, you've forgotten to ask about the profession, the knowledge, the experience, because you think you know better than anyone and everything. [[Charles Kontra shakes his head.]] I see you're wagging your head, Mr. Secretary. [[Károly Kontra: Because what he says is not true.]] Stand up and ask the members of the National Union of Hungarian Chimney Sweeps - and so I welcome - [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] They'll tell you how much they've been asked, who'll be monitoring this debate. About the amendment: we are convinced that any negative legislative amendment affecting the protection of citizens' lives and property cannot be accepted by the Government and Parliament. According to the amendment, in the case of single-dwelling dwellings, where there is no registered establishment, establishment or branch of an entity, the compulsory, unordered chimney sweeping service would cease and would be entrusted to the owner's decision to order it separately. We are convinced that citizens are and cannot be in possession of the professional knowledge that reassures them to decide when they need chimney sweeping services. As a result, the assessment of possible damage from the insurance side is questionable and serious material damage, including life-threatening situations, fire and death, may occur. Ladies and gentlemen, It is recalled that, as from 1 April 2014, unlike in previous decades, twice a year monitoring, cleaning, as necessary, of chimneys for solid-fired combustion plants, has been modified once a year, resulting in an increase in the number of chimney fires specific to these chimneys from 2014 to 2016. The vast majority of these chimneys in the residential properties affected by the current legislative amendment, so if the frequency continues to decrease, it will not be every two years, as you have determined, but after a longer period of time or years, the chimney will not be checked, because it will not be ordered, this will have unforeseen consequences. Fires on chimneys can also easily occur, especially if emergency detection, i.e. preventive fire protection, is eliminated from the absence of controls, which will also pose a potential fire risk to surrounding buildings. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: As of 1 July 2016, the BM Regulation changed their previous annual monitoring and, if necessary, cleaning of gas-fired chimneys to a biannual frequency, which was partly negative in 2016 as the number of carbon monoxide poisonings became more than double in 2016 compared to the 2015 case number. In addition to mandatory controls - therefore mandatory - more than twice last year: 28 deaths, unfortunately two children, and now you want to eliminate the mandatory chimney inspection. You want more deaths? That's the goal? If this amendment is accepted, a drastic increase in chimney fires, carbon monoxide poisoning and associated deaths will occur. And then, for a few sentences, let's talk about the little people on the chimney who are sitting in this box right now, watching this debate. As a result of this amendment, the whole chimney control system could collapse, as public service undertakings working together with the municipalities that are still in charge of supply will thus be completely impossible. The number of staff and farming will become unplanned, but the same will be true of the chimney sweeping body established within the framework of the economic care centre. Up to 5 percent of citizens order separate chimney cleaning, and typically before and during the heating season, so there will be a large difference between seasonal needs that cannot be dealt with with with a sufficient number of people. In order to compensate for free of charge by the State, it is not possible to plan in advance with the public service operators until an annual ex post settlement is possible that they are economically impossible. In our view, compared to the activity of business organisations in ordering, which can only be shown in thousands, Minister of State, residential orders will occur with even lower activity. In the event of the adoption of the amendment, the number of public services and chimney sweeping bodies should be reduced by at least two thirds, which calls into question the need for the training of skilled workers initiated by the Centre for the Protection of Disasters and the Labour Office, as the result of the amendment will also result in a reduction in the number of staff in the public service and the chimney sweeping body, which may result in seasonal labour shortages. [[11.30]] Among other things, it refers to the reduction of the administrative burden on the population in relation to chimney sweeps, which is simply not understandable, since there is no more administrative task for citizens at the time of inspection and cleaning than the signing of the work. It is written in the explanatory statement, and I quote: "This obligation is an administrative and temporal burden for the owner of the property. In order to remove this burden on the general public, it is appropriate to introduce work on the order at single-dwelling dwellings, i.e. in the case of family houses, instead of regular linework. So it's an administrative and temporal burden. Following this communication logic, do not be obligated to study, for it causes both parents and children administrative and temporal burdens and even financial burdens. There should be no obligation to have a technical test for motor vehicles every 4 years or 2 years, as it causes administrative and temporal burdens for car owners and operators, and even a financial burden. Do not have to get a driver's license because it is an administrative and temporal burden. Do not make garbage shipments mandatory, because it causes administrative and time burdens for everyone. Do not be obligated to report workers, as this will cause administrative and time burdens for everyone. But I wouldn't go on, because they're gonna take it seriously, and it's gonna come from you. But let's get back to the difficulties of the service. From this point on, small numbers of residential orders will not be carried out in linework, but only in different places called star tours, which will increase the specific costs of the service, while in principle it should be done free of charge, without an exit charge. It makes the activity unorganized, untimely, if it's accepted. The minor irregularities reported during the inspections, which may later become serious problems, should currently be corrected by the owner until the next inspection. This next check is now a year or two, but it may be ten years after the amendment, because it will only be the next check. It is clear experience that a citizen only orders such a service when there is already a malfunction, but in such cases it is often only chiseling and demolition that can be the solution; chimney sweeping technologies do not, that is, preventative maintenance disappears, which will cause serious financial difficulties for citizens beyond the previous ones. It was a regrettable decision to have the retail service at the Economic Supply Centre, which operates under the protection of disasters. After all, the people entrusted with the highest management of the service at GEK are not professionals; military officers, border guards, civil defense professionals, fire protection professionals, lawyers. They cannot judge important things about the profession as much as the citizen who will order or rather not the service. These people at the GEK, the OKF, took the liberty of controlling a field they had completely unknown, without mastering professional knowledge and knowledge. Thanks to the latter, they still have a shortage of staff after nearly a year and a half, and a semi-military bureaucratic system has been imposed on the chimney sweeping body, which they wish to control in a word of power, with instructions. Another consequence of all this is the inadequate setting up and consideration of many unjustified purchases, priorities and centres of gravity. In addition to the incompetent but controlling people, chimney sweepers with little experience, driving, organizational knowledge, practice and routine were employed in the centre. Unfortunately, in most cases this is typical of the majority of the otherwise chimney sweeping professionals who hold the county leader status, respect for the exception, for the one or two people who are recognised and considered colleagues in the profession. The essence of the chimney sweeping industry, based on centuries of tradition, has been completely ignored, namely that for years the same professional in the field, at the address, has performed the activity, fully adapted to its clients, who are known almost as friends, who also had a huge knowledge of the place. Employees at GEK are forced to work in foreign areas, addresses, without local knowledge and knowledge of customers. Thus, work is slower, more circumstantial or limited to administration, so that more titles can be added to the statistics. At the time of the publication of the 2015 law, several of the renowned experts of the chimney sweeping trade offered their professional knowledge, decades of experience, routine, management, organizational practice, contacts with the management of the OKF, together with a 13-14-page document setting out the tasks, criteria and suggestions needed to organise the chimney sweeping service at all. The management of the OKF did not require this and entrusted these people with a task they could not understand or understand. Since then, there has been a replacement for the Deputy Director of the GEK chimney sweeping industry. The Centre for Disaster Protection at least used the help of recognised professionals in the profession, but unfortunately, at the pressure of leadership, the main aspect was not the preservation of the chimney sweeping workforce in the country, but the training of 24-48-hour migration firefighters for the chimney sweep. Unfortunately, these training courses have been carried out at a very low level in some areas, and the minimum number of hours required is mostly by administrative means. The lawyers of the OKF conducted legislative amendments in the BM without consulting professional organisations, which were unprofessional, unenforceable - also for their own organisation - and are currently included in the legislation. The legislation is opaque, multiple and branched, full of feedback or predictions, useless in everyday life. For almost a year and a half, GEK has not implemented its statutory obligation to hand over the databases on business organisations to chimney sweepers, together with the chimney stock. You don't know, you don't want to, but maybe there's no central records. Because we don't know that. Commissioner Secretary of State knows, I hope you will answer these questions. All these reasons led to the fact that nearly a year and a half were not sufficient to set up the appropriate organisation and to complete the tasks, to establish an appropriate register. Needlessly spent budget money, useless, expensive tools, tools - that's what your professionalism is all about. Meanwhile, the reports say that everything is in order, that they can complete the tasks; I think that Mr Secretary of State will also say these things and explain why the number of deaths was doubled in 2016 as in 2015. The workers and managers there know exactly that this is not true, and either they communicate upward in a way that their superiors are satisfied or their heads are buried in the sand, and rather they do not want to face the real situation. But we, Mr State Secretary, and all of us who will vote on this law, must face reality: if this amendment is accepted and there is no mandatory chimney control, it can lead to disaster. This amendment will lead to housing fires, carbon monoxide poisoning and deaths. If you vote in favour of this amendment, then these tragedies will be on your hands. Cancel this proposal, it will be better for you, but that is not the main aspect, but that it will be better for the people in Hungary. I would also ask that this proposal be withdrawn because this proposal has been repeatedly put into a law that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary cannot support, but we may be able to support the amendment of domestic law. What's gonna happen? If, for this reason, we do not vote for this law, then you will go back to the whole media and say that Jobbik has not voted for Hungary's security. This does not serve the safety of Hungary, what you wish to do here in connection with the chimney sweeping work is to be accepted again in an unprofessional manner with Parliament! This will lead to deaths, and we do not wish to be accomplices to the death of more people in Hungary as a result of your incompetence. I apologize to everyone, but this is a very important topic, and I will therefore press one more normal comment, because there is more to say about this. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-04-30	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, I would like to give the floor to Mr György Szilágyi once again. Here you go.
u2017-10-04-31	Thank you very much again, Mr President. That it should not be that you say that the Movement for Jobbik Hungary here in Parliament is facing very, very good bill proposals only because Fidesz is the one who submitted it, or Fidesz is the one who wants it accepted, not me, Mr. Secretary of State. Believe me - in the previous item on the agenda was the report of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights - believe Dr. Gyula Bándi, the advocate of future generations, the deputy of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights! [[11.40]] I will read what is on their website about this question, what was written by Gyula Bándi, advocate of future generations. It is also concerned about the possibility of making regular, mandatory chimney checks available to family houses from an air cleanliness point of view. The State shall ensure that the constitutional fundamental right to a healthy environment and to physical and mental health is exercised, inter alia, by requiring the compulsory use of public services for the protection of the environment. In addition to sewage treatment and treatment, as well as municipal waste management, this includes chimney sweeping services, which are essential to protect both external and indoor air quality. The importance of this activity is also stressed in the introductory provisions of the Law on chimney sweeping activities, including for the protection of human life, the protection of air purity and energy efficiency. I would like to emphasise once again that these are the words of Gyula Bándi, which he says, not the Jobbik. The draft law submitted by the Ministry of the Interior to the National Assembly removes the mandatory nature of the regular chimney checks already provided free of charge for family houses, and leaves the use of it to the discretion of the property owners. The justification of the bill also acknowledges that the individual liability of the property user is increasing. However, it is highly questionable whether the need for increased individual responsibility is realistic. å Say this, Gyula Bándi. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Neglecting chimneys can also pose a direct risk to life due to carbon monoxide in the air of dwellings and create a permanent health risk for residents nearby. The daily experience and the own examination of the Ombudsman's office also indicate that there are very serious shortcomings in the professional and responsible use of combustion plants. As a result, improper residential heating has now become the most important source of air pollution. Its role exceeds both industrial and transport emissions. According to the measurements carried out by the Air Task Force, air quality in some villages during the heating period is lower than that measured on the busiest roads in cities. On the basis of a number of municipal feedback, the most important cause of smog in the winter period is unprofessional residential heating, and illegal incineration can be condemned, even though regular chimney control would contribute to reducing both. For this reason, the removal of the mandatory and regular chimney control directly jeopardises the right of people to live and to a healthy environment. With reference to the ideals of a law-abiding citizen, the State which bears responsibility for its citizens shall not withdraw from its obligations to protect their lives. In order to ensure the right to life and to a healthy environment, the State is subject to protective obligations under the Fundamental Law, which, in addition to the establishment of appropriate legal requirements, must be carried out by institutions and procedures. In the light of the above, says Gyula Bándi once again, we ask the legislator, with its proposed steps to ease the administrative burden on the general public, to ensure that the health of the population and the protection of the values of the environment are not put at risk by abandoning continuous mandatory controls. Dr. Gyula Bándi, spokesperson for future generations, Deputy Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. And in order not only to reason with him, perhaps you should sit down with Zsolt Semjén. You know, he's always sitting next to Viktor Orbán, the Deputy Minister. [[Károly Kontrat: Deputy Prime Minister! Just for the record, Congressman. Deputy Prime Minister!]] Zsolt Semjén submitted an amendment to the law of 17571, where what is it? It is about the fact that the dangers of gas leaks have not yet been dealt with. These compression tests had to be reported. Zsolt Semjén wants to terminate this now because he says; and I quote what is involved in the amendment of the law submitted by Zsolt Semjén: . The technical safety review is intended to protect users from the dangers associated with air supply and combustion product drainage and the lack of compaction of gas pipelines and connections. In the meantime, legislation and practice on chimney sweeps have changed. Every two years, the chimney sweep checks the air supply and the flue-gas discharge. On the other hand, the risks associated with the decompression of gas pipelines and their joints persist in places of use where the owner does not comply with the ordering obligation. In the case of condominiums, this is dangerous not only for the user but also for the people living in their environment, so gas compaction checks should be made mandatory regardless of the choice of the owner. So what are you doing? They're making it mandatory. A new service will be introduced, instead of a technical security review, whereby the natural gas distributor will be obliged to check gas compaction on the connecting line and on consumer lines when checking for leakage. In this way, gas pipelines operating within real estate will prevent the dangers arising from gas leaks throughout the user circle, thus guaranteeing not only the safety of property owners but also the people living in their environment, because they say that it is necessary to delete all this because they realize that this is not realistic and that despite their obligation to order it, the population has not complied with this order at all. Then Zsolt Semjén also says that what you have just submitted is equally inappropriate. In the end, allow me a personal thing I was asked to do. The chimney sweeps behind my back, who might lose their jobs, these chimney sweeps, who work hard on the chimneys, these chimney sweeps think their work is in danger and are in danger of what they've been fighting for for years to keep people safe. They have families. This uncertainty you've caused over the years, these families can sense it. A seven-year-old daughter of one of the chimney sweepers wrote a letter to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, and I would like to read it now, and I would like to give it to the Secretary of State, and I would ask him to give it to Prime Minister, in case this is how he will be informed of the laws you intend to introduce. I'd like to read this letter, and I know I don't think it's an illustration, and there's a picture attached to it by the little girl. [[He's showing me a picture.]] Orbán's photo of a visit to Orbán in Eger, when Viktor Orbán had a pleasant conversation with a chimney sweeper and assured him in 2015 that everything would be okay with this profession. So, the letter is, "Dear Prime Minister, Uncle! You remember when you were with us in Eger, you met one of my dad's coworkers, Uncle Pista, which we were very happy about. I thought he was our friend, and he was gonna help us do what he promised Uncle Pista. My dad's been sad lately, and they talk a lot about some rules with my mom. I also heard that Daddy is afraid - and he's always brave - of what will happen to us if he can't go sweeping chimneys, even though he loves his job very much. I'm asking you nicely to help me and my dads get a job so I can see him happy again because he's the best dad in the whole world to me. Vanessa from Eger. Your father's sitting up there. [[One of the people in the box behind Jobbik raises his hand.]] So it's not a fake, it's from the little girl to the Prime Minister, so I'd like to give it to the Secretary of State. Please give this letter to the Prime Minister. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik. György Szilágyi Kontra approaches Károly and gives the letter.]]
u2017-10-04-32	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP Group.
u2017-10-04-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, It is very difficult to begin with this amendment, since here we would have to study 200 pages and discuss it in this general debate. First of all, I would like to express our group's position that the attitude of the government to try to combine and push together content and legislation on completely different subjects is unacceptable. This is unmanageable, all of which are specific areas of expertise; my colleague Szilágyi, who was before me, spoke for a long time only about the chimney sweep, Márta Demeter left, but all of which should be treated as a separate item on the agenda, as an independent subject, with sufficient weight. I feel bad about this because it's people's lives. Not only about the lives of chimney sweepers, but also about the lives of a bunch of other segments and sectors. A very, very arrogant attitude on the part of the government is that, virtually without further ado, it destroys a small social group. It doesn't just do this to chimney sweeps, it's what it's done to fishermen before, where a few hundred families have had it without a polling base, not a lot, it's okay to destroy them. [[11.50]] It is this attitude that makes it essential for you to fail in 2018, because for you some families, some sectors, some people's health doesn't matter when it comes to keeping your own base together and strengthening your own business interests with some irresponsibleness. I specifically refer to the 1995 LVII on water management submitted in the salad. I wanted to tell you about the amendment of the law, because it was the most important thing in my field, and obviously it contains many elements in itself, so it would have been quite appropriate for this to come before the Parliament on its own. The establishment of the water system as a general water database and the change in the status of the public servant and labour law system of the water organisation can be seen as positive in the salad, which is why, if so much is grouped together, it makes voting behaviour difficult by the opposition, because there are parts that are even eligible. At the same time, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State that, although civil servant status is being settled, when the status of government officials will be settled, there are also a number of other officials in the sector, who have not had any increase in income since 2007, and there has been no positive change in the provision of their working conditions. Obviously, the right to establish a regulation for municipalities may be sympathetic if we consider that a number of issues can be resolved at the lowest possible level, but the question is whether the municipalities have recently been qualified to decide on such issues. My problem is that, no, the professional background in this area has virtually disappeared from the local authorities, there is no expert on water issues, water issues, environmental protection and environmental safety, because they have destroyed and disabled the professional work in the municipalities. Consequently, the return of such a right is now irresponsible. This can only be done if the municipalities receive normative support, funding again with appropriate professional assistance and the opportunity to make really good decisions. Until now, this right of regulation is extremely risky in respect of the bodies of representatives, as most bodies of representatives do not have the expertise to judge them professionally, and obviously other steps of the legislation that remove legislative rights from Parliament or Parliament may pose a risk, as they always return or regularly return to the level of regulation governance, which I understand, as the elections approach, that they are in need. However, the most important concession in relation to this salad law is that the government practically significantly increases the amount of water that can be used free of charge, thus releasing the water supply contribution and creating the possibility of doing so during the year-on-year use of water which has been significantly increased. What is happening here is that virtually 50,000 cubic meters per year instead of 400,000 cubic metres per year, while for small production it will be increased to 300,000 cubic metres per year for 150,000 cubic metres. I can say that this would be an eligible measure. I say that this could be a necessary step for the Hungarian agriculture and the Hungarian landscape. It could be if the government did water management, but it didn't. At the moment, every day in Hungary more water leaves the borders of the country than it arrives. The government has not taken the slightest step in the last seven years in order to achieve a water conservation farming that can be used to address the water scarcity of our landscapes. As long as it's not guaranteed, it's an irresponsible move. The first thing we need is to redefine our entire water management and to completely replace that about 150-year-old paradigm, which roughly helps us to get the water out of the country as quickly as possible by straightening the rivers. This is a practical opportunity in times of great water and in situations of war, but it happens every few years, while the risk of drought is becoming ever more frequent, and the effects of climate change are increasingly dewatering the landscape and creating more and more difficulties. As long as the government does not have a rational, useful plan to rethink our water management and has no concept of how to build up the possibilities of storing water in Hungary and in the Carpathian Basin, such concessions should not be made, because this is an irresponsible management of one of our most important natural resources. Hungary is currently an extremely rich country with natural resources and a large part of our fresh water supply. We are a sub-water country, which gives us the opportunity to use the amount of rain coming down from the Carpathians in the rivers here, but there is no effort. Last week there was a meeting of the Parliament's Committee on Sustainable Development in Szolnok, where, among other things, the Director of the Central Tisza Water Directorate was also a lecturer. He showed me the nearly 6,000 billion of developments about what EU funds were used in the water sector and there is hardly anything in them that is reasonable and useful. They want regular... earth jobs, they want to take the money out of Lőrinc Butcher and his gang. I can show you places along the Central Tisza, where the dam has been demolished and built 40 meters, 50 meters away, on the grounds that they give the river space without any impact, while there would be a chance to improve the condition of the dead beards, store the entire amount of water in the Great Plain, and no direction will be taken. The government could always do one thing: maintain the relevant sections of the Fundamental Law and promote sustainable use of natural resources. There are two measures which are contrary to this draft. The domestic salad No 17458 is based in substance and in a major professional part of the former T/15373. The legislative background, which has been submitted to the Council on the subject of constitutionality concerns, has been highlighted by a number of people. The Water Management Act states that groundwater should only be used to the extent that water abstraction and water supply balance is maintained without damage to quality. However, the increase in water supply-free quotas can be a government step equivalent to waste water resources, irresponsible water management, since they cannot say whose interests this is in particular. I can tell you, or, if you will allow me, I would be very happy to give you the background to this, because it is not the small farmers who will take advantage of this opportunity, but the greats that you constantly represent: Sándor Csányi, Lőrincek Mészáros. The 30 largest agricultural companies in Hungary currently use 2134 square kilometres, which is more than 200,000 hectares rounded up, which is virtually the whole territory of Luxembourg. They are the ones who influence such things so that they do not have to pay; not me, and not all the other 20, 30, 50 ha farmers. No! It's only good for the big ones; it's the 30 biggest companies. There are 180,000 farmers, and the 500 largest of them dominate the vast majority of Hungary's territories and receive more than 78 percent of agricultural subsidies. Can't the Sándor Csányi pay for this water? Why don't you put some kind of barrier in there? Think about the size of the 400,000 cubic meters per year of water supply increase? ! Not the little ones... Once again, you do nothing but present an opaque salad representing the interests of the Hungarian billionaires, how they can support the economic elite that creates your economic background. Again, it is the billions of billionaires' support, while these resources, these water tasks are needed by everyone, the whole of the Great Plain would need it, the whole of the Danube-Tisza. And everywhere, it would be necessary to build such capacities from the money they collect from Sándor Csányi and others like him, to whom, by the way, the FM, in a completely stupid way, gives billions of dollars as aid each year, as if the billionaires needed it. And obviously this works not only in large, but also in small, because he wrote it on one of the background laws, and it is interesting that today was precisely the report of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, and among them my colleague György Szilágyi quoted Professor Gyula Bándi several times. I will do it on another subject, because it has written a resolution on the principle of the advocate of future generations on the protection of groundwater, which analyses on 22 pages the violation of the constitution of this whole substance and of some of its predecessors. The Deputy Ombudsman says that it is a cause for concern that the voice of those who speak for the freedom to set up wells in order to avoid their own costs is growing, while the Hungarian National Member of the International Association of Hydrogeologists, the Hungarian Hydrology Society, the Hungarian Water well drills Association, has given me a consistent professional opinion in recent days, reminding me that such an amendment could mean an increase in the risk of domestic drinking water supply. You're pushing this through Parliament right now. Here, several of my pro-government fellow Members praised the work of Gyula Bándi and the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. If it is true that you commend and take into account the opinion of a university professor, a professor of environmental law, then take all the sections in this regard, as well as the withdrawal of services involving chimney sweeps or chimney sweeps, the removal of this salad from here, the dismantling of this salad in appropriate areas, and the return here so that we can have a meaningful professional debate about it. [[12.00]] Basically, the Ombudsman, Professor Bándi, mentions that the specifically designated part of our national heritage to be protected under Article P of the Fundamental Law is its protection, maintenance of the protection and sustainable management of surface and groundwater for future generations. Obviously, the question arises, not only in the Deputy Ombudsman, but also in me, that if you do not want to control something and let it out of your hands, how can you manage it sustainably. How does it happen? Here, in view of constitutional concerns, Gyula Bándi proposed to withdraw the T/15363 previously submitted, and after its contents have been reappeared in the T/17458 domestic salad, I can therefore do nothing but argue that it is not the conspiracy of the opposition, but the opinions of professionals, professional organisations, trade representatives and environmental experts on the subject, please withdraw their legislative initiatives in this respect. I'm asking you to take this salad back, take it apart, and discuss it. Let us look at what is positive, and Parliament can agree that it can help Hungary's natural resources to be used in a sustainable way, and what makes it completely inappropriate. In addition, I would like to ask that, either by drawing up the Kvassay plan, or by taking up other issues concerning water management, an early professional thinking should begin and reacting only and exclusively to war situations, when our Prime Minister can draw rubber boots and take masculine steps on dams, and more cameras can take it, beyond the fact that there is such a situation, how to ensure the safety of Hungary's floods in the long term, how to protect areas in the protected part of the settlements along the river, and how to manage the water supply in addition to that, so that such initiatives can be justified, which now can benefit only a few billionaires in Hungary, and the 10-20-30-40 major management, who would be obliged to supply water at this stage at present. This legislation does not serve the interests of Hungary, it does not serve the interests of the sustainable use of the Carpathian Basin, it does not serve the interests of Hungarian society, accordingly, the May Other is the political faction, despite some positive elements contained in the salad, it will certainly not be able to support it in this form. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-04-34	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask my fellow Members if they still wish to speak within the framework of this agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, who wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2017-10-04-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members who spoke on behalf of Fidesz and the KDNP faction for their support for this proposal, so Miklós Simon, on behalf of Fidesz, and my fellow Member Mátyás Firtl, on behalf of KDNP, expressed his support for this proposal. Thank you very much, and I would ask you to support the proposals in the vote as well. Several of my opposition colleagues have also voiced criticism as to why we are discussing these proposals together. I regret that Mr Harangozó was not here at the beginning of my expozem, because I said that, on the one hand, the regulation of the house makes this joint negotiation possible, all the more so, because the provisions creating consistency with the new administrative statute are contained in both proposals. I would like to highlight this and reiterate it here, before this House, in my reply. What Mr Bellozó expressed in his speech and in the comments of almost all opposition representatives was a criticism of the chimney sweeping activity. That is what I would like to respond to in the first place. Here, they attacked, criticized or disagreed that in the future these activities could be carried out on the basis of the owner's order in single-dwelling real estate, in Hungarian and in family houses. I would like to underline that the inspection will not cease, because this is demagogy, which you have claimed. These checks will not be terminated at family houses, single-dwelling properties, but will be carried out on the basis of the owner's order, on the basis of the agreement of the owner with the provider in the future. While international outlooks have been mentioned here, in Austria, Germany, there is an annual chimney check, but it is also on order. So I would like to say how the neighbouring countries in Austria, Germany, have grown... - Mr Szilágyi, Member, referred to the increase in fire alarms. We say that this shows an increase in the preparedness of the population, that people pay more attention to their own safety, and that, in all its manifestations, disaster control communicates that they should call for help even in case of suspicion of CO. It should also be said that the tests show that the carbon monoxide related deaths are mainly due not to the state of the chimneys but to the extremely bad condition of the combustion plants, which can be traced back to the fact that previously the public service operators did not fully carry out the checks. [[In the box behind the Jobbik fraction, representatives of the National Union of Hungarian Chimney Sweeps stand up and turn their backs. To Károly Szilágyi György Kontra: That's their opinion!]] Our experience, therefore, is that the main problem is not due to the failure of the combustion product draining state. [[György Szilágyi: This is the opinion of the tradesman, Mr Secretary of State. Look over there.]] Instead, possible lack of maintenance of the heating and combustion plants, failure or inadequate air supply. The Jobbik will lead the production, and I wish you good luck. [[Intervention by representatives of the National Trade Union of Hungarian Chimney Sweeps in the box behind the Jobbik faction: The profession! The profession!]] There is no register of farming organisations because chimney sweeping service providers carry out chimney checks on business organisations and these data are available from the business register. I would like to clarify some specific information about the deaths in the context of chimney fire. I predict that all deaths are unacceptable, every death that has occurred is one more than acceptable, so this is our basic position. Let's look at the data. Therefore, there was no death in 2015 in the context of chimney fire, 1 in 2016 and no such death in 2017. With regard to CO leaks, the number of deaths decreased, I'd say data. In 2012, the number of cases was 191, 235 were injured, 11 and 14 respectively; in 2013, 375 of 324 were injured, 11 cases and 13 were fatal; in 2014, 355 were injured, 9 and 12 were dead; in 2015, 407 were injured, 8 and 9 were dead; in 2016 there were 538, 393, 13 and 17; in 2017, 182 were injured, 6 and 8 were dead. I wanted to say these things as a fact, and our basic position is that a death is unacceptable, and experts in disaster management are working to ensure that no death occurs. I would ask my fellow Members not to make use of these deaths for political gain, honourable Member. [[Anita Beringes intervenes.]] As regards further comments on chimney sweeping, Tamás Harangozó, then Ádám Mirkóczki, and Márta Demeter also opposed György Szilágyi. We would like to stress that these controls are still possible and we encourage everyone to make use of them, which is in the interests of the people, so there is no need to pay for the reduction of the costs and to negotiate dates with the service providers. Based on previous experience, these proposals have been made to ensure that people have access to this monitoring as quickly as possible and as easily as possible. So the goal is not not to have control, but to get control as quickly as possible, to achieve the greatest security. [[12.10]] After all, the aim of this government is to guarantee the safety of the Hungarian people, as is the case with regard to public security and all aspects of security, and this will be the case. [[György Sziâlágyi: Look at the number of deaths!]] I would like to say that the material has been sent, the bill has been sent to the advocacy organisations, the National Association of Chimney Sweeps. [[Interviews from representatives of the National Trade Union of Hungarian Chimney Sweeps in the box behind the Jobbik fraction.]] And we've asked for their opinion on this. I would also like to underline that today, only properly trained, equipped chimney sweepers and skilled workers are employed in disaster management, they perform well; we risk more than previous providers. There have also been chimney checks in places where no chimney sweeps have been for decades. There is continuous clarification of inaccurate or incomplete chimney registers provided by service providers. The professional organizations, I repeat, have received the material for consultation, the Association of Hungarian Chimney Sweepers and the National Organization of Chimney Sweepers. [[Representative of the National Trade Union of Hungarian Chimney Sweeps in the box behind the Jobbik faction: Secretary of State, I'm sitting here, don't be silly.]] I would also like to underline and emphasise here in this House that the chimney states which are now being checked by the people of disaster protection have been inherited as a result of the work of previous decades, and in this situation we must do the responsible work that is ahead of them. In the interests of all Hungarians, in the interests of the safety of all Hungarians, I would like everyone to take advantage of this opportunity in the family houses and single-dwelling properties in the future, and everyone would order this service. We also see that this is for the safety of the people, as high-quality control must be for the safety of the people. I would also like to point out that there is a way for Members or factions to disagree with the bill and to submit proposals for amendments. I call on my fellow Members to take this opportunity. I can promise you that the Ministry of Interior will examine all proposals, as it has done, and will decide on their eligibility for the future. [[György Szilágyi: Submitted!]] Thank you very much. I would like to respond to Mr Adam Mirkóczki's comment on migration. He said there's no siege on the southern border. There is no siege, but the danger has not passed. It can be said that there is no day in which they do not attempt to enter the territory of Hungary illegally, in violation of the law at the southern border. The latest route, by the way, is the migration route... - so the smugglers are working with thousands, and the latest route is through Romania, through the Black Sea, Romania, the smugglers are trying to get illegal migrants to Hungary. I would like to reassure everyone that the Hungarian border protection works, the border lock works, the legal border lock and the physical border lock works. We maintain this, because this is essential for the safety of Hungarian people. I also thank Mónika Bartos for his contribution, who also supported the proposal. I reiterate to Mr György Szilágyi that we have included the relevant interest representatives in the preparation. I would like to say, with regard to Mr Sallai R. Benedek's passionate contribution, that responsible water management is taking place in Hungary today. You can experience that. If, by the way, you have any criticism of the amendment or of the bill, you have a proposal to make an amendment. I would like to say that I am sorry, Mr Tamás Harangozó, that when you are on the government, you forget this great truth that you should increase the salaries of those in the public service. We were left with everything because between 2002 and 2010 there was no substantial increase. We have been left with the increase of teachers, health workers, law enforcement, soldiers, workers in the social sector. We are talking about the water sector, and we still have a lot of work to do in this regard, as we see it, but it is clear that the capacity of the national economy needs to be adapted. By the way, I would also like to thank you for your work on water management. High-quality, highly trained professionals perform this very important activity. We appreciate their activity not only when there is trouble, but also in times of peace, so to speak. That is what this proposal is about. So I'm asking you to support this. I would like to highlight one more thing, and this is Hst. Amendment 1 to the Act on Law Enforcement, a further 5% increase in the salary of law enforcement professionals, which will enter into force from 1 January 2018. This means that if Parliament adopts this bill, the salary will increase by an additional 5 percent on average. This means that we are already at 45% on the 50 percent average salary increase promised, so we are fulfilling our promises. I call on my fellow Members to support this proposal. One moment, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is very important that we have had a general debate on the negotiation of two legislative proposals. I would ask everyone to make use of the opportunity to submit amendments and to support the proposals for the future, as they serve as a goal which, on the one hand, leads to greater respect for the safety of Hungary and, on the other hand, for professional workers in the water sector serving for the safety of Hungarian people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-04-36	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Following the 2011 Environmental Product Award LXXXV. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/17569. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, rapporteur of the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-04-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The government submitted its proposal to the Parliament to amend the Environmental Product Fee Act. The environmental product fee is an economic regulator aimed at encouraging the efficient use of our resources, preventing waste generation and increasing waste efficiency. In addition to the efforts to protect the environment, the changes to the 2015 and 2016 environmental product tariff rules focused on measures to reduce entrepreneurship. The amendments made it easier for thousands of farmers to fulfil their obligations. We continued this direction in 2017 when the amendment was adopted or started. Dear House, The draft includes provisions aimed at reducing the administrative and economic burden on the parties responsible for implementing environmental objectives, ensuring consistency with domestic legislation and reducing the administrative burden of interpretation. According to the bill, a higher product fee will be paid from 2018 onwards for environmentally undesirable advertising papers and plastic bags that are harmful to the environment. The objective of the measure is to change consumer habits and to shift them towards alternative solutions that are more favourable to the environment. We live in a consumer society, we say, where marketing is increasingly violent, and the side effects of this process are the flooding of mailboxes with advertising newspapers and leaflets. From 2015 we raised the product fee for advertising paper by 33 percent with a view to achieving a reduction in the use of advertising paper. At the same time, despite higher product charges, mailboxes continue to be full of unsolicited paper advertising newspapers and flyers. These papers, which are produced by means of significant energy and water, by cutting trees, are typically carried out immediately in the trash bin, where appropriate, without being read, so they cannot achieve their original purpose. [[12.20]] In our continuously developing world, the number of electronic alternatives for the transmission of information is increasing, giving us the opportunity to gradually reduce the environmental burden of paper advertising, seeking to end it. To this end, the proposal further increases the product fee for advertising paper, trusting that the 114 HUF/kilogram burden will be able to stop the increase in use and reduce the production of waste paper. Dear Parliament, The bill also increases the product fee for plastic bags. A significant proportion of plastic bags become waste immediately after use and are not re-used once. In more favourable cases, it ends up in the separate plastic waste collection and is returned to the material circulation, but unfortunately, a significant part of it is being disposed of or even worse directly into the environment. Plastics in so many areas of life help our lives, make them more comfortable, but once they become waste, they hide an unexpected risk, which threatens not only us but also the generations after us. According to experts, the time of degradation of plastic bags is hundreds of years. Even more worrying, however, is the fact that, without drastic measures, by 2050, there will be more plastic waste in the ocean than fish. Plastic released into nature is consumed by certain animal species for food, not only because of the destruction of animal species, but especially because of the inclusion of plastic waste in the food chain and ultimately also in our food and drinking water. However, many questions regarding the effects of plastic pollution are still unanswered. Hungary took measures in 2011 to reduce the number of plastic bags years ahead of the European Union's regulation. In 2012 the product fee is 1800 HUF/kilogram, and from 2015 1900 HUF/kilogram is the product fee for plastic shopping bags. The results achieved are striking. Since then, we have been given free plastic bags in very few shops, with approximately 50 percent reduction in sales of plastic bags. This also increased in proportion to the number of conscious customers using a multi-use and, where appropriate, non-plastic shopping bag. So, together with the customers, we took a big step to create less plastic waste. This proposal includes the next stage of the action. In the regulation of the product fee, plastic shopping advertising bags are separated from plastic bags of similar thickness in the sales area, i.e. bulk packages intended to be filled in shops and used for primary packaging of bulk foodstuffs. According to the present proposal, from 1 January 2018 the highest rate of 1900 HUF/kilogram should be paid instead of the current 57 HUF/kilogram for plastic bags. I would like to stress that the amendment does not affect very thin plastic bags that are typically used for packaging vegetables, fruit and bakery products. In order to replace these very thin bags, continuous expert work is being carried out at Community level to find alternative solutions. Dear Parliament, In addition, the draft aims at reducing the marketing of particularly dangerous, oxidativeally fragmented plastic bags for the environment. In the case of such a bag, additives are added to traditional plastic. The presence of these additives causes the plastic to disintegrate over time into small particles, which remain in the environment, do not break down biologically, and fragmentation makes it impossible to collect. The risk of plastic entering the food chain is also increased as a result of fragmentation. For all these reasons, we want to banish this product and therefore, regardless of its size, this proposal also bears the highest product price of 1900 forints per kilogram of oxidativeally tiny plastic bags. Dear House, In the last hundred years, transport has become part of our daily lives, and in response to the growing demands for mobility, the number of transport modes has changed enormously, and the number of motor vehicles has also increased sharply. Unfortunately, the process is accompanied by an increase in emissions of air pollutants, which affects not only the environment but also human health. With the support of e-mobility, the government is taking decisive steps to ensure that environmental aspects, in addition to functional and comfort elements, are given priority in the development of motor vehicles. In support of the country's targets for electric car driving, we have to pay 50 percent for pure electric cars and 30 percent less for hybrid cars from 2018. Dear Parliament, In addition to measures to prevent pollution of the environment, the legislative proposal also helps to reduce the burden on entrepreneurs. The measure concerning metal drinking cans reduces the administrative burden and the fee payable by the farmers concerned is reduced to less than one fifth. On the basis of the 2016 data, more than one hundred companies are positively affected by this amending provision. Products subject to product charges can currently be identified on the basis of the headings in force on 1 January 2010. Accountant programmes used by farmers are typically used at the same time for the treatment of a time condition in respect of headings. This is why legislative compliance can be ensured by keeping a multi-level register. With a view to standardising the registration obligation per tax type, the product fee regime will move to the application of the rules on the regulation of goods in force on 1 January of the year in question, which will further simplify the registration of the defendants. The financial burden of more than 2 thousand farmers is reduced by the provision which reduces the cost of each electrical electronic equipment. Currently, the fee is 114 HUF/kilogram for entertainment electronics and dosing machines, 304 HUF/kilogram for radiotelephones, 57 HUF/kilogram for all other electrical and electronic equipment subject to product charges. From 2018 onwards, all electrical and electronic equipment shall be subject to the lowest charge in the product scope. Dear House, During the annual review of the Product Charges Act, we also take into account the legal interpretation issues that have been raised in all cases. The amending proposal clarifies the definition of product codes and related provisions for the collection of advertising paper, office paper and separate waste in order to facilitate the precise definition of debtors and obligations and to ensure control conditions. The amendment also makes it clear that, in the event of succession, it is necessary to conclude new contracts for the acceptance of the product fee obligation and to notify the National Tax and Customs Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, the bill before Parliament serves the country's environmental interests, supports businesses' everyday life by reducing economic and administrative burdens, and simplifies the interpretation of law and the application of law. I ask that, on the basis of the reasons stated, the Parliament discuss and, if possible, accept our proposal. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[12.30]]
u2017-10-04-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-10-04-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! When it comes to protecting the environment and the issue of sustainability, two concepts are certainly mentioned. One is the holistic approach and the other is the paradigm shift. One means that things, events, must not be isolated from everything, they must be viewed in themselves, but also in their context and process. In addition, it means that the solution, the answer to the problem, cannot be one-way. It should be comprehensive and require the joint involvement of the relevant actors and the involvement of society. And changing the paradigm means that everything is actually in your head. Our acts and patterns of conduct are influenced by our customs and values, so it is important that the unity of human and nature's coexistence, which holds both of them, is given the proper emphasis in our decisions. This development, the transformation of values, is a slow process, and it takes time and life to learn. I welcome the bill before us because I think you have both goals in mind. On the one hand, it proposes holistic solutions involving many players, offering more tools, and on the other hand, it also seeks to shape consumer habits by charging a higher product price for plastic bags in the sales area and plastic bags in the oxidative way. As Mr Secretary of State has said, we have achieved very great results in this area, exemplary results, but, as has been said, plastic products, including plastic bags, are a heavy burden for the environment. Many of my fellow Members know that I am a member of the National Presidency of the Interparlamental Union, so in my capacity I have the opportunity to attend UN events and conferences, where the representatives of legislation and implementation together try to find solutions to the most serious issues affecting humanity. Thus, I have had the opportunity to hear from representatives of Scandinavian and coastal countries, and heartbreaking visual narratives about the contamination of the ocean and marine ecosystems, mainly with plastic bags. It happens many times that fish or seabirds and mammals have more plastic bags in their stomachs than food, if any. In view of this, it is even more horrifying to see that by changing consumer habits we can easily switch to multiple-use bags, such as textile bags, as many have already done. Mr Secretary of State also mentioned in his exposé the measures taken to reduce the amount of advertising paper that is harmful to the environment. This objective of the bill deserves only recognition. Indeed, hundreds of tons of these advertising publications go into the bins without the target having read them. If we also take into account the electronic possibilities of spreading information and see how much waste is produced in the form of leaflets and newspapers, then we can say that this is a form of pollution that is often unnecessary and pointless and that is worth reducing as much as possible. If thinking is an important aspect and we bear in mind the use of words in practice, the part of the proposal that concerns electric and hybrid cars is very forward-looking, since 50 percent and 30 percent less product fees for these cars greatly help them spread, and that people should even remember, they should be able to choose vehicles with such drives. But in fact, it is true in all areas of life, but in the field of environmental protection, sustainability, it is certain that we can only achieve results as a team, if those concerned feel interested in acting for common goals, if they succeed in achieving them by means of regulations and by means of solutions, so that the obligations arising from responsible thinking are not a burden, but make everyday life easier. That is why I think it is important to take the measures that Mr Secretary of State has described in detail, starting with the reduction of administrative burdens, through the simplification of the keeping of records, until the clarification of their product products or the reduction of the fee for certain electrical and electronic equipment. It is also intended to address and involve stakeholders in the solution that, in the event of succession, it is necessary to conclude new contracts for the acceptance of a product fee obligation and to notify the National Tax and Customs Office. It is clear from Mr State Secretary's words and from the study of the proposal that we have a comprehensive, solution-centred proposal, and I therefore encourage my fellow Members to accept it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-04-40	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The MSZP group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes. Here you go.
u2017-10-04-41	Thank you very much for the floor. I am sorry that Mr Zsigo had to leave, because he gave the Government's opinion on this legislative proposal in the first round. You left out one little thing that's gonna make it impossible to support this proposal. At several points there are things that are forward-looking, at several points there are questions that we are modifying, which could be fundamentally agreed with. The only thing you forgot to explain, Secretary of State, is that from 2018 onwards, from the current HUF 85 to HUF 114, the product charge per kilogram will be raised on advertising newspapers and leaflets, but there is an exception in this proposal. Among the exceptions, interestingly, in the year before the election year, there will be the next little thing, which is not so small, if you think about it well that advertising newspapers, if not a company, but a public benefit organization, state, i.e. a government or local government body, are issued and declared for basic tasks, then you do not have to pay a product fee at all. Do we understand that, from now on, there will be no product charges for postcards and advertising papers issued by the CF, so that election propaganda becomes tax-free? I think, even if we are benevolent about these issues, this is all that can come out of the government's steps over the past period, that this includes the fact that in the next period, everyone else's product fees will increase on advertising papers, except for the organisations that belong to the government, or to the local government, or, by the way, some public benefit organization, such as the CF. We think it's not an elegant move, it's not a fair move. And when there really are steps and modifications that could still be supported, why do you have to include an exception that would make it impossible for a man of good sense to support this proposal? This is a terrible feeling, precisely because most of my fellow Members would really see the potential in it. But with the exceptions, you're forcing us to make a decision where we have to say that we can't support this with a good heart. Even if it were eligible for a significant increase in the product fee for plastic bags per kilo in the retail space. Obviously, we also need to find the right solutions for this, because lifelikeness shows that there must be a bag in which you can place your pastries and vegetables, and you need to create the opportunity for people to take their products home because of hygiene, precisely because of that. But obviously we have to come up with solutions to what Sallai R. Benedek said on the previous agenda that at our previous committee meeting on the Tisza, we have listened to the experts sitting there that there is a very big problem in Hungary as well. After all, the fish living in Hungarian waters also have these decaying plastic bags, and they are very, very small in size. But it causes such damage to Hungarian nature that it is something incredible, and they do not see the exact solutions either. That is why I say that there is a proposal in this area that is, of course, eligible. It's just that we shouldn't put in little things that, in the election campaign for the next period, give the government an extra chance and take away opportunities from every other democratic organization. [[12.40]] Because this can be exploited, and it can be abused, and even if there is a secretary of state sitting at this table who I do not think would abuse any of the cases, but there are many people who, unfortunately, I do not think are willing to present such a proposal to us. Therefore, our faction will not support this legislative amendment proposal. We will submit an amendment, in which we will delete this exception, because then let us be fair and apply it to everyone.
u2017-10-04-42	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, another lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-10-04-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The product fee has two basic functions. One is to shape consumer habits, and not only do I mean the customer, but in a broader sense, the consumption habits, because for example, if a decomposing, very thin plastic bag should not be charged a product fee, while the other, which is clearly environmentally harmful, should pay much more for a plastic product with a low degradation over hundreds of years, not only for the consumer who buys the goods, but also for the person who brings it into consumption, so this could mean an orientation from the manufacturer, the trader. So one of them is specifically a product structure influence factor. The other half is clearly the budget revenue, which is quite well controlled, since these products appear in legal circulation, so that the quantity and the product charge for them can be collected very accurately. What is important in this regard is how this product charge is used by the government. Because we believe that it is appropriate that revenue from the environmental sector, i.e. product fee revenue, should be devoted to the tasks of recycling, recycling and cleaning of nature. Therefore, I believe that the other side of this could be, for example, government spending supporting collection. Now, I don't want to give you a cheap vibe about how much the government let go of in the field of companies and sports last year, 135 billion, but if those who collect these plastic waste, if they had a unit price for buying it back, helped us, there would be a lot less harmful substances scattered into our environment, into nature, there would be a lot less damage, and somewhere there would be a sense that this would be okay if, where there is selective collection, separate collection, or simply not into nature, it could be passed on somewhere. With regard to the adoption of the bill, the simplification of compliance with the product fee obligation, the reduction of administrative and other entrepreneurship burdens, the uniform interpretation of the law and the change of the EU directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment require that the proposal be discussed by the Hungarian Parliament, and therefore, on the basis of this bill, the product fee for environmentally undesirable plastic bags and advertising paper products will be increased, the standardization of the registration obligation per tax, and a widely known numbering system will be introduced, which makes it quite clear. The definition of advertising paper, literary paper and separate waste collection bags and the clarification of the related provisions are clarified. It may also be clear that this may not be the way in which the conclusion of new contracts for the acceptance of the product fee obligation will take place in the case of succession, and how this will be introduced and required by the National Tax and Customs Office. Otherwise, it would be very right for them to be able to demand the continuity of such obligations. In line with the EU Directive obligation, categories of electrical and electronic equipment will be changed, which will reduce or reduce the cost of the product for each equipment as ancillary effect. The proposal also proposes an interesting exception, as my fellow Member, Anita Heringes, mentioned, that by chance, only the range of advertising newspapers that are being paid for either government propaganda or municipal information - let's be good faith - will not receive the product prize. We believe that environmental stress in all cases is an environmental burden, whoever does this, and that should not be an exception. The government is spending enough of its taxpayers' money on government propaganda, stealing less of it for certain Rogan friends, and then paying the product price. So this, in order to support an otherwise socially unaccepted, politically incorrect, ethically indefensible government activity on another branch, even by reducing the product fee, is the top of the incompetence. So I don't think a good person can accept that. I mean, there's a side effect that all people who are committed to the environment feel about discrediting the cause of environmental protection. So anyone who would otherwise be committed to protecting the environment in terms of the development of the product charging system will be discouraged even by making such political and unethical terms. As regards the charge on electric cars, it should be considered in the long term, because the government has made a mistake, for example, to levy a product charge on components of alternative energy-producing equipment; it would be justified, by its nature, to be free from product charges, because the whole is in the service of environmental protection and clean energy production. Here, these shades of 50 percent exemption, 30 percent exemption, and the effects of such environmental items, I think it might express some intention, but it would be more important for the government to help by other means, and especially in the area of public transport, the spread of alternative drives. Because it is very nice that the government supports a 15 million-dollar small car, which very few people can buy, and a couple of people are driving around in the city, of course, it also cleans the air, but if a bus capable of receiving 60 passengers could drive an electric car, it would have a much greater impact in terms of environmental and conscious formation. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-10-04-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Földi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. [[12.50]]
u2017-10-04-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The introduction of an environmental product charge is a consistent enforcement of the principle that the polluter pays. Of course, it would be optimal if the polluter were not contaminated, but we need packaging products, electronics equipment, tyres, chemical products, plastic products, office paper, but the question is how much, and in the meantime, we think about what damage we are doing to the environment by using them, storage, transportation, sales. The product fee is intended partly to prevent and partly to reduce these damages. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The 2011 Environmental Product Award LXXXV. The current amendment of the Act not only serves to protect the environment, but also facilitates the everyday life of thousands of businesses by reducing economic and administrative burdens. The adoption of the bill is justified by the simplification of compliance with the obligation to pay a product fee, the reduction of administrative and other entrepreneurship burdens, and, as many of my fellow Members have said, the EU directives have changed and are adapted to it. Some important points that we KDNPs consider important in the bill, which has already been mentioned by several fellow Members, Secretary of State: increasing the rate of the product fee for plastic bags and advertising paper that are in the sales and oxidative way; raising it to the ceiling; or making it equally important in relation to the proliferation of electric vehicles that electric cars, hybrid cars, will have to pay 30 percent less product fees from 2018; or we also agree with the proposal on electronic product charges. We also consider it important to introduce the definition of a metal beverage packer as of 1 January, thus removing the administrative burden and reducing the current fee of HUF 304 per kilogram payable by the farmers concerned to HUF 57 per kilogram. We consider it very important that, as of 1 January, the existing section rules will also be changed. Products subject to a product charge may be identified on the basis of headings. For the purpose of standardising the registration obligation per tax type, the product fee regime will move to the application of the classification rules in force on the 1 January of the year in question, which means further simplification for the defendants with regard to the keeping of the register. The amending proposal clarifies the definition of product codes and related provisions for the collection of advertising paper, office paper and separate waste. The draft law aims to bring consistency to the new regulatory environment of the tax administration from 1 January 2018. In view of the fact that the Tax Act is the underlying legislation of product tariff regulation, the consistency of legislation must be established. The bill also includes this measure. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment of the Environmental Product Fee Act is necessary because we have to make the market produce or use less plastic bags and advertising paper, because they are particularly harmful to our environment. This is why KDNP is in favour of paying a higher fee for such products. At the same time, we also support the simplification of the keeping of registers, as it is in our common interest to limit the bureaucratic obstacles to the payment of the fee. We also consider it important to make a change that prevents the successor from getting out of the obligation of his predecessor to pay a product fee. For KDNP, the priority is the protection of the environment, the prevention and reduction of damage caused by dangerous products. We believe that the consistent implementation of the polluter-pays principle, the simplification of the procedure for charging and tax collection are steps that ultimately serve the long-term sustainable well-being of the most important instruments, the common interest, the natural environment and man. At the same time, as a general lesson, we are also making an important entry on the subject. The number of public regulatory instruments for environmental protection is finite. In order to achieve these goals, manufacturers, traders and ultimately consumers also need to change their perceptions and habits, not just simpler, clearer and stricter laws. We hope that the spirit of the legislation will also radiate to this mind-forming. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the KDNP, I am expressing our support for the amendment of the product fee bill, and I call on my fellow Members to vote in favour of achieving the objectives of the legislation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-04-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Lajos Kepli. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-10-04-47	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us start with what has been discussed less so far, and partly on behalf of the MSZP Group, which is not part of this proposal for the environment, because it is really useful to reduce the amount of plastic bags and shopping bags by charging a higher product price, and indeed we are flooded with plastic waste at the necessary level of government to handle it, but one of our objections is that it is difficult to talk about an environmental regulator when the revenues from the environmental product fee flow into the central state register and are not necessarily used for environmental and waste prevention purposes. Indeed, there is a regulatory power to impose a higher product charge on some of their product products, even by influencing consumption patterns, but this alone is not entirely the goal that, at the time when the Environmental Product Fee Act was adopted, they set themselves the goal of increasing the proportion of waste recycling, shaping a view, and continuing education and training activities in the field of waste reduction. This is no longer happening today, it functions as a central tax revenue, increases central tax revenues, but the waste management sector, during the recycling industry, is dying and does not function properly in Hungary. The second is that what they want to achieve with this law is the double standard that has always been typical of government legislation at the time of this government's regency, namely that some products - which I aim at advertising papers - are subject to environmental product charges, otherwise quite rightly, because they are actually flooding our mailbox and other advertising documents are excluded from the environmental product fee. The question is indeed the double standard, because we did not get a clear answer from the national exposure - I hope, and then in the closing line - why the legislation has been changed so far not to be classified as advertising paper at all, and even the law explicitly stressed that it does not fall within the concept of advertising medium paper, which is published by a public-use organisation, a public-use body or a municipal body as part of its basic task, is now deleted from the legislation, instead it has been introduced that it is otherwise subject to product charges, but it does not have to be paid if the defendant places on the market an advertising medium, uses it for its own use or supplies, which is intended to distribute commercial advertising for up to 50 percent of its total printed surface, or which is issued in the basic function of a public-use organisation, a state-government body. So the previous regulation, which is still in force, says that it does not belong to the category of advertising paper, which is issued by a government body under its core task, and now it says that it is classified as advertising paper if it is intended to distribute up to 50 percent of economic advertising, but which it otherwise issues under its basic task, but does not have to pay the product fee. [[13.00]] There is a very large difference, and it is also a publication of a public body on the basis of its basic tasks. So once again the question arises, the Product Charge Act will enter into force on 1 January, whether we will not end up with these technical, legal barrage twists, that the materials issued as government propaganda and municipal propaganda will not be subject to product charges, but everything else, which, whether for economic purposes or not, presents an opposition programme, will be subject to the product fee requirement for the election campaign, i.e. 115 forints per kilogram of opposition publications, while Fidesz will be able to do so as government and local government free of charge. This is where I see the huge risk of this proposal, because it is a double standard. We can say that the mailboxes will be burdened unnecessarily from now on, but then the three million totally unnecessary, pointless national consultation questionnaires will also be sent around again by the government to the mailboxes, which I do not think are sane people in Hungary, who would not respond in one way or another. If someone was asked if they wanted George Soros to install one million immigrants in Europe every year, there would be no sane person who would say yes, regardless of political party standing, but they would still bomb millions of copies of our mailboxes with questions such as this. Now, this is the real pollution, and with this it could be, I think, to create environmental awareness in Hungary if they did not at least issue paper questionnaires in such unnecessary matters. Put this online, and in the form of an online questionnaire who wants to answer it. But they can get to the mailboxes without any obstacles, while we are really beginning to find out that what is trying to convey opposition messages through TV or radio - the Internet may still be the only surface where we are free to do so, but even the giant posters are being disabled, there is a struggle on the streets, there is almost a physical close-up in order to see who can publish a message on a billboard and who is not and who is becoming less and less able to send our message to the voters. And then here is a bill that, if it is clearly not disproved, cannot be ruled out, it may include being exempted from the product fee as a government and municipal publication, while in any other form, or, say, a publication issued by a opposition party, but becomes subject to a product fee, a competitive disadvantage in Hungarian, if you like, a double standard. They are already trying to make the opposition impossible in every way they can, but even in this way they are increasing this burden. By the way, if you think of this, you will not generate any additional revenue from the state, since you are transferring money from one pocket to another, because in a party operating from budgetary sources, if you pay the environmental product fee with budget money, what really happens is that you are transferring these funds from one pocket to another, so there is no real sense here to talk about surplus tax revenue, at most about a redeployment. However, freedom of expression and freedom of expression can already be strongly influenced by limited resources, especially for opposition parties. Timed for a campaign period for the entry into force of such a bill, even if we believe 100% that it is only for environmental purposes, it is not too ethical. So I would like to expect such a reassuring response from the Secretary of State, if not first, in his closing statement, but I would like you to do it first if those opposition publications in the election campaign or not to talk about opposition publications, let us talk about election newspapers, leaflets, any other publications issued by any party in Hungary on behalf of the party, which are not issued by a state or a local government body, will be subject to product charges or not. We have already seen this in the previous campaign that it was limited in different ways, who might or may not post political advertising, and while public messages, so to say public messages, social advertisements, could be published without any restriction, until political advertising was severely restricted, and thus abused, the governing party was able to conduct a campaign propaganda disguised as a government for social purposes, either in public television or on any other platform. To this I would like to compare, in this bill, the restriction of this kind, which is disguised as environmental protection, if this is indeed going to happen. So I would like to get an answer to that in particular, and whether this change really means that now a publication published under the basic tasks of a public or municipal body can contain up to 50 percent of commercial advertising. So, in practice, if it is issued by a State or a local government, even though it contains commercial advertising for economic purposes in a proportion of almost half, say, or even 50 percent, it is not necessary to pay the environmental product fee, whereas if a profit-oriented company does so, then this product fee must be paid, then again it would be a rather interesting double standard or restriction. If a public or municipal body performs its basic task, whether it is a public authority, whether it is a local government or a ministry, whether it is the government itself, do not put commercial advertising in its publication, or, if it does, at least not exempt from payment of the product fee on this basis. If you publish commercial advertising once for economic purposes, you should be subject to a product charge if you do not disclose commercial advertising, only public or social information, but you do not have to, because it is a public benefit task, and you do not have to pay an environmental product fee for it, whether it is a local newspaper of a settlement - although they usually contain commercial advertisements for financing reasons only - but also for an information newsletter or anything else. So this is our main concern about this law, and until this concern is clearly clarified, we cannot support it with a good conscience and even support it at all, despite the fact that we do not have a problem with its environmental objectives. I am saying this as the environmental policyr of Jobbik, we cannot have a problem with its environmental objectives, as they are fully eligible if they achieve their objective, but of course we will only know this afterwards when the legislation comes into force. It's just, the problem is, it's always happened a lot, hiding behind some noble goal, some kind of mean political intent. It was carried through the National Assembly with some kind of shadyness, and later it was read to the opposition that, yes, you did not support it when we tried to stop the spread of advertising leaflets or the spread of plastic bags, because Jobbik is not a green party and does not support them. This is not the case, of course it is not, but we will certainly not support self-limiting. So if this proves later that here, preparing for the election campaign, they want to put some new restrictions on opposition parties and on Jobbik's neck, we will not support it. Let the standard be equal: either everyone pays or no one pays, but we will no longer support such distinction. Of course, what is an environmental initiative, which serves to reduce the amount of waste produced in Hungary, or to increase the amount of recycled waste, or to reduce waste from landfills, any waste management tool that serves these purposes, will serve environmental education purposes, we will continue to support it in any case. This bill - then I look forward to the Secretary of State's reply - until this issue is clarified, we cannot support it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-04-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As the LMP does not make use of the opportunity to speak, we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. No one has made a statement and the general debate is closed. I'm asking who of the secretary of state will answer and do they even want to take advantage of the opportunity to answer. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Mr István Nagy, State Secretary, on behalf of the authors. Here you go. You have the floor. [[13.10]]
u2017-10-04-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, We have a bill ahead of us that I was very happy to hear. And I was very happy to hear the debate, because if we break down the political nuances, the different colors, then there can be a clear support from all parties, and we have heard, we have seen that with the intention of the law, with its fundamental provisions, almost everyone agrees without exception. Everyone can make different assumptions according to their own habitus, but I must tell you that this law is about what you thought with a pure mind for the first time about it, namely, that we pay much more attention to our environment, that our environment is much better protected. And I fully agree with the speech that we have said that the product fee itself serves, on the one hand, to shape consumption and shopping habits, and indeed our aim is to help protect our environment as much as possible. Thank you very much for the words of Mónika Bartos. And thank you for the contributions from the MSZP, as they themselves acknowledge that they see progress on many points. I have to address the concerns about whether a product price should be paid or the item that applies to fully renewable packaging materials should be increased: there is absolutely no payment and no payment has been made since 1 January 2017. And we would like to reassure both the MSZP and Jobbik, which see different ulterior motives in the law: there is no such ulterior motive at all. I think it is quite possible to consider the need to support electric buses. I would like to point out to my fellow Member that we are talking about a motor vehicle and that we are talking about a bus car. If this distribution and spread of electric buses in Hungary will be much greater, then this will be a significant part of the intention. And allow me to say to Lajos Kepli that since the entry into force of the Act in 2012, the product scope of advertising paper has not included publications and periodicals published by public benefit organisations, public and municipal authorities. It is therefore completely wrong, and the conclusion is that the elections in 2018 have anything to do with it. So you don't have to assume anything that doesn't exist in this. And let me add that the concern that would have caused the emergence of various hygiene problems, i.e. the use of ultra-thin bags, even in bakery goods: of course, this is not an increase, since maintaining hygiene conditions, the promotion of all the cultural purchasing habits that we can maintain and promote, of course, that is the case. Our goal with this law is to ensure a better environmental status, and to shape the customer's and consumer packaging - this is infinitely important: packaging - habits with which we can take care of our environment, we can better protect it; and what is an ancient great task is to acknowledge that this Earth has only been borrowed from our grandchildren, and it is today's responsibility to give it back to them in a better state. This law is a mosaic, a foundation stone that we want to achieve this goal. I call on all responsible political parties, their representatives, to support with their votes the entry into force of this law, to act jointly - without debate and bias - to protect our environment. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-04-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. As a 21st century party, Jobbik faces the new challenges of the 21st century - II. Mr Gergely Farkas, Chairman of the Group, spoke after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[13.20]]
u2017-10-04-51	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to continue my series of speeches under Rule XXI. Against the challenges of the century. In the framework of this series, I would like to present to Parliament and the public the special programme of Jobbik, which we are prepared to face, ready for governance, the challenges that we face in the 21st century. The rapid and continuous changes of the century bring with them. Our firm position is that, in political terms, we have not yet crossed the 21st century. In the first century, it is time for the country to respond to modern technological, digital development, and even take advantage of them. Last time I saw the first episode, I called your attention to the more effective involvement of smart devices in school, because it is a XXI. We could go back to the top of the world with quality education in the first century. CHAPTER XXI 21st century challenges I would like to address the creation of an electronic electoral system in the spirit of the answers of the century. I think that if something is timely and necessary, then the introduction of the e-vote, which will be one of the pillars of the EPP governance of Jobbik. We enable all Hungarian citizens to vote electronically, whether they are cross-border or truncated. The question arises as to why the e-vote is timely and why it is necessary. Dear Parliament, I think that, above all, because it doesn't matter what the Hungarian government sends to Hungarians living abroad. There are two options: one is to count on them to build the country and to give them the opportunity to have a say in political life; Jobbik represents this position. The other, unfortunately represented at present by the Orbán government, has renounced emigrants, residents abroad, and has virtually deprived them of their right to vote. At present, as is well known, the right to vote in the letter only applies to those who do not have a Hungarian address. Those who have this, however, cannot vote in a letter, and many have no chance of participating in the elections because of work, material, or long-distance reasons. Even though we have submitted a resolution proposal to remedy this, even though the pro-government has voted against it. What kind of message is that? With this, Fidesz essentially gave up hundreds of thousands of our countrymen wandering abroad and said they weren't important to us. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to emigrants, the possibility of e-vote would be equally important and necessary for those living at home. Despite the fact that we are bringing justice to the electoral system through the e-vote, this new system can bring a number of benefits. With the introduction of the e-vote, the anomalies and problems of voting by letter could be resolved, and the conduct of elections would be much more cost-effective, faster, more precise and more convenient than the current paper form. In addition, it would increase the willingness to vote, especially among young people, who, unfortunately, are often characterised by passivity, and thus, if we could strengthen their activity, we could also promote democratic setting. The question may arise: why is it not in Fidesz' interest? I think that it is timely and necessary to create the conditions for the e-vote, and it is not a question that technological progress is pointing towards an electronic way of conducting elections. This is an example for us in Estonia, which was the first in the world to introduce the possibility of e-vote in the parliamentary elections in 2007. Some of us may have doubts about trust and reliability and anonymity in the context of the e-vote. I think that these doubts may be justified, responsible and reasonable at first, but the reliability and security of the system is also shown by the fact that in 2009 the European Union allowed the European Parliament elections in Estonia to be held with the involvement of the Internet voting system, and already 5.4 percent had this option at the time. Since then, it has been introduced and thought about the introduction of this system in a growing number of countries. Ladies and gentlemen, It is clear that, in fact, for the whole nation, regardless of whether it lives at a border or not, the possibility of an electronic voting system would be beneficial. Ultimately, it would strengthen democratic commitment, public activity, which would also be an unquestionably positive result of this new system. If anything, then this issue is not a party policy issue, it is a national issue. On this basis, it will hopefully introduce this opportunity on the Jobbik government as soon as possible, and we hope that this will increase the willingness to choose, and that this new system will bring benefits to everyone. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-04-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your week's work. The Parliament will meet next week at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed. I wish you all a good return home and a good seeing you on Monday. [[Meeting ended at 1:21 p.m.]]
