u2017-06-06-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 33rd day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and István Ikotity will be attending the meeting to help me. Welcome to our guests and all those who are monitoring our work. Dear Parliament, A week has barely passed since the last attack, and terror has struck Europe again: on Saturday, seven died and more than 40 were injured in London. If terror strikes again from week to week, we stand here, each week, steadfastly, to put faith in our common European values, to put faith in the end to terrorism. Our faith is unwavering and our common goal is to create a peaceful, secure Europe. The whole country sympathizes with relatives and the people of the United Kingdom. I ask the Honourable Parliament to pay a silent tribute to the victims' memory. [[The people present pay tribute to the victims with a silent standing.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Today we begin our work with speeches before the agenda, after which, from 11:50 a.m. to 13:20 a.m., and then from approximately 13:20 a.m. to 14:20 a.m., the hour of immediate questions and answers will take place. After that, we will continue our work with a political debate from approximately 14:20, and we will conclude the Parliament's meeting with the speech after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Member Lajos Korózs, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, applied for a pre-meeting address in the summer of 2017. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-06-06-1	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Dear House, Mr President, The five minutes before the agenda are not suitable for a longer discussion of the task of the state, but one thing is certain: it is one of the tasks of the state to provide its citizens with a framework and a life that fills people with solace. Whether the child is living in poverty or starving for the evening, or if he loses his job as to who was born, may his life or fate depend on whether he has made good or bad decisions in his life, or whether he has chosen his place of residence or his career well. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, In the spring of this year, an ascending retirement parlament was organised and conducted, and on numerous occasions we asked the participants to give their views and to interpret it at the national pension parlament on 17 May. We asked them whether it was okay that we no longer have social security in Hungary today, and that we would discuss the complete liquidation and integration of the Directorate-General for Pension Insurance in the Treasury in the last week of the spring session. We also asked the participants whether it was okay that there are no constitutional guarantees for the benefits that have been obtained so far, since the Fundamental Law regards only old-age pensions as pensions today. We also asked whether it was right that the municipalities were completely impossible, that the state did not provide them with sufficient resources, and that they could not solve the social problems that affect the people living there every day, including the elderly. It is not right, they said that housing aid has been abolished, because nearly half a million families have received financial support from the municipalities, and it is not right that debt management services have been terminated, because a lot of people, tens of thousands of people, are in a situation where it is up to a few thousand forints whether the gas is delivered or the electricity is tied, and, of course, it costs a lot more if the service provider is asked to reconnect either the electricity or the gas. We also asked whether it was okay that there was no regular social assistance, equal health care for the elderly, or equal care for the elderly. We, the Socialists, are convinced that these forms of support are necessary and that these forms of support must be provided to local authorities in order to be able to adapt flexibly to the situation on the ground. In contrast, in recent months, we have seen that there is a parenting institution where a child has to prove in court that the parent is unworthy of support, and that the parent has to prove to the court that the child has to contribute financially to the placement of the child, say, in a residential nursing home and to the payment of services. It is not right, because such a decision has been taken by the majority of the government, that today even in the elderly homes maintained by the state, you can ask for a one-time deposit of HUF 8 million, and they have tightened up the institution of home assistance so that it is practically impossible to get into it, or if someone is included, there will be an advantage for those who can pay more money for the service. Nor is it right that three or four years ago the ceiling was abolished, creating the possibility of a million-dollar pension. Indeed, there are conditions in Hungary today that the lowest old-age pension - which has been unchanged for the ninth year now - is more than 150 times the difference between the highest pension. It is not right that there are nearly 70,000 people in Hungary today whose retirement pension is less than HUF 50,000, and there are 330,000 elderly people whose pension-like care is less than HUF 50,000. Dear fellow Members, It should also be said here: two weeks ago, the minimum subsistence calculations were published, which, as is well known, are no longer carried out by the Government Statistical Office, and this shows that a single household of an elderly, retired person is a living minimum of HUF 79 757. Please hold on tight: 1 million 30,000 old people have less money to live on. I think there's plenty of work to do, but there's only one week left in the spring session, and we'll continue in the fall. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-06-2	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Korózs. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, will respond to what has been said. [[11.10]]
u2017-06-06-3	Honourable Congressman, Thank you for your speech, and we also take note of your participation in certain consultations with the representatives of pensioners' organisations, if I recall correctly. I hope you told them that you, as Secretary of State for Social Affairs, led, among other things, the reduction of pensions. [[Lajos Korózs: It's never been like this!]] they also increased overhead costs and VAT on food. You said earlier that there were two golden ages for pensioners, one under Gyula Horn and the other during Ferenc Gyurcsány. Now, in the time of left-wing governance, the real value of pensions was reduced by 4 percent. [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true!]] The Gyurcsány government reduced initial pensions by 8 percent, and the Bajnai government took a month's pension from the elderly. So if you are involved in such discussions, I would ask you to draw attention to these precedents as well. In your speech, you spoke about the state of society, but probably because of party policy considerations, you withheld fundamental facts. For example, he silenced the fact that there are more than 700,000 new jobs in Hungary today. [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true either!]] I'm telling you this now because the shortest way out of poverty is to have a job. In your time, during left-wing governance, unemployment doubled and was much better worth working for. I am also saying this because it doesn't matter how many people work in Hungary, not even from the point of view of pensioners, because pensions have to be managed. [[Dr. László Kács: Go to London!]] When the MSZP put down the lute, another 500 thousand people, or five hundred thousand people, applied for some kind of aid in Hungary. [[Dr. László Kács: Is that what they wrote on the paper?]] This has been reduced to less than 200,000 today. [[Nándor Gúr: You have no idea!]] I would also like to say to you that, in parallel with job creation, wages are rising, so it is better worth working. Compared to last year, wages have increased by more than 10 percent in Hungary, the minimum wage has increased by 15 percent and 25 percent respectively, if it was a minimum wage for skilled workers, and there will be further increases next year. [[Nándor Gúr: For six years you have given these people less value money!]] If Hungarian citizens earn more, it can also affect pension payments. I would also like to tell you that sectoral wage increases are also ongoing. During this period, teachers, university educators, specialists, nurses will receive wage increases. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: What about pensioners?]] workers in the cultural sector, workers in government offices and justice, firefighters, soldiers, policemen [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: And everyone wants to leave the country!]] , as well as employees of public companies, among other things. That's part of the whole picture. With regard to health, which also affects older people's lives, it is an important fact that next year this government will spend HUF 430 billion more on health than you will in the last year of their government. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That's why classes are closed!]] If, by the way, Mr President, you have time to listen to the answer, I would also like to tell him that in the area of education, HUF 416 billion is the additional resource compared to your governance. That's just a few facts to prove that what you're saying is bleeding from a thousand wounds, and that's the case even if we know there's a lot more to do. When you talk about the state of Hungarian society, you do so at a class-fighter's pace, for example, speaking against so-called rich people, which is particularly interesting, knowing that László Botka has forgotten nothing less than a million hours and real estate part of his property declaration, while the family drives a large luxury car. The thing is, MSZP is leasing from Mátyás Rákosi, saying that the rich should pay. If there was such a thing as a hypocrite, it would certainly have freaked out. [[Dr. László Kács: Oh, what a turnaround!]] Because we know that when the MSZP talks about the so-called rich ones, the whip will ultimately hit the middle-class families who are working with children. This can also be seen from the fact that the MSZP is constantly levitating it by abolishing the family home-building discount, family tax relief, and by constantly talking about raising the key, they refer to it. For the sake of the fact, I am telling you that when the MSZP was in a government position, 36 percent of the top key was the one, the visit fee was introduced - this would also have affected the elderly - and hospital daily rates were discussed in higher education. They've taken away, I say once again, the 13th month pensions, and these pants-crushing measures have been voted by your Prime Minister's candidate László Botka in Parliament one by one. This also shows that László Botka is not different from those socialists who, by the way, pushed the country to the brink. I would ask you not to believe that the Hungarians can be relegated, because your candidate is not an innocent newborn political lamb, but a man who voted three times for the Prime Minister of Ferenc Gyurcsány. Thank you for listening. [[Dr. István Józsa: Very weak! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-4	Thank you, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Dear Parliament, At the same time, Mrs Rózsa Hoffmann, from the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, spoke before the agenda, with the title "Pedagogusnapra" on the agenda. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-06-06-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is well arranged that, at the same time as the natural revival, in the late spring months, we devote three days to the renewal of people, on the first Sunday of May, we can celebrate the mothers, the children at the end of the month, and the teachers on the first Sunday of June. The latter, the school teacher's day this year, coincides with the great celebration of Christianity, the punk and the day of national cohesion, and this is certainly no coincidence either. All three of these fine days place our responsibility for a renewed life, for children, at the centre of public attention. Today, early in June, in the House of the country, we want to talk to and talk to young people about teachers, educators, teachers, teachers, as we celebrated them yesterday. So to speak, there is no creator of the universal spiritual life, be it philosopher, writer, artist, scientist, decisive politician or, of course, teacher, who did not write or give thought to, lousy allegories or thoughts about the essence, benefit and importance of the work of teachers. Allow me to greet my diamond grinding colleagues with my own words this time. Before the change of regime, there were many of us who did not like Teacher's Day, because we knew that the Hungarian state introduced it in 1952, as a compensation for the unfair abuse and the humiliating wages of the educational work. Fortunately, today we can be proud to celebrate this profession because order has been restored. Since 2011, all Hungarian people can know and perceive that politics in Hungary appreciates education, education and the activities of teachers. Our parliament first introduced into law the stages of the pedagogical career that create predictability and security, and, together with this, increased its remuneration. We hope that we will be able to return shortly to a constant benchmark for minimum or average wages, because we need to keep their wage levels high in the long term. The increase in the education budget of nearly HUF 100 billion next year is a good starting point for this, because without teachers, we have no children and no future without children. We all know that. [[11.20]] Let us welcome our teachers with respect. I welcome our kindergarten teachers and uncles, whose faces, smiles and encouragement will accompany the young people of today on the way to them. I welcome our teachers, who, while developing basic skills, are tirelessly giving lifelong support to young ones today. Years passed, but I still feel the warm hand of my good teacher sometimes, as our poet Sándor Kányádi says. I welcome the development of young people with disabilities and those with different disadvantages, our teachers who have expertise and empathy, who are rarely attracted to the spotlight. I welcome the humble, unspoken educators of our young men with outstanding talent, and the educators of our excellent athletes, our world-famous virtuososos, our student Olympics. I welcome our dedicated masters, who teach us profession and humanity, to provide professional supplies. Welcome to the preparation of the intellectuals of the future, our tireless university and college colleagues, our practitioners in doctoral schools. In particular, I welcome teachers who lead their ministry in the creation of cooperative communities. I quote only one example here, because I was just personally able to experience the Hungarian Porcelain and local teachers as an extraordinary experience on the evening of Pentecostal Sunday, whose volunteer choir greatly contributed to the growing news of the Pentecostal Passion Games throughout the country. I welcome all the colleagues who have received their pedagogical awards these days, as well as the nearly 200 teachers who have been engaged in their profession, who have been entrusted with shaping our future. And I bow my head to the creative and educational work of many, many famous former teachers, including Anna Jókai, who passed before our pain yesterday. May God rest them, and their teaching will be heeded. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Dear Colleagues, In the words of László Nagy, you stand in the lead and you look far away, never forget: you are an example! May God live in honor, in happiness, all the educators.
u2017-06-06-6	Thank you very much. I would like to remind my fellow Members of the time frame. Don't embarrass me. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will respond to what has been said.
u2017-06-06-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I think that, both on teacher's day and nearing the end of the year, a lot of people thank teachers, teachers, kindergarten workers and university teachers for what they have done all year round for their children. Teachers, teachers, kindergarten teachers, people trust their children with their most precious treasures, so it doesn't matter under what circumstances, who and how these children are raised from morning to noon, afternoon or even late at night. And it doesn't matter how the government tries to help those who deal with children. In recent years, we have tried to offer, give, and prove to teachers as much as possible in material respect and respect for humans. One part of this, the symbolic part, is when we thank them for their work. Many people may not even think of the value of this, how much weight it has, how much torque it has, how much incentive it has, but, indeed, when you do this at school, thank you, you see that there is room for thanks, there is room for praise for teachers, so it is important that we do this in every case. But it is equally important for Parliament, a body adopting a budget, to show in the budget figures that it also has an appreciation for teachers, and to provide students with the best conditions for development. If you look at the budget figures, the soon-to-be-vote budget figures next year, you can see that there will be HUF 97 billion more in the next year for students, primary school students, high school students, university students than there is for them from this year's budget. This is a significant step of almost 100 billion, but it is not a step, but it is almost a leap that schools and universities can manage more. If you look at the total amount, which will already be over HUF 2 000 billion in the coming year and compare it to the budget adopted during the last socialist government, you will certainly see a surplus of more than HUF 550 billion, so we spend more on education today, spending more on students, spending more on teachers' wages than they did before. We can remember that there were many restrictions, the closure of schools one after another, there were more than one hundred and eighty places where there were mass redundancies, the dismissal of 15 thousand teachers, and there was a reduction in salaries taking away a month's wages. So there was something to bring in. But not only have we managed to bring in the disadvantage, but we have also made significant progress. Our important task is to achieve as much school expansion and school modernisation as possible in the countryside and in the capital. I think that the second half of the year or next year will show everyone an up-and-coming period, since both in school expansions, classroom constructions and new schools, as well as in the transfer of swimming pools and gymnasiums, the following years will have already achieved their spectacular results, as the budget has spent three times over the years to guarantee the best conditions for students. The 1st September of this year will be a very important change in primary schools as a whole and in the first year of secondary school, as the government has accelerated the family support system in which the schoolbook package is given free of charge, so the schoolbook supply system will not be up in the next four years, but not only from 1st September, but also the secondary school students and the first secondary school students will receive the textbooks free of charge. In this way, the government can take a heavy burden off the shoulders of families, just like the extension of the free children's meals, which, if the Parliament accepts the budget, can now be supported by HUF 79 billion, compared to the HUF 29 billion, which is quite small, about a third of the amount or less than half of what the socialists intended for this in 2010. The 50 percent multi-stage wage increase for teachers, which continues this year, has resulted, as has the Klebelsberg training scholarship, as the number of teachers has increased by one and a half times. This means that the teachers of the future generation can be drawn from a much wider circle by universities, and we hope that they can bring a much more qualitative education, since, with greater applications, students with better abilities will be enrolled in education, in higher education, and teachers with better abilities will come out of it. It is also important, and we also thank the teachers for their preparatory work, that in the last graduation period, 2.5 percent more graduates graduated with a declining population, 2.5 percent more graduates than before. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And the developments continue, worth HUF 35 billion in digital terms and HUF 200 billion in EU funds. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-8	Thank you, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a pre-meeting address under the shadow of the Great Union. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-06-06-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Great Union, December 1, 1918, and everything that follows is becoming more and more difficult, puts an increasing shadow and burden on us, and I am saddened to see that for the time being the Hungarian Parliament, the Hungarian Government, does not want to seriously address this issue. On 1 December 1918 in Gyulafehérvár, the Romanians of Transylvania declared the separation of East Hungary and Transylvania from Hungary, and the declaration of Gyulafehérvár promised total national freedom for the peoples living together, which has not yet been completed. Romania is busy preparing for this festival, preparing to fill Europe as a whole with what a fair decision it was and what a good place for national communities, what a good situation it is in Romania today. In connection with this, it is not too old news that the Romanian airline TAROM has also named its newest aircraft. We must therefore prepare for these anniversaries, prepare for the propaganda that the surrounding countries, the surrounding peoples, will continue, and prepare for the centennial anniversary of June 4, 1920. Mr Secretary of State, I would not like to make a speech in which, just like our previous debates, I would like to mention grievances, or I would like to take account of good or bad measures from you; I do not wish to talk about this anniversary in particular, although I could do what was important about Csíksomlyó; Viktor Orbán looked at BL-mecscscs, and Gábor Vona visited Csíksomlyó. [[11.30]] Just as I do not want to talk about it now, and please do not do what has been voted in Parliament and what has not been done in previous years. For example, I do not assume that Minister Simicskó did not vote for dual citizenship because he did not agree with it. Maybe he had something else to do, maybe he had a different program; maybe other people were misorganizing his program, like it was with Gábor Vona. I would rather talk about it, and I would like to draw your attention to our shared responsibility for this anniversary. I would like to ask you whether there is a willingness in the majority of governments to try and find you with a somewhat clichéd word, a national minimum, in which we can all agree on Trianon's anniversary and foreign Hungarians. Without any cynicism and honestly I say that I appreciate, appreciate, where Fidesz has gone in 27 years in this regard, from the withdrawal from Parliament in Tianon 90 to the fact that, in recent years, you have taken very important national policy measures of major importance to the Hungarian nation. The good intentions behind them have never been called into question, even if we disagreed with certain decisions, such as the fact that you treat Trianon's anniversary as a kind of holiday, while we view this anniversary as a kind of mourning. Because we have to look around, because we have to see that the situation of the Hungarian communities of the Carpathian Basin is still unorganized, the Ministry of Education of Serbia, which is preparing for the EU, has terminated 13 secondary schools teaching in Hungarian at the end of May 2017, and in Transylvania the bilingual street signs are being removed in Târgu Mures. So there are issues that could be addressed, on which Hungarian diplomacy could draw attention. Economic development is very important and supported by us, but do not distract attention from the other problems of the Hungarian community. We want us to try to work together on this case. You have changed a lot on this issue over the past decades. I am very pleased that there is a party in Parliament, the LMP, which, I do not know how to define itself, is a left-wing, balliberal or green party, but has always been consistent in supporting Hungarian communities abroad. We are pleased to see that the left was able, at least part of it, to develop character in recent years, and let us say, the majority of the representatives of the MSZP voted in favour of dual citizenship at the time. Ferenc Gyurcsány does not have much to do, he and his party remain consistently anti-Hungarian. We have tabled our proposal for a decision on Trianon for 2020 so that it can be a joint proposal, a joint proposal. Once again, I ask you, Secretary of State, to consider your earlier opinions, not to start a war on memory policy. Let us now put aside what led to Trianon, whose responsibility it was, who could be blamed historically for this. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Let's look at what we can agree on, let's have a common proposal, let's have a common memory policy [[The president's ringing again.]] and jointly define our responsibility in relation to foreign Hungarians. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-06-10	Thank you, Congressman István Szávay. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond.
u2017-06-06-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to begin by saying that the good-bye to Sziksomlyo is not a campaign event for us. A lot of fidesz politicians are involved, but that doesn't mean they're bragging about it. It's quite simply a different matter. I would also like to say to you that the cross-border unification of the nation is one of the government's priorities, and I would also like to assure you that if any atrocities are caused to the Hungarian communities abroad, the Hungarian government will, as has been before, stand by them. I think we can agree on that. As you well know, the cross-border unification of the nation has been supported by a number of government decisions and measures in recent years. From 2011, just to start the line, the Fundamental Law also states that we must commit ourselves to Hungarians living beyond the border. The National Assembly passed the Act in 2010, which commemorates the signing of the 1920 Trianon peace treaty. It has been seven years, honourable Member, that Parliament has passed the Double Citizenship Act, and on this basis 950,000 of our fellow nations have applied for Hungarian citizenship from the Carpathian Basin and from the world. Based on this, it is not an excessive hope that 1 million Hungarians abroad will receive dual citizenship. This is a serious remedy after the trauma on December 5, 2004. The purpose of national unification is also reflected in public education. That's why the just went off without limit! With the help of which students of Hungarian schools can meet young people across the border, they can go on a class trip to the Hungarian residential areas of neighbouring countries and all with state support. Our goal is for students to meet their cross-border counterparts at least once during their studies. I could also mention the question of the economy. An unprecedented economic development programme was launched both in Vojvodina and in the Highlands. If I understand what you are referring to, the President of Jobbik is now wearing his national hat, but when he should have acted, honourable Member, he has not in one case turned his back on the Hungarians from abroad, the Hungarians from across the border. Your party president, just to start the line, did not attend the meeting of the Hungarian Permanent Conference in December, even though those other parties were represented at the presidential level. Even left-wing parties took the trouble to delegate their president. Let's just hope your party president wasn't a spa. And you know very well, it is perhaps the most serious thing that your party president has not voted in favour of dual citizenship, the law on it here in Parliament. [[Noise, interruptions.]] Well, if I recall correctly, you've done enough for a radio invitation, which is more important. If we're looking for the reasons for this strange absence, then I think the words of the President of the Jobbik Szolnok, who says [[A growing noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] I quote to you: "The majority of Transylvanian Hungarians, like North American Indians, can be bought with a handful of glass beads. This handful of glass beads was dual citizenship. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[István Szávay: I was able to understand what I said!]] I'm beginning to think he said, as bitter as it is to say that they didn't deserve dual citizenship. He also says that the tendency to fool around is even greater than that of Hungary. This is the position of one of the leaders of Jobbik on Hungarians across the border. This is not the only case, honourable Member, when you have ignored and ignored national interests. Earlier, they demanded land distribution, and now they would tax farmers. Formerly campaigning against EU membership, they would now hand over powers to Brussels. These days, security is often referred to, but there has been no vote in favour of the anti-quota constitutional amendment. We see, honourable Member, that Jobbik is desperately trying to regain its lost national image, but the fact is that we no longer have too many illusions about it. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Is the skin on your face not burning?]] Because you can't be a national party and a little left party for tactical reasons. Understand, honourable Member, that you cannot march at the same time as Ágnes Heller and the National Guard. You have to understand that. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-06-12	Thank you, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Dear Parliament, At the same time, Ákos Hadházy, representative of LMP, applied for a speech before the agenda:, New Compensation Act for foreign exchange lenders! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-06-06-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, There was another terrorist event in England. We look at these events astoundingly, but we must say once again that it is not only possible to die in acts of terrorism and not only because of the crimes of terrorists; it is also possible to die because of governance, because of the government's inability to act or its unwillingness to do so. Think about it when you leave a resident doctor in Sopron, an inadequately trained resident doctor for emergency care, or when you don't have enough paramedics when ambulances go out, only the drivers go out. You can tell that you can die in these things. These can also be quantified, because of the situation of Hungarian health care, 2.5 times as many people die of curable diseases in Hungary as the average of Europe's most advanced 14 countries. But there's another death that's very difficult to say statistics about, but we all know there are. And those are the suicides that foreign exchange credentials are forced to commit. There have been, there have been, we all know. We don't know how many there are, so you can't count them like a terrorist act, but there are. And clearly the government's inertia, the government's inaction, is contributing to these deaths. [[11.40]] We have almost forgotten these people, the government has certainly forgotten, because many times it says that this problem no longer exists, it has solved this problem, this problem is already closed. It is not closed at all, and in these weeks and months, a lot of people, some 170 thousand foreign exchange-crediters - and this means at least half a million people - will face the fact that the price barrier has expired, the price barrier has ceased to exist, and its repayment will increase by about 15 percent. 15 percent for those who steal billions, hundreds of millions here in Parliament, it doesn't matter, but for those who earn, let's say, 150 thousand or 100 thousand forints, they do care about a 15 percent increase. People say why save them is their fault. I have to say, however, that there were indeed rescues here, you saved the municipalities, which were also in a very difficult situation because of foreign exchange loans, saved banks - right now the circle near Lőrinc Mészáros bought such a rescued, rescued bank - and, indeed, by early repayment, they saved the people who needed it least, but did not save the people who needed it the most. Therefore, LMP will start to develop the conditions for a foreign exchange loan compensation. We will certainly need to look at and find the help that can help these people, including those who still bear this burden, and indeed those who have been able to escape from this problem with family help or in some way will also have to look at the possibility of compensation. In the first round, what we can assure you is that the funds accumulated at the National Bank of Hungary - which now amount to some HUF 265 billion - are in real estate assets, according to this data, about 70 billion, but can be sold, and the remainder in well-mobilisable money - will be the basis for currency-credit compensation. It's a totally illegally-built money, illegally-spent money. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank, which means spending money in foundations, obviously dares to do so because Péter Matolcsy, through his wife and daughter, has bought Péter Polt to practically a kilo, but it will be possible to touch this money legally, and this money will do a great deal of good for foreign exchange lenders. In addition, it must be dealt with, we must indicate that we have not forgotten these people, and we will start a very serious work to save these people. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-06-14	Thank you, Congressman Hadházy. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Pál Völner will respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2017-06-06-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If we have listened to the speech of the Member, then we have seen him talk about many things, but he has said very little about foreign exchange loaners, the development of those processes and the management of the foreign currency loan problem, but instead he has been involved in a conduct that has to be sold; the opposition has proved - and it is recognised as public money at the National Bank and its foundations - that you would continue again where your predecessors started in 2002 and the MSZP, that all the economic results that the country has achieved over the last seven years would be squandered and would put Hungary on the same slope that it was on. However, in order to discuss the facts, I would like to mention some of the things that have happened since 2010 in foreign exchange, which presents the activities of this government and this parliamentary majority. It is known that in 2010, hundreds of thousands of families were exposed to foreign exchange loans, practically their housing was threatened, evictions threatened, and they got into a completely unsolvable spiral: with rising foreign exchange rates at a stagnating economy with hundreds of thousands of unemployment, more than 11 percent unemployment in the country. And a complete economic transformation had to be carried out in order to stabilise the country, and the situation of foreign exchange legislaters, while respecting the legal framework, because we must not forget that there is a Fundamental Law, there are European Union standards, there are international rules, and there are laws protecting property that also protect banks. It was always necessary to find a solution where, at the end of the day, it would not be the public that would pay, but, indeed, to share with banks the damage resulting from the cursed economic policy of the previous government, the release of foreign currency loans. To recall some of these: we know that in 2010 the implementations were suspended by this Parliament, so no one lost their home, they were not in a position without a roof because they could have put them on the street immediately. After that, the mid-rate Act, XCVI 2010, was established. Law, which obliges banks to apply conversions only at central exchange rates. We have maximized the amount of early repayment fees, cancelled the extension fees, and such costs could not be accounted for by the banks, which have often hit debtors with interest burdens. After that, the Banking Association was able to agree on the introduction of the exchange rate barrier, the establishment of the National Asset Manager, which provided assistance to debtors who might not have taken credit in the first place because they were not in a creditable condition, but would have lost their home in the same way, and could not have been in a position to escape these burdens. Mr President, Mr President, the possibility of paying off ends, which saved more than 130,000 families from continuing to carry on the currency loan heritage, has been contemptible. Another question is that banks did not give out credit that more people could have had access to it. So it wasn't the construction that was wrong, but it was practically the market reception that wasn't good enough. But to say that saving 130,000 families from such an ambush situation is virtually deplorable and not valuable activity is simply slander. We managed to fix the repayment rates, and we practically managed to get the banks to account on the basis of the Curia's legal unit decision, which included that the banks practically had to reimburse the debtors for unduly liquidated interest. This has not been the case in previous economic history in Hungary, I think. This was also a significant achievement, and it took place with the necessary legal framework and legal guarantees, without exposing ourselves to international litigation. And finally, we managed to forint foreign exchange loans, and I note that at a fixed rate exactly where market rates were much higher, so at the moment when foreign exchange lenders in Croatia, Romania and the other neighbouring states were in a desperate situation, we managed to stabilize their situation just then. So, we have done and will continue to do all the opportunities that the Hungarian legal system provides, in the past, for foreign exchange creditors. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-16	Thank you, Secretary of State, Pál Völner. Dear Parliament, Szilárd Németh, from the Fidesz Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda:. Soros attacked Hungary! It's an address. [[Demercation and intervention in the ranks of opposition parties.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-06-06-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It's a shame to smile like that, because I think there's already a huge truth in the title. It is clear from the events of the past few weeks if we only pay attention to England, that terrorism and immigration go hand in hand. It's not the first time we've established that. Since 2015, we have witnessed events in Europe that are becoming increasingly serious, increasingly serious because children are now being openly attacked and, on the other hand, the Christian Europe is in fact being attacked by an open, provocative attack, in which a lot of people die, in which a lot of people are injured. And it is also clear that not only the immigration policy of the last two years is facing what is represented today by Brussels under the pressure of George Soros, and their Hungarian advocates are here on the streets from far to far right in the horseshoe, but also the policy that the great colonial empires have been trying to integrate immigrants in the last 15 to 20 years, even if we go further back, even in the last half century. This integration - clearly seen from the acts of terrorism, the formation of the enclaves, the formation of the no-go zones into which practically a French, English, Swedish or German man dares to enter - has failed. [[11.50]] The Hungarian immigration policy has acted against them. Hungarian immigration policy does not stand in the air, but has very important foundations. There are two foundations for the Hungarian government's policy to stop illegal immigration; one of them is the international treaties that we have concluded. We must implement Schengen, the provisions of the Schengen Treaty, which clearly states that we are responsible for some of the European external borders, and that we can preserve these European external borders safely. The other is such a very important foundation, and that is the decision of the people, the decision of the Hungarian people. We have been through two national consultations and we have passed a referendum. The referendum made it clear on 2 October, didn't it, that 3 362 224 people voted in one direction, that people clearly said that they didn't want Brussels forcing the resettlement quota on us. On this basis, the illegal migrants already inside, of course, also those who have come with very bad intentions... - not only may European social benefits be drained, but they have been practically sent over as armed men, that Europe must be occupied, that European culture must be changed, and therefore very serious acts of terrorism and unpredictable, increasingly unpredictable acts of terrorism must be carried out. We didn't ask for any of this. We clearly said no. The construction of the fence, the application of transit zones, the tightening of immigration legislation, all based on the decision of the people, because in 2015 we asked people in the national consultation, and they practically told us that they wanted the government to do so. Despite this, György Soros does not fit into his skin and has his domestic servers, practically last week László Botka and László were lynched in Brussels to exert brutal pressure on Hungary by Brussels. Soros basically sent an open declaration of war to the country, which included the traditional sycophanty that we had just heard from Ákos Hadházy, the Mafia state, there is no democracy and the rest, but it always turns out that the problem with us is that Hungary, the Hungarian people - I would like to stress the Hungarian people - are resisting his wishes. And he decided to bring his idea of breaking down national borders through fire and water, by the way, to take away the right to make a stand-alone decision in the European Union, and then, in virtually a year, one and a half million migrants can be pushed into Europe. And we, I think, on the basis of what was the last and most successful referendum, have 1 million 700 thousand people returned the completed sheet, we can safely say that in Hungary, the majority of the government and the Fidesz-KDNP continue to regard the security of Hungarian people and the sovereignty of Hungary as the most important task and value, and we will not let any of this happen. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-18	Thank you, Mr Szilárd Németh. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Csaba Dömötör will respond.
u2017-06-06-19	Honourable Congressman, Mr President, In his speech, he spoke on issues that fundamentally define Hungary's security, and in this connection one of the serious developments of the last few days is that the Socialist Party has moved him to break the southern border lock if he comes to government. [[Dr. István Józsa: He didn't say that, he didn't say that!]] This was announced by László Botka himself. It seems, honourable MSZP Members, that there are not enough terrorist attacks in Europe to make the MSZP realise that immigration has serious security risks, which we must not take on. It is possible to explain, to refer to the lack of context, to cosmetics afterwards, but the recordings of the interview given to Reuters are clear: László Botka made it clear, I quote: of course they will try to break down the fence as soon as possible. That's what he said, these words speak for themselves, there they stand, accusing me of the head of the entire socialist faction. I would like to tell you that the border closure has made a significant contribution to Hungary's security over the past period, since its construction has significantly reduced the pressure on the southern border. The problem, honourable left-wing Members, is not that Hungary is defending its borders, but that the European Union is not putting enough emphasis on it. László Botka's statement and statement are not alone in the wilderness, because it has a serious history, because we all remember when he said that the population of Szeged was not disturbed by immigrants at all, and in an interview in 2015, he also said that it was an unnecessary waste of money to build the southern border lock. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: It is!]] Dear House, We are well aware that some EU leaders see the solution rather than border protection in resettlement programmes. They are being forced, and the Hungarian Socialist Party is very much a partner in this. This also means that László Botka's statement is not a coincidence but a conscious political action. [[István Tukacs: That's a lie. Why do you have to lie?]] Because we all remember how the MSZP tried to block the quota vote. We also remember how they opposed the anti-quota constitutional amendment. But to give you a fresher example, Mr Korózs, you have supported a resolution in the European Parliament that would speed up resettlement programmes, which would facilitate family reunification and otherwise extend the concept of refugees to a very wide range. In short, you are in favour of measures that would make Hungary completely vulnerable. And your party president, Gyula Molnár, confirmed on ATV the other day when he said that in EU cooperation, if there are elements that are not so favourable to Hungary, they must be accepted sometimes. So, according to the MSZP, sometimes you have to accept to make decisions about us above your head. We don't think they should be accepted. Slowly, let me tell you this: László Botka promises to break down the border lock, the party's president, Gyula Molnár, tells the European Union that the resettlement programmes are acceptable. This is the left-wing immigration package. It's nothing but a premeditated conspiracy against the security of this country. [[István Tukacs: Lies factory what you are doing!]] Not just us, not just us. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] but all Hungarian citizens rightly expect the MSZP, the party and the faction to clarify the situation created by the Botka declaration. [[István Tukacs: Fasistoid! Fascists talk like that, man.]] Please make a statement - I ask you - about whether you would really tear down the fence by going to the government and whether you and Gyula Molnár would really put in place the resettlement programmes. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Ask Mihály Varga! Lajos Korózs: Jaszfényszárun works in the Audi!]] I would also like to ask you, Congresswoman Kunhalmi, what László Botka was actually discussing in Brussels. [[The president's ringing the bell. Lajos Korózs: Aren't you ashamed?!]] Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, As the migration crisis stays with us permanently [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You want it!]] and, as I look at the events of the past days, the consequences remain with us, the MSZP, the Hungarian Socialist Party, cannot do so without answering these questions. [[Lajos Korózs: Are you deaf? Tukacs, István: Are you an Audista?]] If you don't answer these questions, it's a confession. At least that's a clearer picture a year before the election. Thank you for listening.
u2017-06-06-20	Thank you, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the turmoil of the MSZP and the speeches before the agenda. On this day's day, Mr Ander Balázs, Jobbikos, applied for a speech after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Now, at 11:56 p.m., we will begin the discussion of questions and immediate questions. First of all, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the President of the Parliament is the House Rules of Decision 121. Mr Nándor Gúr, Mr I/15787, under his authority under point (a) of paragraph 4 of the Act. His interpellation was rejected as the motion does not fall within the remit of the government. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Gábor Harangozó, the representative of the MSZP, who wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior, whether he will be exterminated or we will smoke them out? It's an address. Congressman Gábor Bellozó has the floor.
u2017-06-06-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Well, after Csaba Dömötör's recent lie in Goebbels, I'm a little afraid to ask any question because I'm shocked by what you just said and how someone can get into such a depth and how the government can even give their name to it. [[12.00]] But let's do an experiment to see if the issue of mosquitoes is not determined by Soros and by the balliberal scheming with Soros. Mr. Secretary. I have asked you a number of questions about what will happen in Hungary in relation to mosquito control. I do this because, every year for years, money has been available on time for mosquito control, yet we find that we somehow manage to do so every year in a poor way, and there is such a terrible mosquito invasion that it also causes serious damage to tourism. This is also the case on Lake Balaton, where already in April, the Balaton Association had to do a mosquito damage at its own expense, and now the municipality of Siófok had to do mosquito damage at its own expense by the three-day weekend of Pentecost, while - as I looked into it, you did not well inform me about it the other day - with a budget of HUF 4 billion in public procurement, the consortium that should carry out mosquito control was selected. Mr. Secretary. I've been trying to do some research. The fact is that it is said that this consortium is capable of carrying out this task. They decided on public procurement in January. The money is available, 4 billion forints, a huge sum, and everyone says that due to the Ministry and the bureaucracy and misfortune of disaster management, mosquito control will never be able to start in time. Mr. Secretary. Will these tasks be solved? Whether the Mosquito Abuse Programs are launched on Lake Balaton, and what is in the framework contract is that one to six times a year, let me know that this does not mean that they will try to do any mosquito damage on Lake Balaton on one occasion. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-06-06-22	Thank you very much. I'll remind the congressmen of the two minutes. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] The answer will be given by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. You have the floor.
u2017-06-06-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Obviously, I won't be able to reassure you. I'm sure my expertise or ability will be limited. On several occasions, you have asked questions about mosquito control and have received regular answers. I can only repeat that the implementation of the mosquito control programme is coordinated by the Economic Supply Centre of the National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection of BM. Mosquito damage is ordered in the area of Lake Balaton on the basis of a proposal from experts who continuously measure mosquito infection. On the basis of the expert proposals, biological larceny will take place in the reeds and border areas of Lake Balaton in the next few days. Therefore, on the basis of the experts' proposal, it is expected that the first mosquito reduction will take place between 12 and 17 June. In different areas, different levels may be needed to control mosquitoes, depending on the level of actual mosquito exposure. On the basis of practical experience, there is absolutely no way that a single treatment at Lake Balaton would be sufficient. More opportunities will be needed in the distribution and at the rate they consider necessary to manage the estimated area of about 30-40,000 hectares. In Siófok, because of a weekend event, the municipality decided to carry out a preventive mosquito abuse, a ULV procedure, which took place using a small amount of toxins. This method is also used in the National Mosquito Abuse Programme. Today, an average of 0.5 - 0.8 liters of chemicals are used in the mosquito control programme for 1 hectare, so they pose a fairly small risk to other living organisms. By the way, they have good cooperation with the Balaton Alliance, they appreciate this cooperation differently than you; perhaps you should turn to them, and then you can relax. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-06-24	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Pogács. Dear Parliament, Ander Balázs, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy: "The rhetorical question, or why does the government not want strong employee protection? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-06-06-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The pro-government propaganda of the last few weeks has been loud because the 2018 work will be a budget for those living. If that is true, the question should be asked: why have the improved amendments made to strengthen interest representatives not been supported? The facts are stubborn, and these show that the domestic trade union coverage has now fallen from the 2001 level to 9 percent, compared to 80 percent in some truly welfare Scandinavian states. The share of workers covered by collective agreements is one quarter, compared with two thirds of the most fortunate countries. The labour inspectorate has been terminated, so it is no wonder that the number of reported workplace accidents under your government has increased by a large third, from 17,000 a year to over 23,000. [[István Szilárd Németh: Come to Csepel, I'll show you where it is!]] The slogan of labour market flexibility has been turned around as a jerk among trade union licenses; they have made the ultimate weapon of employee interest and strike almost impossible. All this was necessary in order to better control the low added-value jobs at the bottom of the global value chains of multinationals treating Hungary only as a colony, or the natives who slaved into one of the Hungarian oligarchs. Why is the government refusing to do so in order to reduce this vulnerability? When will they finally breathe life into the degenerate sectoral dialogue committees? Why are trade unions not given the powers supported by budgetary resources to play a role in labour control? Why do they refuse to finance the dialogue institution system, the infrastructure and experts themselves, who, for example, calculate the minimum amount of living in Hungary instead of KSH? Why don't you support the involvement of interest representatives in public tasks in the field of employee re-training and individual development? When will trade union leaders who have been subjected to employers' volitional attacks finally receive effective legal immunity? I'm looking forward to your unspoken reply. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-06-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2017-06-06-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In Hungary, the legal environment adequately ensures the legal protection of trade unions. Under the Fundamental Law, trade unions and other interest organisations are free to develop and operate. In line with this, the Labour Code regulates guarantees of the right to organise within labour law. [[Gábor István Bellozó: At most, his leader will be fired!]] Workers therefore have the right to establish a trade union and freely enter such an organisation in order to promote their interests. Employers are obliged to provide trade unions with the basic conditions for their operation, and the employer cannot refuse the collective bargaining offer that comes from the trade unions. [[Ander Balázs: Is that why you fired the president of TMRSZ?]] With this, the law provides for the regulation of labour law under a collective agreement. In addition, the government also appears at the level of subsidies to ensure the functioning of the trade union movement; for example, 60 representatives are represented in sectoral dialogue committees, which currently have 23 sectoral dialogues. With regard to sectoral dialogue committees, the government provided support for a budget of HUF 73.5 million in 2016, which mainly finances international membership fees and international tasks expenditure. From now on, several projects have been developed, specifically for advocacy organisations: support for the provision of services for legitimate employment, GINOP 5.3.3. 3.5 billion, and many more of these programs can be listed, worth more than HUF 10 billion in total. Against your claim, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the government is providing significant resources to the social partners to facilitate their capacity development and to ensure their functioning. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-06-28	Thank you very much, Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and István Ikotity are representatives of the LMP, they want to ask the Minister of Human Resources. The question is this: how does the government compensate students who are in an impossible position at the offending graduation, with the approval of the president in charge of the meeting? Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2017-06-06-29	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, A few weeks ago, the LMP called on the government here in Parliament about the infringement of the qualifications of young people involved in vocational training. [[12.10]] It is about the fact that the Ombudsman for Education also found it illegal that only four months before graduation, the requirements of the consolidated subject of formal qualifications were revealed. The preparation was also made difficult by the lack of resources and testing tasks, not to mention the lack of specialist teachers and non-substitution. In addition, this also meant a huge amount of teaching material to account for multiple subjects on young people, which is not a high school level, but a requirement for university disciplines. When we confronted the government with these problems, the Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, did not give any explanation for the violation, he spoke of anything else. However, the feedback seems to have had a serious impact on the infringement, the unprepared. There's been a lot of news that the whole class has failed at graduation. There were hardly anyone who passed the exam, even though the students were studying, they often didn't ask for what their teachers had previously expected, what they had been prepared for. This now represents a failure for many students to apply for university admissions, the destruction of their dreams of further education. According to the LMP, this is not the fault of students and teachers; this is clearly because of the unprepared and irresponsiblely introduced maturity that the education policy government is responsible for. Even at the last minute, Lajos Aáry-Tamás proposed a solution to the foreseeable problem, the government ignored his proposal. Mr. Secretary, there's been a problem, but there's still an opportunity. How are young people compensated for the damage? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-06-06-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-06-06-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Twenty-five thousand graduates are mid-level, two thousand higher levels, and the graduation will take place by 30 June, so there is absolutely no final conclusion as to what happened during graduation or what happened in the graduation system. However, it is a bit strange, Mr President, as you began to say, that, on the one hand, you said how much the students were burdened, as they talked a lot about it a year and a half ago, they said how outdated the curriculum was, in Hungarian, demanding less teaching material and demanding more modern teaching material. Here, such a system was created. The basis for this was already published and introduced in 2013 in the VET Master Plans. The VET framework plans that have been available since 2013 contain the material that has now been called upon on young people. Since autumn, we have been trying to help prepare medium-level sample items by publishing sample tasks. Special classes were organised to provide students with the best possible presentation of framework course No. 13 for students. So we believe that the graduation system was predictable, level playing field for everyone and could be achieved this year, but, as I say, the full evaluation of this will take place later. I would certainly like to draw your attention to the fact that you are now saying exactly the opposite of what you said a year and a half ago, because after the reduction of the materials, after a more modern approach has been introduced, you miss exactly why we didn't set standards according to the old order and the new order. We have been very careful and cautious about what happened before, and we will continue to be that way, and after 30 June, we can appreciate that some of the problems you have raised are real, not real, and that has affected anything. We believe there has been a time of preparation for many since 13:00. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-06-06-32	Thank you, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Mr László Horváth, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. The farmers who have suffered the damage can count on the government's help! It's an address. Mr László Horváth has the floor.
u2017-06-06-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In mid-May, extreme weather occurred in Mátra, which caused serious damage to farmers, especially to people living in Gyöngyös, Mátraalján and Mátra. Approximately 1000-1500 hectares of crops have been damaged and the crop losses are estimated to be between 30 and 90 percent. Both ploughing, fruit and vineyards have been damaged. Unfortunately, the series of natural disasters in our region had already begun with the harsh winter frosts in January, continued with the green tree around Easter, and then, in early May and on May 13, a long-awaited fervour of ice was ravaged. The government has already committed a lion's share of damage relief through the Compensation Fund, which reimburses up to 80 percent of the losses suffered, loss of return value to farmers and is accessible to small farmers, planters under 1 hectare, and to those whose plantations would have grown this year. It should also be added that the Compensation Fund has not been in need of funds since 2012, so that all legitimate claims have been met without any residuals. It is also important to mention that personal responsibility is not negligible on the part of farmers, but that in order to be able to pay their agricultural insurance premiums, they can also rely on support. There is also a very important instrument, this is a one hundred percent-supported preferential loan facility, which was available to farmers until 31 May, which was available without any charge obligation. I understand the wallet is planning to keep this credit line available. But what's important is prevention. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I ask the Secretary of State how protection against ice damage can be achieved in the longer term. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-06-06-34	Thank you, Congressman László Horváth. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2017-06-06-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, Firstly, I would like to thank you very much for your words of appreciation for the efforts made by the agricultural government to increase risk management capacity, as we are doing everything we can to ensure that producer security is as strong as possible. We pay particular attention to tackling adverse weather conditions and risks, helping farmers, as agricultural production is very weather-dependent, very weather-sensitive, and climate change is constantly facing more extreme weather conditions. I would like to point out to you that, after 31 May, another financing facility, free of interest and guarantee, will be available to the plantation farmers most affected by frost and hail damage this year. On the other hand, the best defense is always prevention, so that compensation is not always paid, because in bad cases it can occur several times a year, in worse cases almost every year in places exposed to risk factors. We would therefore like to set up a system in which the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy undertakes to establish a national soil generator ice prevention system and to operate it, to which the Ministry of Agriculture of course also provides professional assistance. A free national system for producers is planned to be established by 1 May 2018, with the implementation of which a significant value can be protected nationwide by the operation of nearly a thousand soil generators. In addition to the above, other incentives for self-care and awareness-raising by producers are also available to operators in the sector. Agricultural insurance has been supported by the State by a significant amount since 2012 [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] From 2016, with the resources of the rural development programme, about HUF 4 billion a year. Thank you very much for your question, Congressman. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-06-06-36	Thank you, Secretary of State István Nagy. Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. What does the government do to prevent pollution of the Szamos river? It's an address. By answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Minister Tibor Pogácsás will answer the question. Mr István Tukacs has the floor.
u2017-06-06-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I wouldn't want to polish clichés about the environment, the love of the landscape, the home, but I must say to you that the Szamos River is a home for the Satmarian man, a bond; he loves, respects, sometimes fears, but it is definitely his country. The river is the symbol. However, this river has been contaminated in recent weeks by a poultry processor on the other side of the border. [[12.20]] And with that word, I haven't even written properly about what's going on there. It flows fecality, blood, animal waste into the river, whose wildlife is constantly being destroyed. Nor should the fact that the river Szamos flows into the Tisza be underestimated, and the Tisza is also affected by this pollution. When I ask the government representative what they're doing about it, I want the Satmarian man to have his river, his home and his country. When this unscrupulous polluting company leaves the news about this without any commentary, I must say that it is cynicism. But that there is no limit to cynicism, I would like to comment on and paint it with two other things. On the one hand, the President of the county assembly asks local politicians not to talk about this problem. Like if we didn't talk about it, it wouldn't exist. Let's not give our county a bad name. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to give my county a bad name, I was just afraid. Therefore, I am asking the representative of the government, and, of course, the pro-government parliamentary representatives of the region, what they want to do to protect the river. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-06-06-38	Thank you, Congressman István Tukacs. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2017-06-06-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We agree that our living waters are important, we agree that our living waters are part of our country, so Szamos also belongs to the people living in that region. In the case of the Unicarm Meat Processing Plant in the village of Vetés in Romania, it has appeared on several occasions and it has become apparent in recent years that this meat processing plant is responsible for the pollution of the river. As a result, the water protection authority made several visits to the Hungarian side and requested data from the Hajdú-Bihar County Government Office, returning the water samples for five years. On this basis, it can be concluded that the concentration of contamination in the river continues to increase from 14 to 16 years. The meat processor is on the other side of the border, so Hungary can act on the basis of bilateral or international agreements. Accordingly, on the basis of the Convention on the Protection of Border Waters signed, we asked the Romanian Government for official information, as well as the Ministerial Commissioner for Water Diplomacy of the JRC, to be present in the region and asked for information. The Romanian party also informed us that, on the basis of the sampling of the purified waste water of Unicarm, several parameters exceed the limit value, so they acknowledge this. Accordingly, they ordered more frequent monitoring of the discharge of waste water and self-checking, the company was obliged to review the waste water treatment system and to carry out further tests. In addition, at the next meeting of the Hungarian-Romanian Water Committee on 20 June, this matter will be on the agenda, as well as within the framework of the environmental committee operating under the Hungarian-Romanian Convention. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-06-06-40	Thank you, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Dear Parliament, Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, notary, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question. It's an address. Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, a notary, is the subject.
u2017-06-06-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In the Budavár real estate development and the Várdányság companies, people are stealing very much. That's what the country-world has been informed of in the last few days. The articles on the subject refer to a screening carried out by the Prime Minister's Office, according to which irregularities, lawlessness, unfavorable contracts and abuses characterize the lives of the two companies. For example, payments of hundreds of millions could have been made on the basis of an oral contract or without actual delivery. But it was also a daily practice that contracting was not for state-owned companies, but only for their managers and relatives. Some properties in Budavár were not or have hardly been charged for renting. Of course, in District I, this is typical of wealth management anyway. But as far as we know, it's only the government that's misbehaved with the wealth they have. Then, on the basis of the evidence we have received, we have filed a criminal complaint, and the investigation continues, and we hope that it will be completed as soon as possible. Mr Secretary of State, we find it extremely regrettable that in the current case of corruption involving public companies, we should be informed of the content of the investigation material from the press, and not from the Prime Minister's Office itself. With all due respect, I would like to ask you and the Minister to allow us to know these documents, and I would like to take a look at them myself. I would also like to ask, as you obviously know the content of this document, that you now give me a summary of this and, above all, who is responsible for the fact that these companies have not been accounted for for for for years. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-06-06-42	Thank you, Congresswoman, notary. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy.
u2017-06-06-43	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to try to respond fully knowing that we can't discuss yet closed due diligence. Let's look at the facts. Indeed, there is a due diligence that specifically affects two companies, the Várdnakság, and the Budavári Real Estate Developer, mentioned by you. The aim of this is, as the Member knows, that numerous projects in the area of heritage conservation run simultaneously in the care of the Prime Minister's Office, and that the Prime Minister's Office would like to place additional tasks here. The screening is carried out by one of the Big Four, PwC, and they have until June 30 they have the opportunity to complete this investigation and to provide the full investigation documentation to the Prime Minister's Office as a client. The information published so far in the press really feeds on these partial reports, so allow me, on behalf of the government, to ask you to suspend your interest by 30 June, and, after 30 June, the Minister or, as the case may be, I will stand here personally and report on the full report of the inquiry. However, allow me to draw your attention to the fact that there are a number of conditions of employment in the public administration where workers from the countryside can receive or receive employment housing under their contract. You're not clear on what's going on here at the moment. By 30 June, this matter will end, and I can promise you, on behalf of the Minister, that, as in any case, in the case of other such investigations, we are in favour of the general public, and we would like to see two companies operating in the area of heritage protection which can not only enjoy public satisfaction but can fully account for the public assets entrusted to it. I ask you and the opposition parties in Parliament to wait for 30 June, the end of the investigation, and not to pronounce a judgment before this investigation has not been completed, because I think it is technically unfounded and is basically a category of political accusation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-06-06-44	Thank you, Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources: - Close the Szolnok College? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity, Member of the Council, notary, has the floor.
u2017-06-06-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, We've learned from higher education that the government wants to close the Szolnok College again. The LMP strongly protests against such intentions. It wouldn't be the first run to make Szolnok's higher education institution impossible. When Viktor Orbán continued his austerity policy after 2010 by Ferenc Gyurcsány and Gordon Bajnai and reduced the state funding of higher education from 200 billion to nearly 120 billion, the rural institutions almost went bankrupt, and their operation passed by a thread. Since then, only a few rural institutions have benefited from priority investments, operating grants have not increased substantially, the lack of resources and the problems that result from it have persisted. According to the LMP, a higher education institution is also the social, economic and cultural centre of the region. It gives young people the opportunity to learn more and reduces migration. [[12.30]] The Szolnok College is of particular importance to the whole city and its surroundings. Strengthening the institution is not merely a question of higher education. After years of disintegration, this will cause serious damage to the entire county. It did not help the situation of the college, that is to say, the establishment of the University of Pallasz Athena. Instead, the resources were transferred to Kecskemét, against Szolnok, while both institutions should be supported at the same time, but with particular attention to the poor Szolnok. Dear Secretary of State, Is the news of the closure of the Szolnok College true? What role does the government intend for the city of Szolnok in higher education in the future? What can young people in Szolnok, students expect, what opportunities will they have for local prosperity, for further education? Will they clearly stand for strengthening Szolnok higher education? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2017-06-06-46	Thank you, Congressman Ikotity, notary. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-06-06-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It may be very far from Baja, Szolnok, and that is why the congressman has not seen what is happening there in recent years, but there have been improvements and stabilisations that, I believe, have confirmed everyone in the establishment of a very stable institution.In July 2016, the University of Athene Pallas was set up together with the Kecskemét College, which, of course, included the Szolnok Faculty of Management and also wanted to strengthen the Szolnok sub-institutional. There was a huge legacy of debt in the Szolnok training, both in terms of liquidity and in terms of management, which was the real problem, Congressman. We managed to solve this with a HUF 5.3 billion grant. You say that the government is not paying any attention to Szolnok higher education - with HUF 5.3 billion in support, we managed to eliminate this old PPP-based system of daily management of the university and otherwise ensure stable management for the Faculty of Management. Thus neither rental nor operating expenditure is as burdensome as previously reported, and until 2020, the institution development plan also includes further improvements that could be implemented for the faculty. The city also supports young people who want to study there with a HUF 10 million scholarship, and since last year, the National Bank's Excellence Scholarship Programme has included the Szolnok Faculty of Management and all its students. A new training course has also started, a Master's degree in enterprise development from the second half of 2016-2017. The faculty received countless grants in EU applications, amounting to HUF 112 million. It can therefore be said of the last period that the situation of the faculty has been stabilized at first, that all debts have been paid; there is no debt now, no liquidity problems for the university, but countless new scholarships [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It was introduced, and a number of improvements were launched in this arm. So his operation is stable, and I think he's making some progress. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. István Ikotity opens his hand and intervenes.]]
u2017-06-06-48	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Tamás László, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy:. What is the first experience with the electronic tax return used for the first time? It's an address. Mr Tamás László has the floor.
u2017-06-06-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, This year, the Sja-receiving era ended, and a large part of the population was exempted from its most important and complex administrative obligation, the filing of returns, as from 2017 the state prepared the tax returns of citizens through the National Tax and Customs Office. I believe that it is absolutely right to expect that the taxpayer should not be required to declare to the State every year the facts of which a significant part of the State's tax and customs authorities already have. After several years of preparatory work, the National Tax and Customs Office set up the e-sya system, which simplified the process of reporting and saved a lot of time in the administration, as e-sentence voters, for example, do not have to line up in the mail. The declaration prepared by the NAV contains the paying data. The draft return accepted, corrected or accepted by the taxpayer shall be considered a return which may be modified only by self-checking or correction. I would like to stress that it remains the responsibility of the individual to make a precise declaration of his income, and that nothing is missing from it. Given that there are 4 million 300,000 people working in the country, the NAV had to process a very large amount of data. Since no IT problems have arisen, we can say that the system has passed a good test. In view of the above, I would like to ask the Secretary of State what are the first experiences of the electronic tax return that has been used for the first time. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-06-06-50	Thank you, Congressman Tamás László. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2017-06-06-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In 2015, the government decided to transform the personal income tax return and create a so-called electronic sja system with the aim of less bureaucracy; less administrative burden for voters, taxpayers; less time, energy and money to spend on personal income tax returns. The system, as you said, clearly passed a good test, since the tax authority prepared a draft declaration for 3.8 million people, and for the first time this year, if the voter and the taxpayer did nothing to submit their tax returns, this was still achieved - on 22 May the draft report became a declaration at zero o'clock. According to our calculations, some 800,000 people took advantage of this opportunity, so that they did not submit any statements electronically or by printing. The tax administration was fully at the disposal of taxpayers, whether by telephone or by customer service or by e-mail or by electronic means, but the old systems, the filling-out systems, and the opportunity created by employers also worked; about 660 thousand people made use of this possibility. The surface was viewed by 1 million 687 thousand people, which means that nearly 50 percent of those involved and 592,000 people submitted their tax returns through the new system. In addition, 820,000 copies were sent in writing or in printed form at the request of taxpayers. The tax authority would like to further develop that even less bureaucracy [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and have an administrative obligation for people to continue to do so in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-06-06-52	Thank you, Mr András Tállai State Secretary. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question: It's an address. Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor.
u2017-06-06-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. We find it outrageous that the government is unable to make a decision on the increase in the salary of Protective Inspectors working in prison due to childish interlinking between ministries and ministers. You know exactly, Secretary of State, because we have drawn your attention to a number of written questions about the fact that, in the case of patrons belonging to your wallet, there has simply been a lack of long-term salary increases. Because of the organisational structure you have invented, they did not belong to the career of law enforcement or to the career created for state officials, so they were also excluded from the associated salary development. It is completely incomprehensible why they are not willing to deal with this unfair and unfair situation, because we are talking about only a few dozen people whose wage arrangements are negligible from a budgetary point of view. At the same time, these few dozen people are performing an extremely important task, as they are the central actors in the work on the reintegration of prisoners. The return of prisoners to society was also called key in several statements by Minister Pintér. From the Minister's written answers, it is clear that the salary increase of the patrons is also a task to be solved, but he expects the solution from the Prime Minister's Office led by János Lázár. And János Lázár referred us back to you when we asked Minister Lazarus about the implementation of the proposal for a solution that you put forward. Mr. Secretary. Let them be able to decide whose job it is to settle a salary increase due to their failed laws! I ask the Secretary of State when, instead of pointing fingers at each other, will they finally be able to decide on a salary increase for the patrons? I'm waiting for your answer. [[12.40]]
u2017-06-06-54	Thank you, Congressman Tamás Bellozó. I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra.
u2017-06-06-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to say that it does not matter to the staff the scale of the salary increase, and I find this tone strange, as you are asking us to raise the salary of professional patrons or patrons serving in prison. Congressman, it's weird for you to ask this question... [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Do not be personal, but answer the question. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2017-06-06-56	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-06-06-57	So it's weird because between 2006-10, when the salary of the professional staff didn't increase, they couldn't keep the professional staff on track, and thousands of people left the career as young pensioners, professional staff when they were at the best age, you did nothing, even though you were four ministers. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: Talk about the patrons.]] Four ministers had advisors, and it's weird that you're asking us to answer that question. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: You haven't done anything in seven years.]] After all, as of July 1, 2015, we have introduced a salary increase for professional law enforcement personnel, a career plan, a new law of service law, and we have implemented and continuously implement this for law enforcement professionals and soldiers. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] But we did it not only here, but also for doctors, nurses, health and social workers. So in Hungarian, hundreds of thousands of people in the public sector were lagging behind, which we could not solve at the same time, Congressman. But I would like to say that we are trying to do the same for professional probation inspectors working in prison, and I trust that this will happen, as the performance of the national economy makes this possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-58	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister for National Development:. Why is the construction of the M9 not progressing substantially in the county of Bács-Kiskun? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor.
u2017-06-06-59	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, As a Member of Parliament, I have dealt several times with the long-designed, but very far from being realized, M9 motorway, because it has long been waiting for the country to build an east-west expressway corridor, from which only a few kilometers have been completed. Building the road at national level would be important because it would significantly reduce the load of the Budapest-based road network, and in Bács-Kiskun County it might be even more important to develop infrastructure, especially because of the creation of new jobs. The fact is, however, that since 2003, 14 years ago, the construction of M9 has not progressed in the environment of my constituency, nor has it, although Kiskunhalas, Jánoshalma, Hajós, or even in the vicinity of Kecel, whose area is particularly affected by the problems of migration, ageing settlements and unemployment. In the Integrated Transport Development Operational Programme, only the section between Vasvar M9 and Zalaegerszeg remains, although it is difficult to understand why the much more developed Western-Transdanubian region is given priority over the thousand wounded South Great Plains. Dear Secretary of State, So my question again concerns what I asked a year ago on behalf of hundreds of thousands of people: what can the population of Bács-Kiskun County expect with regard to road M9? Is progress to be expected in the coming years, or can we continue to dream of the fast-track road for the expected recovery? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-06-60	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Farkas. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2017-06-06-61	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I fully agree with your sentences on the importance of M9. The Government decision on the coordination and implementation of infrastructure investments in Hungary's short- and medium-term road development by 2022 sets out the plans for the development of the following years in a uniform and transparent way, including projects from both EU and domestic budgetary sources. It is possible to include a new project on the basis of a new decision of the government, and to this end, the government will review the progress of each development on a quarterly basis and, if necessary, take action to make justified changes. The investments set out in the Annex to the Decision are constantly expanding. In the road development concept adopted last year, the government decided to implement a number of improvements, with an additional 900 km of motorways, highways or European highways being built up to 22 km of the current 1450 km motorway. Honourable Congressman, You have limited your question to the county of Bács-Kiskun. It is true that the names refer to the western sections, but I would like to add that the Prime Minister has recently declared in Szeged that the construction of the Szeged-Debrecen route - this 47, the northeast wing of the M9, is the government's intention until 2022. I am convinced that this will bring forward the development of Bács-Kiskun County [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and it will also have a very positive impact on this region. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-62	Thank you, Secretary of State, János Fónagy. Dear Parliament, [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister: It's an address. The question will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister by Mr Süli, Minister without portfolio, responsible for the design, construction and commissioning of two new blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Mr István Ikotity, Member of the Council, notary, has the floor.
u2017-06-06-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, In connection with the planned Paks expansion, you refer to a HUF 4000 billion amount. [[Noise, loud conversation in the lines of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] And I'm sure the investment will be much more expensive than that. Although the data and the relevant contracts are being kept secret, we can be sure that the amount in question does not contain a number of serious items without which Paks II. You can't start power generation. I will give you some examples: there is no cost of developing a safe cooling solution for small water in the communicated price. There are no interest expenditures in the projected price, which may exceed HUF 1500 billion for the EUR 10 billion loan received for 20 years. Nor are they counting on the price of pump-store power plants, which is required to coordinate the operation of the line-flow generating power plant and the fluctuating electricity demand, according to studies carried out in the context of the Teller and Lévai projects, for at least HUF 500 billion. If we add the items mentioned here, we are already at HUF 3000-4000 billion, so the planned expansion will cost you double the amount you mentioned if the costs do not go away during the construction process. The problem is aggravated by the fact that the government calculated the return on the investment and the return on the current price, according to available data, for the 4,000 billion expenditure, which, at best, will be only half of the actual expenditure. So please tell me from what source the government intends to cover for the parallel operation of the old and new blocks and Paks II. the additional investments needed to integrate the system and whether these extra expenditures appear in the electricity price, or whether you prefer the unfair solution to half of the final bill [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Are they simply charged to the taxpayers of the present and future generations? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-06-06-64	Thank you, Congressman Ikotity, notary. I give the floor to Minister János Süli. [[12.50]]
u2017-06-06-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The cost of the investment will be fixed at EUR 12 billion. This will cover the full cost. There will be two blocks of this, and from this amount we will build a Fukushima-stop three additional generation power plants, and this will comply with domestic and international standards. The construction of the cooling system is also included in the price for all modes of operation and for connection to the network. So it's ready for a key, fixed price, and guaranteed to come from the cost that the Russian party has to pay. The operation of the new power plant does not need a pumped storage plant, as the system will continue to fail during this period because of the demise of power plants, studying the announcements of Mavir. Pumped storage plants would have a role to play, as you would like us to do, to increase the share of renewables, but the only way to integrate renewables into the system is to build these storage plants, if necessary. There are also other more modern technologies that can replace storage plants in Hungary. The economy of the two new Paks blocks was analysed by the Rothschild International Consulting Company and the Union and verified by calculation. The project will bring back the capital invested, generate interest, and will also generate profits, include waste disposal costs and, as appropriate, operating related wages. Paks II. an important means of combating climate change. Without replacing the falling blocks, Hungary's electricity supply would not be possible safely. Please accept my reply. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-66	Thank you, Minister János Süli. Dear Parliament, Attila Tilki, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy:. What tools does the government see to overcome the differences in the labour market between regions? It's an address. Congressman Attila Tilki has the floor.
u2017-06-06-67	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The average wage of physical workers increased by more than 12 percent in the first two months of the year, thanks to wage increases agreements at the permanent consultation forum of workers, employers and the government. The increase in gross and net earnings in both the competition and the public sector is crucial to the rise in real earnings, driven essentially by a 15% increase in the minimum wage and, in particular, by a 25% increase in the guaranteed minimum wage. The number of employees has increased by nearly 700,000 since 2010, with a decisive proportion of almost 480 thousand people in the competition sector. This increased the number of employees in the January-March 2017 period to over 4 million 400 thousand, which is 2.5 percent more than a year ago. So many people have not had a job in Hungary since the change of regime. The number of unemployed people has fallen to just over 200,000, which is an outstanding achievement. However, we also need to see that these positive results affect different regions to a different extent. Even within the counties, there are large differences between areas and settlements. With regard to the unemployment rate, the most favourable area remains the settlements along the Budapest-Győr axis. The most disadvantaged settlements are located in the southern areas of Somogy and Baranya, as well as in North-East Hungary, for example in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county. This is especially my constituency, Szatmár-Bereg. The public work programme is important, and it is not an exaggeration if I say that it is a lifesaving opportunity in many settlements, but it is not enough to effectively reduce regional disparities. Dear Secretary of State, The 2018 budget will be primarily a budget for people from work. That is why I am asking what instruments the Secretary of State sees in order to reduce labour market disparities between regions. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-06-68	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Tilki. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2017-06-06-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Following the change in government in 2010, government decisions in recent years have led to positive changes in labour market processes, resulting in an increase in employment. This means that more than 700,000 people now have jobs than after the 2010 government change. In percentage terms, this means that the number of people employed has increased by 17 percent, and the increase in the most disadvantaged counties has occurred to a greater extent than the average. For example, in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county employment increased by 27.5 percent, by 50 thousand people, in Hajdú-Bihar by 22.9 percent, by 42 thousand people, and in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county by 20.4 percent, by 45 thousand. Employment has been increased through so-called employment programmes financed by EU co-financing, such as the Youth Guarantee Programme, which involved 84 thousand people and financed 31 thousand of them. The GINOP programmes have more than HUF 500 billion in employment-supporting job creation proposals, and there is a high potential for underprivileged applications, as more resources can be obtained here and more jobs can be created. But I should also mention the operational programme for territorial development, which helps to develop local strategies and improve the unemployment situation through local pacts, called employment and cooperation partnerships, i.e. reducing the number of unemployed. The government's objective is clear: to reduce unemployment in disadvantaged areas. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-70	Thank you, Mr András Tállai State Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why has the remuneration of people with disabilities been reduced? Do you think it's acceptable for a law amendment to reduce someone's salary by 60%? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor.
u2017-06-06-71	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The government recently amended the social institutional employment rules. The aim of the legislative amendment adopted last autumn was that so-called development employment will be a new form of social employment, and I would like to quote precisely the aim of developing employment, as set out in the care development and rehabilitation plan, will be to prepare an individual for self-employment or for employment in the open labour market by providing a development and employment service appropriate to the individual's health, age, physical and mental condition. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Unfortunately, there are more and more examples here, ladies and gentlemen, of the fact that the transformation has been badly affected, many, and many, have significantly reduced their pay for the work. Here's a story I'd like to tell you. An intellectually obstructed girl works as a carpet weaver in a day care facility. So far, she has been employed in work rehabilitation for four hours, and until 1 April this year, 30 percent of the minimum wage was on a four-hour basis, so the 47-year-old woman, if she worked every day, earned 34 425 HUF. Due to the amendment of the law that came into force in April, the minimum amount that can be paid is less than the minimum hourly rate, which is only HUF 220 per hour, i.e. only HUF 14 256 per month, i.e. the remuneration of the employee has been reduced by 60 percent. To describe the situation, it is necessary to pay a daily fee, such as food costs. I would like to ask you if you think it is acceptable, Mr Secretary, that because of the amendment of the law someone's salary should be reduced by 60 percent or, kindly, tell me why the remuneration for the work of people with disabilities has been reduced. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2017-06-06-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. State Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer the question. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[13.00]]
u2017-06-06-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government's aim with the amendment of the law was to get as much access as possible, to create employment opportunities for as many people with disabilities as possible. The levels of support did not change with the amendment of the law. There are two levels. One is the case of employment, this is the relationship similar to the classic labour law relationship, at which time 100 percent is due, and in the case of development, which is not a classic job, which I will discuss later, there is 30 percent. At the same time as the minimum wage rose, these benefits increased, both 100 percent and obviously 30 percent. Who falls into which category, which category of allowance is entitled, is not decided by the government, but by the employer on the basis of a working psychologist's opinion. Looking at this case, as you quoted, we also looked at the contents of this post on Facebook, and here you can complain about the employer, as described above, because it is obviously not complete and detailed and requires a more thorough study. But it can be concluded that the employer transferred the person from an employment relationship to a development relationship, and for this, I do not know what kind of work psychologist opinion he had or did not have. Our intention was to expand, and we also provide increasing resources for this every year. The amount of support per hour also increased from the previous HUF 744 to HUF 895 in the case of employment. If I look at the additional resources, in 2016 and 17 more and more billions were added. In 2010, this was based on HUF 3 billion in the budget, and now we have raised it to HUF 4.6 billion, while raising the minimum wage to HUF 238 million. So this budget of 3 billion has increased by 1.9 billion, precisely to give as many as possible benefits. If, by means of an individual employer's decision, you are told that you have fewer benefits, you should file a complaint. There's a mechanism that can fix this, because it's a wrongful decision. If someone's work was complete last year, then again this year, and their funding is higher. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-06-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. However, I respectfully ask you to try to keep up the two-minute time frame. Dear Parliament, Mr László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister for National Development: It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-06-06-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As the biggest disappointment of the last decade, Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County and its population have experienced the shameful performance of stopping as a sideline to the Orbán-Simicska conflict, and the construction of the M4 motorway has been impossible for a long time. The highway would not only link Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County with the capital, but it would also have given development opportunities to one of the poorest areas of the country, the Nagykunság, the villages along the Tisza region, which have been waiting for this opportunity for decades. Unfortunately, the construction of the motorway has remained only a cherished desire for decades for the honest-working great-grandmen, because, as we have learned, the government is building not a motorway, but a demented highway, and not in the heart of the Great Community, but only to its distant border. With this solution, the government connects Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County with the capital, a route where most accidents occur as one of the most commonly used routes of transit to Romania. If the main road number 4 has been called the road of death, what road will the most dangerous form of fake M4 be? On the other hand, government promises about when the journey will be completed are becoming more and more embarrassing, since the journey was initially promised by 2016, and it is now clear that the planned phase and the not-for-greatness phase can only be completed by the end of 2019. As to whether or not the construction of a fake highway called M4 could continue in the Great Kunság, the government has already forgotten to promise. Dear Secretary of State, In view of all this, I think it is timely to clarify some of the issues. How long was the M4 fake highway not built after the fight between Orbán and Simicska? Why do the people of the Great Community and the people of the Tisza, well-intentioned people, take the time to build the highway? Do you even plan to reach the M4 road in the heart of the Grand Kunság to Karcag or to the neighbouring county border, to the Hajdú-Bihar counties? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-06-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-06-77	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government's main objective is to continuously develop and improve the state of the domestic road network. The dilemma you have enriched with colourful indicators is based on the fact that, in addition to European Union funds, we have now used significant domestic resources in road construction, and the possibility of doing so has sometimes, including EU barriers, actually reported deadlines changes. In addition to the current 1450 km expressway, more than 900 km of motorways, motorways or European highways will be built from HUF 2470 billion until 2022. Within the framework of the programme, the Budapest-Szolnok-Törökszentmiklós-Fégyver, as well as the sections of the M4 motorway - i.e. the expressway - are being built at several paces between the border of the new village of Berettyó. It is planned that the sections between Budapest-Törökszentmiklós will be completed in 2019 and 2021, while the sections between Berettyóújfalu and Nagykereki, the Romanian border will be completed in 2018 and 2019. The government's priority is to create safe transport conditions for road users, regardless of name, to relieve municipalities of transit traffic. Thank you for your attention. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-06-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister for National Development a question: a state real estate project disguised as a sports investment? It's an address. Congressman Ákos Hadházy has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-06-06-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In December 2014, the Hungarian State purchased a Budapest, IX. district property near the Danube, Wing, formerly Wallis Zrt. However, the State did not purchase the property directly, but the owner of it, i.e. Duna Passage Kft., from Wing Zrt. The former property of the area here planned to build a thousand apartments and 130,000 square meters of office, but on the basis of a government decision, the government plans to build an athletic stadium on the property. We have been writing with Minister Sesztas before, there have been questions about this, but he has avoided the answers very much. The Minister did not answer my previous question about the specific purpose of the purchase of the property by the State in 2014 and why the purchase price of 16,5 billion was justified. I didn't even get an answer as to why Duna Passage Kft. didn't buy the property directly from the state. We know that the property was already owned by the State prior to the purchase of the company, so we believe that it could have obtained expensive land in a more cost-effective and much cheaper way in the event of a public interest objective. He also owed the answer, Minister, that Duna Passage Kft. How much did you get to the area in question before? That's the kind of data you can tell me, because this company is already state-owned. Have any valuations been made before the public purchase? Why didn't you check with IX? with the district council or with the citizens concerned before the architectural design contest was launched a few weeks ago? Wouldn't some social consultation have been justified before deciding on development plans of this magnitude, or were they thinking in the same way as the Olympic settlement, that it was completely irrelevant what people thought about it? It's also a question of whether they really wanted to build an athletic stadium, or if it's just an act, and in the background, the real investor is getting ready. We wouldn't be surprised. [[Erzsébet Schmuck applauds.]]
u2017-06-06-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-06-81	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Part of the property on the Danube coast in question was already owned directly by the State prior to the acquisition. Magyar Nemzeti Vagyonkezelő Zrt. on the basis of a decision issued by the Minister for the Supervision of State Property as a shareholder, he decided on State involvement in order to ensure the future uniform development of the property and its environment. The value of the property was determined by the real estate sales expert at HUF 16.8 billion. [[13.10]] In order to ensure public ownership, the State purchased the non-State-owned company. In doing so, we considered, inter alia, the intent of the seller, the conditions for the exploitation of the property at the time of the transaction and the fact that the development concept was the property of the company. Duna Passage Kft. the acquisition of a number of different ownership shares over nearly ten years at different time points has created the existing ownership structure. Issues relating to periods prior to the acquisition of public ownership in the company may also be explained by the then owners of the company in the light of the business interests of the contracting parties. As described in the public design contest notice of the athletic stadium, Annex IX is amended as follows: The chief architect of the district participated in the evaluation of the proposal as a voting member of the jury, representing the interests of Ferencváros. The district gave a written guarantee during the tender of Budapest 2024 Nonprofit Zrt. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] So these intentions are known and agreed by the district. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources, "Is it serious that parents are asked to report on what is available in school buffets?" It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-06-06-83	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Coke, pizza, hamburger, chocolate, sugar, sugar, sugar - these are the most attractive offers of school buffets. We have heard many promises that our children's eating opportunities are being shifted towards a healthy way, but the fact is that no real action has been taken yet, and we know that the famous Mensa reform has not succeeded as planned. According to an EMMI decree of 2012, when operating a school buffet or vending machine, the opinion of the school health service is necessary to assess what is healthy or what is not. You've been in government for seven years, and that's all you've got. Attila Beneda, Deputy State Secretary for Family and Population Policy, asked the Education Office and KLIK to help the government to break down contracts with school buffets if they are not just selling healthy food. Secretary of State, it is clear that you do not know the children, nor do you know the schools, nor do you know the entrepreneurs. The best part is that the Deputy State Secretary asked the parents to report if a parent saw that an energy drink or unhealthy food was offered at his child's school, then it could be indicated at the institution, the district and the government office. Secretary of State, in most cases a parent is working, and from eight o'clock after the children went to school, he's not at school. These buffets are usually open from 8:00 to 2:00, there's no way for a parent to go in, what they sell in the cafeteria. The other thing, Mr. Secretary, is that you can't really go in there, because it's forbidden for parents to go to school during this period. Secretary of State, there are state agencies who could see what kind of food or products they sell in the cafeteria. What kind of snitch system do you want to build? Let this be the responsibility of the management, and do not ask the parents to do so; the parent has virtually no possibility of doing so. And then I'll ask you, Mr. Secretary, how you intend to do that. What surveys were carried out, and what were the results of the surveys? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-06-06-84	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-06-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, We have also learned from the Hungarian Socialist Party that the government is building a network of informants in schools against trans fatty acids. But seriously, honourable Member, we would like the children's breakfast to be a piece of energy drink. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That is not what we are talking about!]] And then eat a chip for ten hours or not, because if you don't, I think it's worth doing for everyone. Here in Parliament and in the government, we have made legislation that would prevent children from getting used to eating chips, but instead try to eat them as healthy as possible. We know the harmful effect of an energy drink on its long-term effects, obesity and, in other words, over-sugared soft drink, sugar or other substances. If we have a common goal to push these back, then the government office, the municipality, the district center and the parents will have to fight it together. This is what we have done: we have asked the government office to draw attention to the violation of the law, or if there is an energy drink in vending machines; we have asked the school leaders, the heads of the district centers, and besides the government office, the local government staff, and we have also called the parents' attention to who and how they can turn to if they have complaints. We believe that many parents are paying attention to their children's meals, trying to provide healthy food at home, trying to train their young people to exercise, to play sports, to live a healthy life, and it does bother them that they are trying to teach their children a healthy way of life if they keep seeing the unhealthy products they want their children to learn about. For you know, it is well known how high the problem of obesity and the associated circulatory diseases, cardiovascular diseases, is a problem in Hungary. Therefore, it is important that all together - parents, educators, and everyone - make sure that children grow up healthier. I regret that the direction of the political attack for the Hungarian Socialist Party is precisely why we are united [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] so the kids can get healthy food at school. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Grimlock: They don't get it yet!]]
u2017-06-06-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Egyed, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question:. Lőrinc Mészáros's man is hungry for a meal in Miskolc? It's an address. By answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed Mr László Trócsányi, Minister of Justice, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, to whom Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, replied. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-06-06-87	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The lucky company selected by the Miskolc city leadership was previously included in the news in connection with Lőrinc Mészáros, Bakony Hús Kft. for sale. The company's ownership has only been engaged in catering since 2015, but they receive noticeably many orders. Currently there is one person at the Hospital and Menza étekülés Szolgáltató Kft. As far as outsourcing is concerned, there are a few questions that raise suspicions. The other thing is that Members received material on such an important issue only a few hours before the beginning of the meeting, but before that, it was announced that the company would take over Miskolc's reception from mid-April, but that decision on labour law and financial matters was taken only on that day at the general meeting. Dear Secretary of State, At the moment, it seems that they are about to eat the catering market with a company of their interests. How is it possible for untrained companies to receive meals from hospitals and county seats? Employees are uncertain about their future, they are concerned about whether they can be reduced, cooking kitchens are closed, quality deterioration, whether they will receive a 20% wage increase promised by the municipality. The employees did not receive reassuring answers from the company selected by the municipality. There is no guarantee that there will be no increase in the cost of eating teachers, social workers, daycare workers. Therefore, Jobbik expects the municipality to guarantee the preservation of cooking kitchens, the retention of jobs, the payment of the promised increase in wages. Outsourcing of mass caterers should not endanger the care of children and the elderly. I look forward to a meaningful and reassuring response from the Secretary of State to all Miskolc. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-06-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Zsolt Egyed has just asked Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, to answer his question. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-06-06-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I am very sorry that, even after Jobbik's seven-year parliamentary presence, he believes that local government questions can be answered in Parliament by a ministry. As mentioned in the question, practically the municipality was asked to guarantee that the municipality had promised, the municipality had decided. Obviously, Jobbik has representation in the Assembly of Miskolc, I think these issues should be clarified there, there is the possibility of interpellation, but I am confident that we are not at this level, that I must explain this to you here in the Hungarian Parliament. If we look at the overall state of mass catering itself, then it is clear that in recent years the resources have increased, the range of beneficiaries has expanded, and the government is striving, as the previous speech has shown, to have a supply in schools, in catering for healthy food distribution and the use of organic food. The government is developing a quality assurance system for this purpose, and there are a number of legislative steps that will facilitate this, and you will also be able to meet it here in Parliament. So this issue, on the other hand, is not related. [[13.20]] If you have a problem with perhaps wanting to bring back anomalies from an earlier system, when multinational companies, foreign-owned companies dominated these markets, who knows where foreign food was fed to people and children in Hungarian catering, then that is another question, but then speak frankly. What is wrong with you if a Hungarian company provides public services with Hungarian raw materials, Hungarian agricultural and agricultural background? Moreover, there is competition on the market, so it is clear that the question of prices is what applies primarily to quality requirements. These must have been taken into account by the municipality. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy:. Why is the government killing small businesses by raising the minimum wage and supporting multinationals instead? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-06-06-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, According to KSH data, only 4713 convenience stores were forced to close in 2016. According to the interest representatives, most of them were quite simply unable to cope with rising labour costs. This factor will hit them even harder from 2017. The government introduced the correct step, the 25 per cent increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, by only compensating small businesses with a 7 per cent reduction in contributions. They didn't leave them any time to adapt, and at the end of autumn 2016, they realized that the era of cheap wages was over. The raise, in a good fidesz way, was suddenly introduced, not in agreement with anyone. In other words, you could consult someone in the background, because multinationals and large companies received a significant tax reduction. Surprising measures in the economy are not good. Sudden, thought-like changes are particularly bad for small businesses that operate in a difficult region that is barely profitable. Yet, they would be desperately needed where, by the way, there are hardly any jobs, businesses, commerce, life prospects. You can't get to him the way you do to let his worm fall. More than that, nothing shows how much of a lie the government's rhetoric is when it talks about the support of Hungarian businesses. However, workers' wages could be increased in such a way that this does not impose a greater burden on small businesses, by making the minimum wage tax-free, but we have already said this many times. Dear Secretary of State, How many small businesses have to go bankrupt to find out that Hungarian small businesses should not have been compensated for the multinationals? Does the government even know what the impact of its actions is, whether they're doing a survey or an investigation? Thank you for your attention.
u2017-06-06-92	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, will answer the question expressed by the Member. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-06-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In my opinion, the LMP should decide what policy it pursues with regard to small businesses and workers. In the case of this speech, I understand you have criticised why the government has raised the minimum wage and hence the wage level, and the other speech is about why incomes in Hungary are low and that this is the reason why more workers leave the country. It has to be decided because the two together are uncredited by the LMP. By the way, small and medium-sized enterprises no longer have the biggest problem with why the corporate tax rate is 9 per cent, their biggest problem is not that the public burden on labour is now reduced by 5 per cent or the rate of social contribution tax is 22 per cent, and the minimum wage is not the biggest problem for small and medium-sized enterprises, but, if you believe it is not, your problem is that they are short-staffed and that there is not enough labour, and the problem is not that small and medium-sized enterprises are able to manage their business effectively. I think that in Hungary there is an adequate economic environment, an adequate economic environment, and an appropriate tax system for small and medium-sized enterprises is in place, because, in addition to the low rate of corporate tax, small and medium-sized enterprises can choose a simpler method of taxation, such as the amount of so-called kata, where they do not pay taxes in essence, they pay fixed taxes only on their own, or the kiva, the small enterprise tax, for which the company pays everything with a 14 per cent key. All in all, therefore, the Congresswoman is not asking for real problems. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, notary of the Parliament, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy a question. It's an address. The floor is for Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary. Here you go.
u2017-06-06-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Low salaries, poor working conditions. You know the situation, over 600,000 people have left the country in the last seven years. It's not random. Without the need for completeness, I'm just saying the following things in the headlines. Water Management Directorates - it would be essential to achieve moderate wage development, but they do nothing for many years. Only now, in recent times, more than 110 people have left the water boards. Or there's been a demonstration in the last few days, it's been enough! With the title, the paramedics, who are naturally not satisfied with their wages - no wonder, with 110-120 thousand forints' salaries - and their social respect, because you put them in a position that is unacceptable. But if we look at the Treasury - the Treasury - they understand what you're running, I can tell you, they're about to strike. Of course, to strike, we can't, we know that very well, but they haven't been given wage development, salary development in nine years, while they are engaged in the wage development of 900 thousand people, the affairs of state, ecclesiastical, foundational schools, local government institutions, but besides that, they are also dealing with the payment of European Union funds and much more, with the distribution of sovereign debt and much more not to mention. But we could say the things of the pedagogical union, they're struggling, they're trying to coordinate, but you can't. And we can also see what's going on in the trade, and we can also see what happened to the president of the trade union for electricity workers, how he got fired. Well, one question at the end. When are you going to realize that what you're doing, and what you're not doing, how much you miss and what you're doing, instead of doing something completely different for employees? Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-06-06-96	Thank you very much. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds to the question expressed by Mr Nándor Gúr. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-06-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Your assessment of the situation is entirely disproved by the reality and the facts, as the level of employment has been the highest since the change of regime for years, and unemployment is a record low. I think that if your sentences were true, it would not have been possible since the 2010 change of government, that the number of employees has increased by over 700 thousand. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] In addition, between 2010 and 2016, real wages increased by 23,8 percent, and if I add the 8.2 percent increase at the beginning of 2017, the increase in real wages has increased by more than 30 percent over the last six years. Contrary to what happened during your administration, when real wages fell by 14 percent, 13th month's salary stopped, and 13th month's pension was also taken away. So before you criticize the current government, look at yourself first and evaluate your own activities. On the other hand, the current government is creating jobs, increasing incomes, and significantly increasing the number of jobs. In addition, it has been able to achieve a significant wage increase in the public sector, with almost all sectors benefiting from the career model and career change. I think that what the government is doing should be recognised at international level, both in terms of employment and income growth, and if not by opposition parties, but by analysts who judge the country, it is in any case high and high in view of what has happened in this country. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.30]]
u2017-06-06-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It's 1:30. We're at the end of the question. It's time for immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, Member László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Whose benefit is it? It's an address. Congressman László Cook has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-06-06-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary has been selling so-called settlement bonds since January 2013. There is such a thing elsewhere in the world, because in exchange for five or ten times that amount of money, business plans, job creation obligations, citizens of other countries can also obtain a lighter establishment. Hungary does not ask for such things, and here we have the maiden name of this bond, so that people of national importance can obtain a permit to reside easily. Of course, I could also ask Prime Minister that of about 20,000 people who have received a residence permit or residence permit in Hungary, he should also say one of them, who has a major national economic significance for the Hungarian national economy. But that's not the main question here, but the main question, I think, is business. This turns out that if we look at how this system developed, how this system was born. On the proposal of Antal Rogán, the Hungarian Parliament has entrusted the Economic Committee led by Antal Rogán, which has designated the participating organisations that do not make bad money, but are doing a damn good job in this business. According to press reports, from a 500 billion forint business, these companies were able to take around 110-130 billion forints, as the press says. The Hungarians could have had this 110-130 billion forint, and of course you must ask, only your minister couldn't answer that last time, so I have to ask you, Prime Minister: why do we need these intermediary companies, which are offshore companies? One thing we know for sure about them is that they do not tax in Hungary and do not act in the interests of the Hungarian people. Why do we need them? Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-06-06-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Prime Minister, I salute you and give you the floor to answer.
u2017-06-06-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In short, I can only tell you that the opposition has repeatedly objected to this, and we have talked about it about 16 times in front of this House. Compared to what I said earlier, I can't and I don't want to say anything new. The opposition's request that, even according to the opposition, the state of public finances has improved significantly and that Hungary can now easily obtain funds from the financial markets, so let's consider the settlement bond system, well, this opposition request has been accepted, we have considered and the issue of such bonds has been abolished. Opposite success, congratulations to you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Haughty: And who goes to prison, and when?]]
u2017-06-06-102	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Congressman László Szakács. Here you go.
u2017-06-06-103	Thank you very much for the floor. Actually, you dodged my answer, Prime Minister. This is about 110-130 billion forints going to these companies. Let's just say that's all the health care debts we've accumulated in a year. Every year we struggle here in Parliament to see if the government will give this to the budget in advance, or later, as such a end-of-month loan. Let's say that this is half of the 13th month pension that these companies are taking away from Hungary anyway, and it certainly is not taxed here in Hungary, while there is a State Debt Management Centre, National Trade Center, embassies, consulates, countless foreign economic attaché, and compared to that, we need external assistance from the government that was as independent as the buda in waste management, drinking water, sewage, whatever it was. Why was it necessary for these companies to take so much money from here, Prime Minister?
u2017-06-06-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2017-06-06-105	As I said, I have replied 16 times, and I will say it 17 times: the Hungarian budget has not been taken for a penny, and money has been added to the budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. László Kács: Debt! Zoltán Pride: And how much more could they have brought!]]
u2017-06-06-106	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gábor Vona, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Don't fight, act!" It's an address. Congressman Gábor Vona has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-06-06-107	Mr. Prime Minister, Three weeks ago, the European Commission adopted Jobbik's initiative on the Wages Union, so it is possible to start collecting signatures. We have asked you on this issue several times and you have always told us not to turn to Brussels, not to ask for help, not to give extra rights to the European Commission. The thing is, Prime Minister, that is not what this initiative is about. We didn't say that, you didn't read this initiative until today. This is about including the principle of equal pay for equal work among the principles of the functioning of the European Union, to build a European Union of solidarity, social and justice, where everyone can thrive in their homeland, where the free movement of persons is a right and not a compulsion, as it is now. The European Commission has recognised the legitimacy of this issue, and has found it legally and economically sound, so that the European referendum or the European Citizens' Initiative can begin. This is a historic turning point, the beginning of a new era, Prime Minister. It is also an opportunity for you to reconsider your position, because we have taken the European Union on your word, we have put all of Eastern Central Europe together behind a good cause, and this is your chance to think about how to proceed with this proposal. I know, Prime Minister, that it is very difficult for you to accept that if someone else is right, I also know that it is not customary for you to support someone else's initiative or not like them, but I am asking you to take it upon yourself, Prime Minister, and stop fighting. Nine out of ten wars you're starting, Prime Minister, it doesn't make any sense. Hungarian people are very tired of this, Hungarian people are actually waiting for a peaceful, peaceful country building and not obsessive war. This is what Hungarian people need, and I know that we do not agree on a lot of things, and we will not agree on more things as we approach the elections, but Prime Minister, come out of your little world and see that this is different. This is a national matter. If you are a statesman, you cannot support this initiative, so I ask you to support it, or I may even put the question in a way that is more important to you, Prime Minister: the Hungarian people's wages or Árpád Habony's crocodile skin bag? Thank you for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-06-108	I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2017-06-06-109	First of all, thank you very much for the word and the question. "Don't go to war, act," says the congressman. Yeah, we're getting to make love not war by now. You love Islam, you love migrants, you love dogs, you love oligarchs, you love money, and you love Brussels now. The only thing missing from his head is a flower wreath, but I'm guessing we'll be able to see it in the next poster campaign. A life philosophy might go away, but it's frivolous for a leader. It's time to understand that you can't protect the border with teddy bears and bouquets of flowers, that requires decisions. Neither can wages be increased by resorting to a humble request from Brussels. For us, it is incomprehensible that there are always people in Hungary who think - and also a Member of Parliament - that Brussels will create a wage policy that will be good for Hungarian people and that, consequently, the profits of international multinationals will be less. I would also like to see this Brussels. If I see this, I will apply for a raise, and I will trust the Hungarian government. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-110	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gábor Vona has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2017-06-06-111	Prime Minister, I find your situation almost irretrievable. You can't get out of the world of your little obsessions. When we have an argument, you always talk about how much I've changed. Yeah, I've changed, from a president of a national radical party to a president of a national people's party, which is a big change and I'll take it. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties. István Szilárd Németh: Modestly!]] But, Prime Minister, have you not changed? [[It's grumpy. The president's ringing the bell.]] You haven't changed much, have you? Prime Minister, you've become a burned-out communist from a brilliant young Democrat! [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Wow! Let's hear it for Jobbik. The president's ringing the bell.]] Not ideologically, but mentality. You've fought so much with the Communists, Prime Minister, you've become just like them. Well, think about it, do we mess with your posters, or do you mess with ours? Are my people harassing your family, or are your people harassing our families? Do I collect private property through a strome, or do you, Prime Minister? Am I at war with half the world, or are you? Prime Minister, it's all you! We are interested in one thing, one thing that motivates us to increase the standard of living in Hungary, so that all Hungarians can thrive in their homeland, that is what the Wages Union is all about, not what you're talking about. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So, Prime Minister, I'm asking you to try to support this initiative, believe me, it would be good for you in every way. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[13.40]]
u2017-06-06-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. One-minute rejoinder, Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2017-06-06-113	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, for the record, I would like to say that when Jobbik's representative of the questioner came down as a communist, the Socialist Party did not applaud. [[Delightfulness and sporadic applause in the ranks of the governing parties. Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] You have to get used to any rejection, no matter what. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] In any case, as far as Jobbik is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, all I can say is that in history, there has never been one person who can just buy a party. We've seen a lot of things that we've been sitting here in Parliament for almost 30 years, and we've seen a billionaire start a party. [[Interviews in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik. The president's ringing the bell.]] We have also seen him take over a party, he has been elected president there, we have also seen him quit and set up a new party; but we have never seen a billionaire come and ukmukk buy an entire party before. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély: Yes, you can! It was yours before! Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Are you talking about Soros?]] [[Interviews in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik. The president's ringing the bell.]] We've seen him take over a party, he's been elected president there, we've seen him quit and he's founded a new party; but we've never seen a billionaire come and ukmukk buy an entire party before. (Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Yes, you can! It was yours before! - Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Are you thinking of Soros? Congratulations on that. (Intercoms in the lines of MSZP and Jobbik. - The president's ringing. As far as wages are concerned, the minimum wage was HUF 73 500 in 2010 and HUF 138 000 in 2018, with a minimum wage of HUF 89 500 in 2010 and HUF 180 500 in 2018. Thank you for your appreciation. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-114	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Member István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, notary of the Parliament, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Can you govern without money? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-06-06-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] 27 years ago, the process called a change of regime or a change of regime took place, which included seven four-year government cycles, and we started the last year of the last. During that time, eight prime ministers led the government, sat in the seat of the Prime Minister, of which you were the one who began his longest, now 11 years and 12 years in this chair. That is why I think, and also because the second longest-running Prime Minister has been sitting in this chair for just 4.5 years, that you are the one most competent to answer my question, if you are the one who can answer it. And here's the question. It is very clear that in the last 27 years, the opportunities of municipalities have been continuously reduced, if not even evenly, and their resources have also been reduced. What is the reason for this, Prime Minister? Obviously, in terms of its possibilities, I cannot say the legislative changes in a minute or two and appreciate this, but I can, not on the basis of any statistics, but on the basis of the closing accounting laws, so in law, see how the budgetary resources provided to municipalities have changed. In 1990, this resource was 18% compared to the budget as a whole. Eighteen percent! It's now down to three percent, less than five percent. From 18 percent to less than 3 percent in 27 years! It's a huge loss to municipalities, lower levels, self-government. Prime Minister, I think that this measure, this process in society, is causing significant damage and is a serious sin. I look forward to your answer as to why this is happening. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2017-06-06-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2017-06-06-117	Congressman, please, this is a serious question, and you deserve more than two minutes of speed. The starting point is true, so even if I were to deny it, if I lived in the next election, I would have been on the government for 12 years, or I could be a pro-government representative. It kind of ruins that I had to spend 16 years in opposition. [[Defiance.]] But as you can see, I'm not in a position of balance yet. This gives us hope. As to the essence of the question: if you have already outlined historical dimensions, because you have gone all the way back to the regime change, then perhaps if I answer in this language framework, you will not feel excessive, but the political community of Fidesz and the Christian Democratic People's Party feels that we have re-established the local government system after 2010. We have re-established the municipal system, because we have seen the figures show that the municipal system has basically collapsed. The municipal system accumulated serious debts from 1990 to 2010 that made it impossible, not only questioned it, but made it impossible to function as a real municipality. That's where they were dictated, because they were up to their necks in debt. The reason I dare to choose this word is that I have given you an answer, because we have simply taken 1300 billion forints of debt off the shoulders of the municipalities. If we hadn't taken that off, each Hungarian government today - I might be exaggerating, only 90 percent, but - would be bankrupt. The municipal system is not bankrupt because the KDNP-Fidesz government has taken a debt of HUF 1300 billion off the shoulders of the municipalities. This only meant HUF 250 billion for Budapest. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-118	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Congressman István Ikotity.
u2017-06-06-119	I would like to remind Prime Minister that from 18 percent, the amount allocated to municipalities was reduced to below 3 percent in proportion to the budget. If you look at this HUF 1369 billion, you can see that this is about 6-7 percent of the budget, so this should be given to the municipalities in a year, not seven years. In fact, if we were to refer back to the number 90, we would have to get double in one year, which you have now distributed for seven years. But I think that the debt was due to the fact that the municipalities had been given less money for a long time. And allow me to conclude with a quote, since you own a government that calls yourself a Christian, a national, a conservative government. All that a community, organised at a smaller and lower level, is capable of carrying out and supplying, is passed on to a larger and higher level of association, an injustice and, at the same time, a serious crime, the subversive of the right order of society. CHAPTER XI I quoted those words from Pope Pius. What you are carrying out in this regard is a serious sin, then. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2017-06-06-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2017-06-06-121	In this short, one-minute swordsmanship, you use authority that I cannot compete with, so I can only appeal to common sense. If a system collapses because it accumulates a debt of HUF 1300 billion, while the central government of this system accumulates 85 percent of the total national product as a debt, i.e. there is no money in the centre, there is only debt below, and it is possible to find a way out of this by maintaining the local government, by leaving the government, by leaving the development, and by giving money to it, I think it is a reasonable solution, something that I think, if not a party policy perspective, but a calm, calm, sound argument, then you could even see as a result. That's what we feel. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-122	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Csizi, a representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question, "What else can Botka's fortune hide?" It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás as a response to an urgent public mission. I respectfully ask you if you'll accept the person you're responding to. [[Péter Chizi nods.]] Yeah. Congressman indicates his acceptance of Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás as a response. Congressman Péter Csizi has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-06-06-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, On this afternoon's debate day, we will often ask ourselves how much we can believe that the 13th month pension will be restored by László Botka, who, by the way, voted for everything that was at the expense of pensioners. What we would like to know now is what the candidate for Prime Minister of the Socialists is hiding, as he raises more and more questions about the continued improvement, absolving and disclosure of the Mayor of Szeged's declaration of assets. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] Luxury carriages, lake houses, expensive watches, and who knows what else will come out in the coming days and months around László Botka's estate. [[Dr. László Kács: So, what do you know about the internal affairs of Botka? Zoltán Grimlock: Is there a secret data collection?]] László Botka's wealth, we can also say that it changes almost like the weather: day by day, sometimes like this, sometimes like that. As the Socialists now claim to call it among themselves, he does not want to admit his wealth, as the Fidesz of Szeged wanted to know whether the hidden lake site, which was set up in the name of his wife, had no other assets than László Botka's, was prevented by the MSZP and DK. [[13.50]] Although electoral cooperation is still in question, although disagreement with Ferenc Gyurcsány is very spectacular in the window, yet when it comes to the past of the left, László Botka's wealth, the socialists and DKs suddenly close together. The question immediately arises why the socialist and DK representatives do not want to show the world what real wealth the candidate for Prime Minister of the Socialists has. Dear Secretary of State, When can we find out what the Botka fortune is really hiding, what legal or other initiatives could the truth finally be found out? [[Zoltán Gőgös: Rogán is more routine on this subject. A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. My fellow Members in MSZP, and I ask you to try to bear it with patience, fourth to fifth, Mr Bellózó, and then you will be next. So until then, if you can, be quiet. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-06-125	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Mayor Botka, the candidate for Prime Minister of the MSZP, is a local government and, as such, he is obliged to make a declaration of assets. In Hungarian politics Hungarian politicians must make a declaration of property, this declaration of property is one of the strictest in Europe, if not the strictest system. The question, however, is how people use it and how they try or do not try to circumvent their obligation to make a declaration of assets. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: Ask Rogán!]] The questions you raised are obviously very far-reaching, and if you asked why the socialist and DK majority in the Szeged assembly prevented the mayor's declaration of property from being examined during the declaration of assets procedure, I think that this may include the fact that the socialists simply and simply want DK to prevent the mayor from becoming Prime Minister, because they themselves harm their Prime Minister's candidate to throw him into a case in which long-term speculations may nuance the extent to which he has acquired wealth and how he manages it. In addition, it is the Szeged General Assembly who is entitled to examine the declaration of assets, and in accordance with the legislation, there is a committee that records the declarations of assets. Public declarations of assets can be viewed by everyone, and in the declaration of property of family members, it is the Committee for the declaration of assets itself, the Committee for the management of declarations of assets, who can look into it and draw conclusions from it in the course of proceedings relating to a declaration of assets. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[Dr. László Varga: Well, that was very weak.]] For a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman Péter Csizi has the floor. Here you go, Congressman. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: How about this?]]
u2017-06-06-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you for your reply, honourable Secretary of State. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Of course, there may be some kind of inheritanceal division between a husband and a wife, but what we are curious about here is why László Botka is hiding luxury items from his own declaration of property, and why he does not want to put it to the public, as you have said, under law. And of course, if there is so much secrecy, we ask ourselves how these luxury items were bought by the candidate of the Socialist Prime Minister. One thing is certain: in recent weeks, it has been revealed that, in practice, Botka has become discredited by politics in every subject in which it manifests itself and has become discredited to the public. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is for Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-06-129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Obviously, the issue of credibility or lack of credibility is extremely important in the life of a candidate for Prime Minister and in the life of a party seeking government. I think that one of the very important issues and measures of this credibility or inadequacy is that, for example, László Botka negotiates with Soros in Brussels to break down the fence that protects the Hungarian borders. Obviously, this meeting creates the basis for Soros to finance the campaign with which László Botka would then destroy the fence, endangering the security of the Hungarian people, ignoring the interests of the country. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP. A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Attila Mesterházy, representative of the MSZP - give your own fellow Member the opportunity to tell you - you wish to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:, New challenge? It's an address. Congressman Attila Mesterházy has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-06-06-131	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I do not want to ask Mr President today about his previous conspiracy theories, when he has just saved the government from the Americans, and not even from the bank panic that he has fantastically averted, but indeed about a new challenge, which seems to have been the new President's task over the last few years, and this is the privatisation of the MKB. It is clear today that this process was nothing more than that the state saved a bank, and then this bank was played over to the Fidesz people, and it was done on the basis of the recipe, of course, that all this had to be done with public money, along with the greatest secrecy, and it is clear that it was most inaccessible. But the end result is that you conducted this, so I have to ask you these questions, and it's clear that the Fidesz bank has been set up. This bank has two owners on the part of Fidesz through strómános: one is you and the other is the Prime Minister. From this point on, I must address my question to you, since it is your son, Adam Balogh, your confidant, Mr Szemerei, who is your cousin and, on the part of Mr Orbán, Lőrinc Mészáros who owns this bank. That is why I would ask the President - here Prime Minister was joking with the Communists, then I would ask you, as an ex-proud member of the MSZMP [[Defiance from the ranks of the MSZP.]] - whether this process is over, so do they want to continue to buy the Savings Bank, Szeremley's bank, Granite Bank, MagNet Bank, so do they want to fatten Fidesz's own house bank and what the goal is? Is this the goal of giving money to fidesz entrepreneurs in an even more opaque way? Not on a market basis, of course, and in addition to business secrecy, because it would make sense to acquire such a serious bank in Hungary, and from this point forward, these Fidesz entrepreneurs should not be financed by Exim, not by MKB, or from different budgets. And the last question is, will you leave the head of this fantastic big bank? Because once the bank has been stolen, that's all we'll get, the Hungarian taxpayers, is that you're disappearing from the head of the central bank. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-06-06-132	Thank you very much. I give the floor to President György Matolcsy. With all due respect, Mr. President. Here you go.
u2017-06-06-133	Thank you very much. Prime Minister! Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Well, you're out of the field. You, of course, have spent weeks, months, which you obviously know better than others, how this change of government was so strongly promoted by the US Chief Executive. You immediately, after I said a few sentences about this, you immediately, although the United States was not mentioned, did not mention the agent, yet you knew who the story was about. So, uh, there's this old story that everyone's going back to the crime scene a little bit, and you've always been back on that subject. How come you're not coming back to this? You didn't realize that you knew more, more important things than we did? And you should share that with us. How did you know once again, Congressman, that the President of the Central Bank was talking about that country, that embassy and that manager? As for the case of the MKB: this is a real Hungarian XXI. 100th century success story. He's not alone, because we have a series of similar success stories. This bank has accumulated losses of HUF 400 billion in four years of foreign ownership. [[14.00]] This bank was cleaned by the government - handing it over to the Hungarian National Bank - by means of a bank resolution procedure, and then - and then! - privatized him. That, instead of 400 billion losses, this bank appeared in the books with HUF 37 billion in revenue after the purchase price of HUF 18 billion and EUR 55 million, this is a success story. [[Sándor Burány: Revenue or profit?]] I wasn't and won't be the owner or CEO of this bank. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-06-134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. One-minute rejoinder, Congressman Attila Mesterházy, please.
u2017-06-06-135	Mr President, I would like to remind you that the immediate question is that I should ask you and you should answer, not you asking me. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] But I was thinking that I have some good psychologists, psychiatrists, I'd give you their phone numbers, because maybe this would be useful for you, listening to your answer. You know, I've come up with a sharp logic when you're talking about the embassy of a great allied NATO country in Hungary, so I think you're the only one who didn't want to say the United States of America, which hasn't been denied since it happened otherwise, because they're throwing the ball here and there all the time. But that's not the point. That's the other one. It actually made me sad, Mr. President, because I really hoped that you would leave the central bank, and now you have refuted that. I trust that this situation will change, and I hope that it will disappear from the head of the central bank, I believe that once again let me repeat, just for the record: you have stolen a bank, made it a Fidesz bank, so that you can finance your own friends through it. That's the fact, and you didn't deny it, but you did. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you.
u2017-06-06-136	Thank you very much. One-minute rejoinder from President György Matolcsy, please.
u2017-06-06-137	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Yeah, well, you're back at the scene of the crime, affecting that big country. Oh, there are other great NATO countries. [[Deterioration in opposition benches. Sándor Buårány: Doctor! Gábor Bellozó: Is this man the President of the Central Bank?]] He knows I'll name him if I want to name the country. I didn't, you knew. How did you know again? Honourable Congressman, You're not above the law. [[Defiance and interruptions in Jobbik's benches. Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Neither do you!]] It's my duty to answer, but let me ask you some questions. I posted it. You didn't answer them. [[Deterioration in the benches of MSZP and Jobbik. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Sitting upside down on the horse. The president's ringing the bell.]] As far as MKB is concerned, this is indeed a success story. A loss of HUF 400 billion, a foreign-owned bank, a non-functioning bank [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's why you don't have to pay $5 million a month.]] and went through a transformation that made it profitable, brought twice as much into the state register as the purchase price. It's a success story, Congressman. Thank you very much. [[Noise in opposition benches. Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: This is a sick man. Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-06-138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Apáti, the representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "You may not believe this any more." Congressman István Apáti has the floor, please.
u2017-06-06-139	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, There are instruments for combating corruption, accountability and justice in criminal law, civil law and tax law, tax policy. My questions relate to the latter. You may not believe that the current rules of the tax amnesty serve the public or the interests of the budget to the slightest extent. According to the current rules, persons who transfer their money or income from a foreign bank account collected until 30 June last year, even from corruption, to a bank account held by a bank designated by the NAV until 30 June this year, have complied with all their tax obligations by paying 10% of their personal income tax and the authorities are no longer entitled to claim the origin and source of these income. This whole regulation stinks far away, and you feel like it was created for your own good, which is why the following questions arise. Mr. Prime Minister, Are you involved in this regulation? Do you, any member of your government, their parliamentary representatives, relatives and close relatives, have any movable or immovable property, such as a bank account, that you have been displaced or parked abroad? Have bank account operations been executed or planned for the next three weeks? Yes or no? It's a simple question. Secondly, do you not think that, in order to ensure fair and proportionate public burdens, this regulation needs to be completely changed and that the owners of such income should not be put in an unbelievably favourable position by a reduced tax but should be subject to a high rate of tax? I look forward to your meaningful reply, free of misconception. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-06-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is to the Prime Minister. Please, Prime Minister.
u2017-06-06-141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All I'd like to say to you is, if I reach back well in my memory, is this maybe a five-year construction? You accepted it. [[Dr. István Apáti: That was before!]] He was here in front of this House, and I don't know how many times we've discussed it. Each year, when we adopt tax legislation, we usually talk about these. I do not know the details of this, perhaps, to the extent that you do, I can only say that when these rules are established by Parliament, then there are professional discussions, the Bank Alliance is involved, the committee is discussing it, here you are openly discussing it, after you have discussed it, then you will accept it. After that, I find it absurd to take account of this law. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. László Kács: Only if you do not come in on your own initiative. Unless it was written by the Dunai Móni. A voice from the benches of MSZP: or Vejkey!]]
u2017-06-06-142	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman István Apáti, please.
u2017-06-06-143	Mr. Prime Minister, And I find it absurd that the Prime Minister in office of this country is not aware of the tax rules. What you said was a rule from a few years ago, transferred back to the Stability Savings Account. I described the rules in force in the previous years. But it seems that you have bypassed your meaningful response, and from now on, it remains suspicious that you are in your circle, you may be involved, you may benefit from this regulation. And it is absolutely shocking that, at three steps - at the moment, the rule that I said before - caused practically a situation where the owners of black and grey money tax at a reduced rate, while the average Hungarian taxpayer directly pays 35 percent of the taxes into the budget, buys products and services for world record VAT and excise tax, and then becomes the bird, the sucker who will pay decent taxes. This is something that we should basically think about. On the other hand, Prime Minister practically agreed that everything was okay, that everything could be washed clean, and then the stakeholders and stakeholders [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'm going to Level Malibu to quote a classic. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-06-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2017-06-06-145	Thank you very much. Mr President, In Hungary, there are clear rules for Members and Members of the Government: wealth returns must be the same as reality; in wealth statements, if you cannot find such accounts, you can be sure that they are not. As far as the exact place of law is concerned, I would like to remind you of that. [[Continued noise in opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] that all tax laws are adopted by the Hungarian Parliament. The fact that you are now waking up, and after a year or two, this is a question of whether after a year or after five years you have woken up - whichever is a good achievement - and here you bring up this issue as if it were something new in Hungarian economic life is surprising. It should have been said in the Economic Committee and in plenary a year ago that means that you accepted, discussed, discussed and discussed it. [[Rushing in the benches of Jobbik: No, no! Agnes Kunhalmi: Here's the report! They told me!]] Once again, I would like to say that tax legislation is regulated in Hungary by law. The government cannot form tax law. If you've missed something, blame yourself and not the government. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-06-146	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Hollik, representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. Risk analysis of the new name of corruption at Jobbik? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Károly Kontra as Secretary of State for his reply in response to an urgent public task. [[István Hollik nods. Dr. László Kács: I wouldn't be in the Kontra right now!]] The Member points out that he accepts Mr Károly Kontra as a replyer. Congressman István Hollik has the floor, please. [[A voice from the benches of MSZP: Hard, István!]]
u2017-06-06-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Six months ago, David Janiczak, the mayor of Ozd's betterman, undressed in his office. Weird action could have been suspected even though it was supposed to be some kind of clever answer. Let's just say if sending a half-naked photo around Jobbik is the smart answer to anything, Jobbik is in a lot of trouble, but that should be their problem. Since then, it's been revealed that a recording triggered all of this. There's a lot to hear on this recording. For example, a proposal to bribe a journalist, a bit of Gypsyism, and what may be even more serious is the negotiation of a corruption-suspecting case. What's this case about? Two companies have applied for the development of Ozd's drinking water supply. One applicant submitted a more expensive tender of HUF 40 million, the other one was cheaper by HUF 40 million. Dávid Janiczak wanted the more expensive offer company to win. [[14.10]] So the company that submitted the more expensive tender won, and the Ózdians lost 40 million forints, so Fidesz-KDNP filed a complaint with the Central Investigator's Attorney General. When they confronted the mayor with all this, he said it wasn't corruption, it was risk analysis. So if a better-looking mayor wants to see a particular company as the winner of the tender, and then his notary on the recording said to calm down, he's got his people on the cheaper offer company to find something in his past that can get him out of the tender, not corruption, but risk analysis. Mr. Secretary, if the mayor wants to influence an application and therefore instruct his notary, would that really be just a risk analysis? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-06-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Károly Kontra will answer the question expressed by the Member. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-06-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to reassure the Member that in Hungary today there is every chance that the authorities will answer this question, because the government is committed to fighting corruption and has declared zero tolerance against corruption. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] In 2011, he established the National Defence Service, which unfortunately was not voted by our better colleagues, and has not been supported since then, and the Hungarian authorities are doing everything they can to combat corruption. Honourable Congressman, With regard to the matter you have asked me about, in view of Parliament's custom, I would like to say the following for information. I can now report that the Criminal Code is 290. A report has been received from the Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County Attorney General's Office on the offence of accepting official bribery in breach of paragraph 1 of Section 1. In such matters, the Law on Criminal Procedure, Be. 29. Under paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, only the prosecutor's office may conduct investigations, so the proceedings are pending at the prosecution's office. The Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County Attorney General's Office has ordered an additional report in the case, based on the data obtained, the decision is made whether the suspicion of the crime is to stop. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] A report has been received from the Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County Attorney General. In such matters, the Law on Criminal Procedure, Be. 29. Under paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, only the prosecutor's office may conduct investigations, so the proceedings are pending at the prosecution's office. The Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County Attorney General's Office has ordered an additional report in the case, based on the data obtained, the decision is made whether the suspicion of the crime is to stop. (Applause in the pro-government benches. )
u2017-06-06-150	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman István Hollik. Here you go.
u2017-06-06-151	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, for your answer. I think that if a mayor influences the outcome of a proposal and calls it risk analysis, then we are faced with a new innovative version of risk analysis that might be worthy of all risk analysts of all credit rating agencies enrolling for further training in Kágébéla and Janiczak Dávid. But I think that the right-wing corruption case called risk analysis completely discredits Jobbik's comments on corruption, especially by the fact that you want to say no to the amendment of the law to prevent covert party funding last week. That is what they said, so, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President Gábor Vona, we are asking you not to include any more risk analysts in your ranks, because you are no longer aware of corruption cases. Thank you very much. [[An uproar from the opposition side. Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-06-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a one-minute rejoinder, Secretary of State Károly Kontra has the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-06-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, it would make the situation of justice easier if the person concerned spoke and confessed the truth, or it would be important if Jobbik spoke, because just now, with two immediate questions, Mr Apáti stood up very much. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] in the fight against corruption, but when their party, perhaps one of their members, may be involved, why do they not speak? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to come clean on this issue, tell me what you know about this matter, tell me [[Interviews from Jobbik: How to Speak? Give me the time.]] What you think of this and distance yourselves from this case, in this case. [[Interviews from Jobbik: He held a press conference! What do you know about Flórian Farkas? Patron saint of firefighters, Floran! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] If you do this, fellow Members, you will indeed contribute to the fight against corruption. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-06-154	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, why is he good in the pit? It's an address. Congressman Ákos Hadházy has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-06-06-155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, Right from the start, I'll ask you if you talk to your father, if you talk to your brothers about financial matters, whether my father, how he's going to do business, how are the mines, how much is the revenue. Do you ever say that you shouldn't push these public investments too far? If you don't, I'll help you because a journalist looked at the revenues of these companies, and practically HUF 1.9 billion in 2010 and 5.2 billion in 2015 came in from mines and transportation. The dividend was 3.9 billion between 2010 and 2015, of which HUF 2.2 billion was received in 2015. This is as much money as a normal person makes in a thousand years, so from St. Stephen until now, if someone had worked, that's what they would have made in this pit. Do you ever talk about my father, so they'll be mad at me for what to say to them? I can imagine him saying, son, that I was a supplier, that I didn't do business with the state, and that the people I delivered it to got that investment or that order in open public procurement. If you want, I'll tell you that's not a good argument, because it's very easy to play open public procurement. For example, your esteemed son-in-law played it by writing references to which only he was qualified. Anyone could have gone to Hodmezővásárhely, but then it was written in all the other cities that only his company could have started. I've been thinking a lot about how you dare to do these things, how dare you actually allow this series of historical frauds, how dare you say that Flórián Farkas will stay here while taking 1.6 billion forints somewhere under his leadership. I think he dares because he looked at János Kádár [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And he's been pulling it for a very long time, but that's where there's gonna be differences. Thank you very much. So the question is, did you talk to your father about it?
u2017-06-06-156	Thank you very much. I will give the floor to the Prime Minister for the answer. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2017-06-06-157	First of all, thank you for your interest in our family discussions, but I would like to point out that Parliament does not belong to any of our fellow Members to have a family conversation. Take that into account, be kind. What he said beyond that, I tried to hear with understanding how these things work out: Flórian Farkas, mines, relatives, families, public procurement, delivery. I can tell you what I have already said to you on similar questions: Hungary has a government that does not deal with business and does not deal with economic activity. [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP. Agnes Kunhalmi: That's all he cares about!]] Hungary has a government and a prime minister who deals exclusively with public life and political issues. If you're interested in business matters, you're asking the wrong question if you're addressing them to members of the government. If you have anything to ask, please contact the parties concerned, in any personal connection with any member of the Government or any member of the Government. So here's my point. We will still not participate in such debates. Your claims are no less than criminal charges. If you are aware of any crime, let anyone, including me, make a report, make a statement, initiate proceedings, so that if necessary, the enforcement authorities can do their job. That's all I can do for you. And as for our family affairs, I have to say, once again, that everything that is in my wealth statement is what I take responsibility for, I have taken responsibility for and I will take responsibility for in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-06-158	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. One-minute rejoinder from Congressman Ákos Hadházy. Here you go.
u2017-06-06-159	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, I think you're wrong about that. If a Prime Minister's family becomes a billionaire - and you don't have to look for secret accounts here, because it has been said here several times that there are secret accounts somewhere - and it becomes a billionaire by making state investments, it does belong to Hungarian people. You are very wrong if you think that Hungarian people are not interested, you look at the polls and say that you are not interested in Hungarian people. This is a huge mistake. [[14.20]] You are a huge - I could say that it's a fucking big - lie that you don't have to deal with the facts, you don't have to deal with how much you stole, because others don't care about it, and they tell the Hungarian people that you don't care about it, because if the opposition comes, then the one and a half million refugees will come. It's the only lie you've come up with, which makes you feel very calm about these billions. This will not be everlasting security, the Hungarian people are no more despicable than any other people, and they will not allow it. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-06-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. One-minute rejoinder, Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2017-06-06-161	Thank you for your interest. I would like to repeat what I could say in answer to the first question. We've been here a few Members of Parliament since 1990. We spent almost 12 years in government and 16 years in opposition. We haven't had to deal with such lightweight lads in 16 years. For example, personally - I just don't like to bring my personal affairs here, because I think it is unworthy of Parliament - I am the only one in this House against whom, when the election was lost in 2002, a full-scale financial investigation was ordered. For a year and a half, I went to the committee of inquiry set up by the governing party that won the election at that time, where I had to present even the last bill I had ever spent in the previous years. Unlike you, I've been through all this, and I've heard it all. We've all been through this, and yet here we are. And we are here because I am convinced that we have the right answer to every legal argument, everything we have done is in line with the principles that we have. In Hungary, the government has to deal exclusively with the country's affairs, and decisions must be taken to ensure that voters have good reason to honor the governing party with their trust after four years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-162	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Member László Salacz, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: what does it mean to suspend Béla Kovács' immunity? It's an address. Minister Pál Völner has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2017-06-06-163	I'll take it.
u2017-06-06-164	He'll take it. Thank you very much. Accordingly, Mr László Salacz has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-06-06-165	Dear Secretary of State, Members of the European Parliament voted by overwhelming majority on 1 June 2017 to suspend the immunity of Béla Kovács, the better Member of the European Parliament, on another matter. I understand that the suspension of the immunity of Béla Kovács was proposed by Attorney General Péter Polt in September last year, after the signal from the EU Anti-Fraud Office, OLAF, revealed that the betterman may have committed budgetary fraud and private document fraud. The politician is suspected to have concluded an internship contract in 2012-13 with four private subjects. On this basis, these persons have completed four and six months of traineeships in Brussels, but they have never actually been there and have not done any work. The situation is aggravated by the fact that the better-looking MEP did not appear on two occasions at hearings where he could have clarified the accusations raised against him. In addition, Béla Kovács has been suspended for the second time in Brussels. Last reported by the Constitutional Protection Office in April 2014, after the politician was in the interest of the secret service in an ongoing investigation into former KGB cases, because he was in a conspirative relationship with Russian diplomats. It seems that Jobbik is full of corruption cases, and it seems that OLAF has already noticed this. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State what procedure would be followed by the suspension of the immunity of an MEP, Béla Kovács. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I have already said, will be given by State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-06-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As Mr President mentioned, on 1 June 2017, the plenary session of the European Parliament adopted a decision suspending the immunity of Béla Kovács. According to the decision, the European Parliament decided, on the one hand, to suspend Béla Kovács' immunity and, on the other hand, to instruct its President to immediately forward the decision and the report of the committee responsible to the competent Hungarian authorities and Béla Kovács. So criminal proceedings against him can be initiated, forced action can be taken, interrogated, and investigative actions can be carried out. Although Béla Kovács, through his legal representative, did indeed request that legal immunity be withdrawn by the Commission and the plenary session without affecting the work of his representatives, but because he was not cooperative, he did not appear again, so he could not receive this discount. This request was lodged by the Attorney General on 19 September 2016. As you have mentioned, Mr Béla Kovács has committed budgetary fraud and private document counterfeiting, the essence of which is that he has employed people on a fictitious basis who were not in Brussels during the four and six months period. In fact, Jobbik had already attempted to implement the European Wages Union, but the law enforcement authorities did not support it in this form, and the European Parliament's authorities also challenged it, which is why immunity was suspended in the criminal case. The previous questions also show that Jobbik is full of corruption cases, and this has already been noticed by the EU Anti-Fraud Office. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-168	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Salacz. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-06-06-169	Dear Secretary of State, I am relieved to hear that a mature procedural mechanism in such an international and domestic case helps to clarify the matter. As a Member of Parliament, it is particularly important for me that the person representing Hungary in the European Union is legally and morally sound. I trust that the matter will be cleared as soon as possible and that the person responsible or those responsible will be brought to light. Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is the subject of Secretary of State Pál Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-06-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, as Mr President has said, criminal proceedings can be launched, and hopefully we will be able to clarify the individuals, the group of perpetrators. After all, it is also a skandalum that corruption appears at European level in the case of Jobbik in the case of a Member of the European Parliament, a party who had not previously been a member of the European Parliament, and they are practically committing these crimes at the time of entry. [[In the notary seat Dr. István Tiba will be replaced by József Attila Móring.]] And if you think about the action of the national security service, you can see that this corruption does not stop on its own, but it also has international threads. And the strangest thing about it is that Jobbik was not separated from this representative, either then or ever since. It also shows that there is an identity of intent and unity between them. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Members of the MSZP, Tamás Harangozó and László Szakács, wish to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Who was the contact of the Voldemort crime association in your ministry? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2017-06-06-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, you must answer in person because you are personally involved in this matter. Thank you.
u2017-06-06-174	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Member and the House that the Minister will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gábor Bellozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Everything for you, nothing for the workers?" It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or waits for the Prime Minister's presence to be answered.
u2017-06-06-175	Mr President, I wanted the Prime Minister to do me the honor of staying here, but after he's gone, the matter is important, and I accept the answer of the Deputy Prime Minister.
u2017-06-06-176	Thank you very much. Congressman Gábor Bellozó has the floor. Here you go, Congressman. [[14.30]]
u2017-06-06-177	Thank you, Mr. President. Deputy Prime Minister! The government promised the rescue workers a 60 percent wage increase, but instead of a real wage increase, they just caught up their gross wages to the guaranteed minimum wage. Thus, their net wages remained the same, which is an average of 119 thousand forints. [[Lajos Korózs: Shame!]] Because of the shockingly low salaries, they went out on the street in despair. In Hungary, people who we expect to save the lives of our loved ones in case of trouble are literally crippled. Deputy Prime Minister! It's a shame! And it is particularly a shame when Prime Minister took a dividend of HUF 1200 billion from his family's mining companies only this year, or a friend of his who, according to many, was the administrator of Prime Minister's wealth, he was estimated to have increased his assets by HUF 100,000 in one year. In the last few months, I've seen it possible to replace the cars of the state leaders. As I've seen, Prime Minister's car has a new license plate. Deputy Prime Minister! The essence of your governance is that the Fidesz elite has everything, and the employees have only as much as they absolutely have to. And if they complain, the protesting voices will be repressed violently. Last time, the leaders of the Hungarian Rescue Workers' Association were disciplined, accountable and threatened because they dared to comment on the problems in the emergency services. They were promised that the loud ones would be hunted down one by one. A few weeks ago, the head of the electricity trade union was fired in the middle of wage negotiations, which, of course, you didn't have a word for. Deputy Prime Minister! Are they willing to deal effectively with the legitimate demands of rescue workers, to receive the promised wage increase, or to remain a stigma, a threat, as they do to advocates, journalists, or even researchers of the MTA, if they dare to raise their voices against what they do not like? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-06-06-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén. Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister.
u2017-06-06-179	Thank you very much for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, In any case, and above all, I would like to point out that the government appreciates the work of paramedics, obviously the work of paramedics is of crucial importance to Hungarian society. So it can only be about their work with respect and appreciation. The government provides a 67 percent wage increase in three years. Between 2010 and 2018 we provide HUF 17 billion for this purpose. Their wages will increase this year in November, next January and next November. And I'll just add in parentheses that during the MSZP government, it decreased by 5 percent, it grows by 75 percent during our government. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-06-180	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Gábor Bellozó. Here you go.
u2017-06-06-181	Thank you, Mr. President. Deputy Prime Minister! I'm not disappointed. They continue to do what is now the most important aspect of your governance: they lie, threaten, brand you, intimidate you. The rescue workers did not receive a wage increase, only now they do not complement their wages to the guaranteed minimum wage, but they caught up with their gross wages, the net remains the same. The union leaders were already disciplined against one, and a letter was written to the other as to how he dared to make a statement, and they promised each of them, which was there at the protest, that they would be hunted down one by one. That's what they're doing to everyone, as we've listened to in Parliament, if we criticize you, that we're Soros agents, that we're here to install terrorists. But, you know, Deputy Prime Minister, just at the end of the week, the report of the Venice Commission was published, in which it was telling the truth in each of the points against their civil rights law to those who made criticisms, to which you said it was the rhetoric of the Soros rentals. So now the Venice Commission is a Soros hirer and everyone who criticizes you, Soros hirer? You can't accept what you're doing. Shame on you!
u2017-06-06-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Deputy Prime Minister.
u2017-06-06-183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think it's more important for paramedics' wages than for me to get into this rhetorical thing, how is Soros and how are the Soros-supported organizations? By the way, in the opinion of the Venice Commission, it is not at all what you have said. The fact is that the Hungarian government and the State Secretary for Health are in negotiations with the largest paramedic union. Consequently, we are in a permanent trial with legitimate representatives of the paramedics. Of course, if there were any threats or attempts to intimidate anyone, if anything like that were to happen, press charges, it is obviously unacceptable. But until you have proof of that and no action has been taken, it's just an empty rhetoric. We're in negotiations with the largest union, and the wage increase is insured. So I think if someone did something for the paramedics, this government did. Otherwise, we are open to further negotiations. For the record, there is only one party in the past period that would do well not to press this question: your government and your party, during which these people's benefits were reduced by 5 percent. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-06-184	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, It's 2:35 p.m., and we're done with Question Time. We now have the political debate on the measures needed to establish a fair and equitable pension system, initiated by Mr Bertalan Tóth, Head of Group and fellow Members. Opinion on the initiative of the political debate V/15693. It was available to all of them and received it. Dear Parliament, I now ask Mr István Ikotity to explain the course of the political debate.
u2017-06-06-185	Dear Parliament, Allow me to explain the course of the debate. First, a statement from the representative of the Government will be made for a total period of 40 minutes. The speakers of each political group will then speak in 15-15 minutes. Then the first independent Member may speak. Further speeches are then possible within the remaining timeframe. Finally, the representative of the Government will respond in 20 minutes to what has been said in the debate.
u2017-06-06-186	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Allow me to remind you of the main rules of the time-frame debate. The speaking time of the member of the Government who spoke during the debate is expected to be in the time of the pro-government factions. In the meantime, two-minute speeches, with the exception of responding to personal concerns, should be included in the timeframe. Point of order speeches are not included in the time frame. On the meeting room information board, interested parties can monitor the use of time frames. Before we begin the debate, I would like to ask Mr Attila Móring to explain the time frame. Here you go, notary.
u2017-06-06-187	Dear Parliament, I would like to remind you that the MSZP and the KDNP Group have initiated a doubling of the timeframe, so the distribution of the timeframe is as follows: 82 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 76 minutes for the KDNP Group, 90 minutes for the MSZP Group, 41 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 24 minutes for the LMP Group and 10 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2017-06-06-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, As I mentioned earlier, the government's debate launcher will take place in a 40-minute time frame. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-06-189	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The opposition parties seem to notice the approaching date of the election, which is why a debate day on pensions has been proposed here in Parliament. If they wanted a comprehensive picture, they would obviously have proposed a debate on the elderly in general. At the same time, we have seen it well in the past seven years, as well as in the previous years of the Hungarian Socialist Party, that they do not really want to help pensioners, but only to use them for election purposes. When it comes to election promises, when they are in opposition, whenever they need to talk, they promise a very sound, very juicy, comprehensive positive picture for pensioners for the future. However, when it was governed in Hungary, it could have been the Horn government, it could have been the Gyurcsány period, in any case only the pensioners were the victims of it. So, in opposition time, before the election, after the big promise, and after the election, the black soup comes, when the socialists do the opposite of everything they promised before. [[14.40]] On the other hand, we tried to guarantee a predictable and safe future for pensioners after 2010. I would not only talk about pensions here, but also about the period of the age of 55, the period of the protected age and the subsequent period not only about pension benefits, but also about all other health and livelihood benefits that we have tried to make every pensioner feel safe in Hungary as much as possible. A man who has worked a lifetime deserves the safety of old age. In addition, a good part of those who are retired today not only worked through it, but also fought through many years or decades, as many of them had to experience the difficulties of the communist regime, whether they were born during the war, or they had to make an increased effort to survive a little in the country after the '56 revolution. That is why the government values older people, and therefore respects them, not only on the occasion of debates, but in every decision it has made, it has tried to guarantee respect for the elderly, both morally and financially, here in Hungary, for calm, healthy and as many healthy years as possible. That is why we believe that there is a fair and just pension system in Hungary today, which guarantees long-term security for pensioners, not only in the short term, not only through credit, but also in the long term, based on the performance of the economy and the security of the closed pension fund. It guarantees stability, because one cannot take benefits from the moment to the next. The pension system can be calculated, since everyone can calculate well in advance. Despite the fact that European countries have struggled with the symptoms of the crisis for many years even in the years after 2010, the government has undertaken to maintain the purchasing value of pensions on the basis of an agreement with pensioners' organisations. This seemed to be an ambitious and courageous recommendation in 2010, as pensions were reduced in many countries of Europe, so the previous socialist government in Hungary too. So the stability, the guarantee of value-proofing, was an important alliance between the then governing Fidesz-KDNP and pensioners' organisations. After seven years, I'm happy to tell you that the government has kept this commitment. Each year he raised pensions, and even if I add them up, he increased both the elderly pensions and the other benefits linked to it by 23.1 percent to 2.7 million people overall. If I deduct the amount of money loss from this 23.1 percent, I get a 9.5 percent increase in purchasing value. In Hungarian, pensions are worth about one-tenth more in the last seven years, and older people can buy more than one-tenth of the pension they receive. We have done this by maintaining the balance of the pension fund, which the socialists have even acknowledged - they have not really managed to maintain under their governance. I can tell you that the government has kept and kept the promise to pensioners, has protected and will continue to protect the purchasing value of pensions. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Don't threaten me!]] continue to increase the level of inflation in pensions. Not all Hungarian governments have succeeded. We did so by including it in the Fundamental Law, so we were able to introduce a discount for women, so we were able to introduce a discount of 40. [[Intruder from the benches of the MSZP: You lied anyway! Nándor Gúr: Time of service, period of entitlement!]] In the Hungarian pension system based on the principle of insurance, it affects the level of care [[Noise from the benches of MSZP. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] how long and on the basis of what amount of earnings a person has paid a pension contribution, how he has contributed to the maintenance of the pension system. This principle is a guarantee that the pension will continue to grow, and pensioners will continue to be on a secure basis. Thus, in 2017 the average pension amount increased to HUF 112 305. We can also say that retirement is becoming less and less a risk of poverty in Hungary, as in the last six years, the level of relative income poverty among pensioners has decreased by one third and is much smaller than in the European Union. The risk of poverty for 13,8 percent of the European Union's retirement is much smaller in Hungary, 4.5 percent. Retirement is much more secure here. Of course, it wasn't always like that. If you look at the income payback for a person when he retires, then there were very dark numbers. During the socialist period, the so-called substitution rate, in Hungarian, the amount of pension received after income, was 54 percent. Barely half of their income was pensioned to those who retired from active employment. Today, this has increased from nearly 70 percent, 67 percent, from 54 percent to 67 percent, and now more than two thirds of the pensioner has been paid for as an active employee a few years ago. This also means the safety of old age. Here I would like to add a discount compared to this, which I have already mentioned, to the 40s of women. By the end of April 2017, 194,466 women made use of this discount, nearly 200,000 supported the government's action with their own choice. We also needed their recognition and support, as we did not receive any votes from the socialist benches, the right-wing or the LMP benches. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You put it in salad, that's why!]] I'll come back to that later. It is important not only to increase revenue for older years, but also to reduce expenditure. This is why it was important that the average pension spending basket, which means what percentage of income a pensioner spends on, was reduced from 20 per cent to 17.3 per cent. If we add up how much pensioners could save, how much they could save by reducing the rent, then we can say that it is nearly 100,000 forints that pensioners could save on average per household by not having to pay the luxury profit of Western service companies, as the government decided to support pensioners and Hungarian families. He didn't make laws that the Horn government or the Medgyessy government or the Gyurcsány government or the Bajnai government did to guarantee foreign-owned utility companies that they could put in their pockets a luxury profit and take these money out of the country. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: You stole the private pension money!]] Let us not forget that when the Socialists took a month's pension from all Hungarian pensioners, they left intact the legal places that required 8 percent guaranteed profits for foreign-owned utility companies. When they told all Hungarian pensioners, 2.7 million people who lived on pensions or pension-like benefits to pull the belt in with one, because the economy is having a very difficult time, they did not tell these companies that their guaranteed 8 percent luxury profit would not be taken out of the country that year, but maintained the system that left it in the pockets of the companies. This money is now in the pockets of households, the pockets of Hungarian families and Hungarian pensioners, while these utility companies were able to continue to operate. If you look out on your own account statement, how much you saved in the last few years, let's say, a gas bill, and think about how these companies were able to operate in a profitable way, and before that, this luxury profit was put in your pocket, you can see exactly how much these companies had unwarrantedly put in their pockets, and what are the risks of having a government with socialist leadership or other instructions in Brussels again. Then, with the abolition of these, the amount to be paid to pensioners is at the rate of 100,000. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What about the one who's heating with wood? What's that supposed to do?]] We considered it an important goal for pensioners to have the lowest possible VAT content of the most basic food, which is more pronounced in the consumer basket. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Half-swine split!]] Therefore, we have reduced the VAT on basic foods in several steps: pig VAT, poultry VAT, milk VAT, egg VAT, and continue to reduce the VAT on the fish in the following year. Thus, the government is burdening as little as possible the food that pensioners and elderly people consume to the greatest extent possible. This also means saving tens of thousands of forints. And this is not a VAT reduction that the socialists were in fashion to advertise VAT reductions before the elections, advertise VAT reductions on billboards, and then, after the elections have been won, raise the VAT again, whether double or multiple, the VAT content of the products that older people most buy. Allow me to include myself in the area of health, as it is an extremely important area for the elderly, for what reasons. We can remember that the Socialists wanted to keep the elderly and pensioners away from the health care system, and they wanted them to be treated only if it was a very big problem, because hospital allowances and a visitation fee were introduced at the general doctor, precisely so that pensioners would not go to the general doctor or the specialist, they would not spend much time in the hospital, but would try to keep them away from the visit fee. Clearly, it can be seen with common sense that, if they recognize the problem later, it will cause much greater difficulties for the person, result in a much more prolonged or more serious disease, and, overall, it can be very easy for the social security fund, with much higher treatment costs. [[14.50]] What the socialists did was keep pensioners and the elderly away from the health system with a visitation fee and a daily allowance, and we tried to move forward both in the pharmaceutical support system and elsewhere. 60 billion forints was what the socialists took from the drug register. When it was taken over, it was 367 billion; when it was passed on, it was HUF 298 billion - that was the 60 billion forints that evaporated within the Hungarian health fund during the socialist period. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] However, we have introduced a new system, which has the advantage of many pensioners, the system of blind betting, which may have been a savings of HUF 7.5 billion in the first year, especially for patients, but in subsequent years it has been a savings of more than HUF 10 billion for patients and for the budget. There are 80 medicines with a fee of more than 50 per cent. 80 medicines are bought by pensioners, the elderly, the price of which is now less than half as much as it was in 2010. Allow me to report the greatest reductions here. For cholesterol-lowering medicinal products, the maximum reduction is from HUF 1076 to HUF 84, but there was a decrease from HUF 863 to HUF 84 in similar cholesterol-lowering medicinal products. We can also report a decrease of 1156 forints to 322 forints, but there were not only such higher, over 70 percent, but also 51 percent price falls. The point of the blank is that there the active substance content goes the bidding, and the bid goes down, not up. So it's not the name of the medicines or not the name of the medicines that counts, it's the active substance that the doctor prescribes, which is why the drug prices could fall to such a great extent. There were also reductions of 61 and 88 percent in gastric acid suppressants; antidepressants also had a 50-72 percent decrease in prices, which was also largely benefitted by Hungarian pensioners. In 2015 we provided a surplus of HUF 3 billion for medical aid, HUF 3.3 billion in 2016 and HUF 4.8 billion for this year. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] so that these aids are also available to older people as well as to medicines at reduced prices. Home assistance, home care. We can remember the famous sentence of Lajos Korózs, who said that the elderly should be cared for by friends and neighbors. On the other hand... [[Lajos Korózs: I did not say that! That's not true.]] I can quote you literally, Congressman... [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true! The president's ringing the bell.]] Since you yelled at me, I'll look it up. It may not be at this moment, but sooner or later I will find it and confront you with your earlier words: "The government would trust the neighbours and friends to care for a large part of the elderly," said Lajos Korózs, literally when - if you have already brought it up, Congressman, I will tell you why - you have reduced the norm for residential institutions by HUF 30 thousand during your own governance; there was a decrease of HUF 100 thousand in the high-level institutions where the supply was higher. [[There are constant interruptions from the benches of the MSZP.]] Then you said you should leave care to your neighbors and friends. Maybe it wasn't worth yelling at you, Congressman. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell. Lajos Korózs: They're lying! The people who wrote it down lie too!]] But if I return to the home care area, in 2010 there were 75,054 people in Hungary who received home care. [[Dr. László Varga: What you say is a lie!]] 75,054! By 2016, they rose to 107 294, and we provide 40 percent more elderly people than before. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: After 2018...]] But this can't go on if the number of employees doesn't increase. Our aim is to ensure better quality of service, not only for more people, but also for better quality. Therefore, the number of people employed here has increased even more. In 2010 it was 5764, by 2016, it grew to 13 399 in Hungarian: we doubled the number of people providing home assistance. We pay twice as many people to care for elderly people, people in need. We introduced the Erzsébet programme as a new element, which also provides 42,000 pensioners with an opportunity to relax in 2017-2018. In recent years, we have provided 210,000 pensioners for pre- and after-season holidays, or for bathing tickets, which no other government has been able to offer them since the change of regime. Let us do this by asking for the opinion of the Elderly Council before making any important decision. [[Nándor Gúr: What Elderly Advice? Where are the leaders of pensioners' organizations?]] Even at the end of last year, when an extra HUF 10 000 allowance, Elisabeth's pensioner was given a voucher in addition to the rate of pension increase, which you consider to be a disgrace, honourable Members, but you were only able to take away a month's pension. Plus 10,000 forints of Erzsébet's voucher or anything else they couldn't give us. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Cashed in CBA!]] Well, before that, a number of consultations were held with the Elderly Council. [[Nándor Gúr: Elderly Council...]] But not only in the Elderly Council, the government asks the opinion of pensioners and the elderly, but also the Thematic Working Group on the Rights of the Elderly Rights of the Human Rights Task Force and the Forum for the Cooperation of the Elderly Councils of the Municipality is an important consultative body of the Government in the field of the elderly. It is important that we award the award to the local authorities that do the most for the elderly, the most for the pensioners. An important tender was the Contemporary application, which helped to achieve active ageing, active ageing and the cooperation of generations; the applications for self-image, for which 4 thousand retired applicants submitted their works. Three of these anthologies came together. Important cultural meetings have taken place in the last few years, either in artistic, cultural or other fields. I mention these because we do not regard the elderly as simply a pension issue. We want active and healthy ageing for everyone, providing health care [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] and an opportunity to really be active and active in the era when they are no longer working. But like I said, an important part of the elderly is the special attention to people over 55. That is why we have introduced an action plan for the protection of jobs that is also rare. It protects so-called protected workers over 55 years of age, on the one hand, in order to avoid being on the street, not being unemployed, and on the other hand, the indirect consequence of this is that they will receive a higher pension, because if they are able to work not as unemployed or in a lower position, but as an original job, or as a step forward, the amount of their pension will also be higher. We can also help increase pensions. How much this was necessary, how good it would have been if one of the governments had done this before, is proof that such employment support is being used after seven out of ten people who are facing pensions. Seven out of ten pensioners are facing a pension due to the fact that their current job, current income, will then be used for the job protection action plan. In 2013, 247 thousand people were responsible for preserving this job; 299 thousand in 2014, 318 thousand in 2015 and 340 thousand in 2016. [[Nándor Gúr keeps interrupting.]] If I add up in four years the amounts that the government spent on supporting the employment of people over 55 years of age, a 50 percent employer tax allowance, the total amount of HUF 183 billion, that is how we helped the employment of those over 55 years of age and to ensure that they had a more secure pension. In 2010, when the socialists handed over the possibility of governance - not voluntarily, but at the rather loud request of the electorate - we could find a rather weakened pension system. In 2010, the Bajnai government handed over its pension fund with a deficit of HUF 357 billion, while constantly making cuts. Socialists are making cuts, and this government, and Fidesz-KDNP, give respect to pensioners. Today, both the opposition and the government can account for what they have done, what they do for pensioners, and pensioners have a basis for comparison. You may question the deficit of HUF 357 billion, but even their own minister Erika Szűcs estimated the deficit that was missing from the pension fund, and despite the debt of the country, despite the restrictions, they could not cover it. The amount lost by the Pension Fund in the private pension funds, which accumulated as a public debt, represented 12,7 percent of GDP, and the socialists just opened their hands on what would happen. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: You stole it!]] And during this period, there was an order from Brussels to take a month's pension from pensioners. And then the declaration war came, but what Brussels asked for was done immediately. What the IMF, the European Union, requested from the Socialist Party and the then SDS, was immediately implemented without criticism. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: It's 2017 in case you haven't noticed!]] Now they are being ironic and they are trying to ridicule the government's national consultation in which we want to stop exactly the same ideas Brussels has had. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: It would be nice to have spent that money on pensioners as well.]] You didn't want to stop Brussels, you don't want to stop Brussels now. Even then, they said that certain things have to be swallowed, that they have to be accepted. We have also heard today that indeed, Gyula Molnár, your party president, has said that there are some unfavorable things for Hungary, but if you ask for them from Brussels, it must be done. [[15.00]] Thus, a monthly pension was taken from pensioners here in the Hungarian Parliament on 11 May 2009. They're sitting here right now, sitting here, all voting to take a month's pension. He took: Gergely Bárándy, László Botka, Sándor Burány, Zoltán Gőgös, Nándor Gúr, István Hiller, Lajos Korózs, Zoltán Lukács, Attila Mesterházy, Gyula Molnár, Tibor Szanyi, László Teleki, József Tóbias, István Tukacs, István Ujhelyi, László Varga. Nobody from Fidesz-KDNP. [[Why didn't you give it back?]] This is important, because in the Hungarian political history, too, I think it was a unique occasion - fortunately, it only happened once, although it should not have happened once - that a party had a routine of how to reduce pensions, how to take away part of pensioners' pensions, and then find other reasons, for example, in January 2010 that the 13th month allowance was an extra benefit, it was not a pension, or many similar things were said that the inflation-following pension would be much better than the 13th month pension that was taken then. We have also heard the argument, which, I believe, is worthy of admitting to the unsustainable situation and the huge lack of pension funds at that time, that they had to take a month's pension to pay the 12th and 11th month's pensions. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, The payment of pensions and the increase of pensions were guaranteed not by the taking away of pensions, but by the change of government, as this allowed us to increase the purchase value by 9.5 percent in the period thereafter, i.e. by almost one tenth. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] But if it hadn't been for the change of government in 2010, there would have been further plagues on pensioners, and this would have been the pension tax. For some reason, socialist governments are always obsessed with taxing pensions. At that time, pensions would have been taxed at HUF 16,000 a month. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Where did you read this?]] , if this law is not abolished after 2010 by Fidesz-KDNP. But like I said, they're used to this kind of stuff in the Horn Cabinet. vigour, since Horn's Cabinet is a wage for pensions and pensions [[Zoltán Gőgös: Travel expenses have been abolished over 65 years of age!]] initiated its consolidated taxation. From 1 January 2001, Fidesz-KDNP subsequently abolished this. But once the socialists came back, they went back to tax pensions again, as Ferenc Gyurcsány re-introduced under the MSZP-SZDSZ Cabinet to force the incomes of the pension to be subject to consolidated taxation. Somehow, if you look at the period of Gyula Horn, or if you look at the period of Ferenc Gyurcsány, if Fidesz-KDNP makes more favourable rules for pensioners, somehow the socialists always step back into the old mezzanine, perhaps because they prefer the advice of international analysts, they prefer to go to Brussels for instructions rather than listen to Hungarian people and Hungarian pensioners. Remember, you promised to reduce the VAT on basic foods in 2006, and when you came to government, you doubled these VAT, you all voted for it here in Parliament. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You raised him to 27 percent!]] We, on the other hand, reduced the cost of gas, electricity and district heating by 25 percent, which, as I said, can be saved by pensioners for a hundred thousand forints. [[Zoltán Grimlock: And how much did you reduce the tree?]] And they can turn it into something completely different that they want to do, but not basic consumer goods, of course, if they want to do that, too. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] One of the most striking features of socialist pension policy is the constant contradiction between their government actions and their mantras in the opposition period, it seems that this is no different now; because there is certainly a question of various disability pensions and the like. I could make a lot of quotes about this, so if you bring this up, obviously we'll tell you. [[Dr. László Varga: You can't explain that! Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] I would just refer you back to the words of your own Prime Minister...
u2017-06-06-190	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Each faction will have the opportunity to speak. Please do this when you can. [[Zoltán Gőgös: The Secretary of State is still lying!]] Thank you, Congressman. Secretary of State, please continue. [[Nándor Gúr: Just tell the truth and we won't interrupt.]]
u2017-06-06-191	Thank you very much. If the quote is considered to be a lie from their own politicians, then it is classified as their own fellow politicians. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Talk about the disabled!]] This is what their own prime minister said: "If there is a scandal, then it is that every third pensioner is retired today, and every second of the latter is still active, they can work, or work can make sense of his life. And it could be classified, not only as Prime Minister, but also as Secretary of State. And there may be a question of differentiated pension increases in the debate. I could also confront you with a number of your own quotes, say Ferenc Baja's own speech here in Parliament during the autumn 1998 session, when you initiated a political debate on the evolution of wages and pensions in 1999, i.e. in the second year of the then Orbán government, and the differentiated pension increase. Well, then one of your politicians - but I could quote Alexander the Great, Sándor Szabó, several quotes - says that the differentiated pension increase between the chevisation and tension among the pensioners, and that for us, I mean for the socialists, is unacceptable. So the pension increase, which was not the same percentage, was called tense, cheving, and was considered unacceptable by the socialists. I wonder if today we will hear words from the Hungarian Socialist Party 180 degrees opposite. Jobbik has not yet been given the opportunity to govern, and we hope that this will not have to be faced by the Hungarian electorate, but also in opposition when it was possible, we saw that they did not have the courage to vote in favour of pensioners. Remember that when the introduction of a 40- discount for women was not supported by the bill, neither István Apáti, nor Tibor Bana, nor Dóra Dúró, nor Zsolt Egyed, nor Gergely Farkas, nor Márton Gyöngyösi, nor Csaba Gyüre, nor Loránt Hegedűs, nor Lajos Kepli, nor Gergely Kulcsár, neither Zoltán Magyar, nor Tamás Sneider, nor György Szilágyi, nor Szebestyén Vártó, nor János Volner, nor Dániel Z. Kárpát could do this. However, let me also report on a good news that, in addition to a three-percent pension increase, is indeed a moment in the history of pensions, and on a day of debate, it is worth a lot of talking about. If the country's budget is based on a good economic policy, the future of the country is that if a country is based on growth, the performance of the Hungarian people, sooner or later, the pensioners will also benefit from it. They enjoy it because, on the one hand, their pension will not be compromised, as it was in 2009, when the socialists and free democrats took away a month's pension. On the other hand, as I said, the purchasing value of pensions has increased by nearly one tenth in recent years. But there will also be something that has not been seen in Hungary's history, in the history of budget planning, and can affect Hungarian pensioners more positively than anything else. Since the pension premium has been included in Hungary's draft budget law, there has always been almost always zero forints there. There was no possibility for us to adopt a pension premium in advance in the Finance Act. Now, because the Hungarian economy is on its own feet, it is growing, and we are waiting for economic growth to increase above 3.5 percent, so it is important not only to increase wages to a large extent, but not only to increase the minimum wage to a close double in seven years, and the minimum wage for skilled workers to a similar extent, but also to provide additional benefits for pensioners, as this is now a sustainable basis for economic growth, not for loans, not for loans, and not for bond issues. [[Zoltán Gőgös: Settlement policy!]] For this reason, next year's budget is Hungary's first draft budget, which contains more than HUF 32 billion in pensions. For the first time, we can pay a pension premium to pensioners, the fruits of other people's work, the foundations of which were laid by pensioners when they rebuilt this country for decades after the war, they endured the horrors of the communist period, when, after the change of regime, they rebuilt Hungary's economy after the collapse of the entire plan economy, well, those who are now retired and have been involved in it, perhaps they can enjoy another fruit of this work, a positive fruit when they are receiving a pension premium. We are proud of the work of the Hungarian people. We are proud of the performance of the Hungarian people, and we believe that what has been paid into the budget in the form of taxes is part of the budget law of the following year, as I mentioned, if the growth of the economy and the lack of the budget are also planned, and there is a good chance that all Hungarian pensioners can benefit from this HUF 32 billion, and this will be an additional benefit for them, just as the extra payment outside the system was the HUF 10,000 Erzsébet voucher at the end of last year. Today, we can say that Hungary has a much more stable, much more predictable pension system. Anyone who stands before a pension today can expect to have a pension and a decent living, and those who have been retired for years can see which government only promises and which government actually preserves the value of pensions [[And he steals the 3000 billion!]] and, if possible, raise pensions for pensioners. I trust that everyone in Hungary will see this clearly. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: If you get as much as Lőrinc Mészáros, you are right, Mr. Secretary of State.]] And in that mind, he makes his decisions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his speech. The speeches will now be held by the representatives, the first of which will be held within a 15-15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi, Fidesz Group. [[It's grumpy. Sounds from Jobbik's ranks, including, "Woe! Dr. Bertalan Tóth: We protect pensions!]] [[15.10]]
u2017-06-06-193	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to speak here today in front of Parliament, to debate the situation of pensioners and elderly people; it is possible to talk, to debate pensions. This is also important for us because it is very important for us to have a family, and within the family, besides our love for our parents and grandparents, all our respect and respect for the older generations, the pensioners. We're counting on your knowledge, your experience, your support. As legislators, beyond the privacy now, so here as legislators, we try to do everything we can to ensure that they can spend their retirement years in safety, respect and respect. To that end, we will continue our legislative work here. In this context, it is worth looking back at where we started, and it is worth seeing what happened when you socialist-liberals governed, and it is worth looking back and seeing how much work has been done in this area since 2010 since the Fidesz-KDNP administration. Let me say for the first time that in 2010, among other things, we agreed to maintain the purchasing value of pensions. This was a very serious commitment, because in 2010, as Mr Secretary of State said, we took over the country with the tragic state of his economy and the lack of a pension fund. [[Zoltán Grimlock: There was 3,000 billion in it.]] You are right, my fellow Member, that one in three pensionforints were missing from the pension fund, so that it was mentioned before that you would turn to the World Bank again and ask for help in order to pay pensions at all. In 2010, we managed to balance the pension fund from which we pay for elderly people and pensions from month to month. [[Zoltán Gőgös: Individual pension account.]] This was a very great achievement, because besides the fact that, as I said, every third forint was missing from the pension fund, the situation of the economy was also tragic. So we agreed to maintain the purchasing value of pensions. Not only have we achieved this, but we have managed to increase the purchasing value and purchasing power of pensions by 10 percent. When we talk about the living conditions of pensioners, the situation and the existence of pensioners, we not only have to look at the amount of the monthly pension in itself, but also look at many other factors that have an impact on the quality of life of pensioners. Typically, they are the cost of living, the cost of living, the VAT on food, but these are the various elements of the family support system, or the quoted expenses that arise in the event of health preservation or treatment of a disease. Well, let's see. Let's look at the cost of living. The overhead costs are much higher in the elderly, the consumer basket of pensioners, so it is a sensitive question for them how much money is paid for water, electricity, sewer charges, garbage transport, chimney sweeps, and so on, on a monthly basis. That is why we have made an important commitment, which we have also made, that we need to reduce the costs of the bills, which, of course, help the whole society, but it is a great help, an outstanding help for those pensioners who, as I said, account for a higher percentage of the consumer basket, these payments, these costs. Before 2010, my honourable socialist-liberal fellow Members, it was astonishing how you looked at this policy of public administration. Minister of State said that, at the time, utility companies were typically owned and controlled by foreign companies, mostly multinational companies. These companies were, naturally, only watching them gain as much profit as possible, and they were not interested in how Hungarian citizens, Hungarian people and pensioners could pay their monthly bills here in Hungary. This is understandable in itself, since it is in the sole interest of a multinational company, but it is incomprehensible that a government, which, at least in paper form, has been authorised by its own citizens and represents them - this is what the paper form refers to - is why it is writing a contract or why it is in force a contract that guarantees this extra profit to these multinational companies and does not care that in its country, which it governs, pensioners have to pay more and more every year to service companies. We have said several times, two dozen times the fees have been raised, during socialist-liberal governments the gas, electricity, and the rest, the overhead costs have been raised more than two dozen times. It is painful, but they did make Hungarian citizens pay for it, including pensioners, double the price of electricity and triple the price of gas, the price of gas. From 2010 onwards, this situation has been changed with quite a lot of noise, and we have managed to reduce the overhead bills and reduce the costs that pensioners, among other things, have paid. [[Zoltán Gőgös: 2010? Dr. Bertalan Tóth: in 10th grade? 2012! Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] Among the costs of living, it is also very important for pensioners in the consumer basket how much they spend on food. It is the VAT of food that can influence the price of food, so the government and the Fidesz-KDNP coalition have decided to reduce the VAT on basic foods. This has begun, it has happened, and next year we are now proposing to reduce the VAT on fish; here we were talking about VAT on pork, poultry, eggs, dairy products, this was a very important step. Mr. Secretary of State spoke about the so-called "Women's 40" programme. In 2010, it was one of the first measures, one of the first laws that came in front of Parliament, so that the woman, the woman, the mother who worked 40 years, had 40 years of service, including the years spent raising children, could go away, go away, go to a full-fledged retirement. In society, this was positive, and it was very positive, because the mothers who could be helped in such a way that the grandmother could retire and help in raising children could stay at home with the children. Mr State Secretary said that there are more than 190,000 women who have made use of the possibility of retiring after 40 years of work. Mr Secretary of State has said that it matters a great deal how big health expenses are. My fellow Members will also talk about this in detail, because I believe that we have achieved a great result at European level with the so-called blind, where we are reducing the fee for the aided pharmaceutical products, in Hungarian, if they buy a product, a pharmaceutical product in the pharmacy that has social security support, the fees for these medicines have been significantly reduced. Here I tell you that the visit fee and the hospital daily allowance were not introduced, and we managed to stop it, which would also have been a significant cost for our elderly fellow citizens and countrymen. [[15.20]] Let's talk about the future. I'd like to mention the retirement premium. The possibility of a pension premium, and the possibility that we can talk about it at all, is actually the result of the work of the entire Hungarian society, since a pension premium can be given if economic growth is above 3.5 percent. We say that pensioners should also benefit from such an achievement: if the country's economic performance is increased, then they should also be able to benefit from the pension premium beyond the pension increase. The Erzsébet programme is also an outstanding step for the government and the Fidesz-KDNP fraction at European level, as many pensioners have been able to go on holiday and relax in different places with the support of the government and the budget. The job protection action was a very important legislative decision, as we said that there are vulnerable groups in society, such as families raising young children, and such are the people who are facing retirement, who have difficulty in finding employment or becoming insecure. The job protection action has had very spectacular results, and the Secretary of State has also talked about how many of our countrymen who were about to retire have managed to keep their jobs, keep them, and anyone who wanted to work before retirement could stay there and work. Let me talk about the employment of pensioners. Our fellow Members from KDNP have tabled a legislative amendment that will be adopted next week, this is about pensioners' cooperatives. I also feel that this is very important, as we can give pensioners the opportunity to do so, as student associations do. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: The granddaughter and grandma pack the shelves, so it'll be great!]] so that if you want to work, you can have flexible working hours, so you can have one day a week, two days a week, seasonal work, you can take one or two hours a day. And what is very important is that it will not affect the pension system, so the pension payment will not stop, it will not be combined, there will be no consolidated taxation. Socialists may be familiar with this consolidated taxation, because in their time, the law was passed that when a pensioner goes to work, they combine his salary and pension and have to pay taxes together, so pensions have been taxed. If we are talking about taxation now, let me just say that, looking back on recent years, before 2010, it was my socialist-liberal fellow Members, including Lajos Korózs, who wanted to tax pensions. Now, here's the Secretary of State's exposé, during his speech, to say that there was a little noise in the socialist benches. Let me bring you news about rtlhirek.hu - you can't be accused of pro-government bias. On 11 May 2009, the news was as follows at rtlhirek.hu:. The Parliament voted to amend the law on social security pensions in 1997. After a roll-call vote on Monday, the Parliament amended the Retirement Act after 199 yeses, including Lajos Korózs, with 163 sexes and 8 abstentions. The most important change is that the 13th month pension will cease in July and the age limit will gradually rise to 65 years a year from 2012. Don't argue with me if you didn't; rtlklub.hu, minutes, and the Secretary of State listed the voting list. They would have taxed pensions, abolished the 13th month pension, and took a lot of money from pensioners by raising the cost of the rent. [[And why didn't you give it back, Congresswoman?]] They wanted to introduce the visit fee. [[Why didn't they give it back?]] [[Why didn't they give it back?]] to introduce the daily hospital contribution (Zoltán Gőgös: Why hasn't it been returned?) There was high inflation, and I could tell you a long time. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz-KDNP fraction can be expected by pensioners in the future [[Zoltán Haughty: Schmitt Pál promised 14 months! Do you want me to show you?]] we intend to continue our policy since 2010 in the same way. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Grimlock: Fidesz promised 14 months!]]
u2017-06-06-194	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. My proud fellow Member, I hope you will listen to the following speakers with the same calmness. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, who wishes to give his speech on the pulpit. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-06-06-195	I salute you, fellow Members. I am very pleased that there are pensioner organisation leaders sitting on the gallery as well as in the lodges, all the more so because they can see how pleasantly the Members of Parliament can speak side by side, as if they hadn't spent the last 20-25 years here - everyone remembers differently. Fellow Members! I would like to advance the title of this debate on how to operate a just pension system, and I think that there is room for this here in Parliament, and there is room for a debate that will take place here in Parliament for the next five hours. The MSZP considers it particularly important to improve the situation of pensioners and to establish a fair and equitable pension system. I would like to stress here that both words are of great importance: the pension system must be fair and fair. It should be clarified that pensions must ensure a certain level of former income, while at the same time ensuring that they also protect against poverty in old age. In order to perform these two functions, I believe that the pension system, which has been kicked out by the government in recent years, should be fundamentally rethinked. What exactly am I thinking? Without the need for completeness, I say that I am referring to the measures that the government and its media do not speak of, and for which we can no longer talk about social security, since even the term has been deleted from the Fundamental Law and the system of former social security management has been systematically abolished. They started by renaming contributions into social taxes, and then in the administration system they started an excessive and forced centralisation, thereby destroying a well-functioning organizational system. The mergers and cuts significantly increased the burden of the administrators, and there were delays in pension-setting procedures. In recent years, dozens of MEPs have submitted interpellations on these issues. Moreover, there is now a proposal before Parliament to put the last nail in the coffin of social security: the abolition of the National Directorate-General for Pension Insurance. If I remember correctly, we will vote on this next week, or the Fidesz will vote on it, because I am sure that opposition representatives will not give their support. With this measure, the central office of the state pension insurance will cease as a hungaricum of European countries alone, and Hungary is the only civilised country in the world where social security will no longer exist. In my opinion, Fidesz sends a message to the active insured person who has obtained the right to several million pensions and to the person receiving 3 million benefits that their case is not worth a separate administration system, and I think it is a shame. Let's look at the next problem. Why can't you retire today before the age limit, except for a group of women, which, by the way, discriminates against men? There have been a number of life-changing changes during the 2012 transformation, which led, for example, to the fact that today, in Europe alone, we do not have invalid insurance within the pension system: 200,000 people have been forced to review, tens of thousands of people have been reduced without actually improving their health, and many have been deprived of their rights, and have essentially made them careless. Dear House, Fidesz forbade pensioners to work, and now he's talking about retirement unions. Since 2013, working in the public sector, you cannot take up your salary and pension at the same time while you have already worked for this benefit. Interestingly, government potentates or members of the Constitutional Court do not have to give up their pension while taking up their state salary, but tens of thousands of people had to choose. [[15.30]] I also find it outrageous that some people's pensions are being taxed. 15 per cent of the salary converted from service pensions is deducted from personal income tax, i.e. equal to that amount. This is also a serious injustice to those affected. Dear House, Let's not forget that Fidesz tricked 3 million people into leaving the private pension system with lies and blackmail. On average, the government took a million forints from the cashiers. For many, the abolition of private pension funds has made it clear that the pension system as a whole is not just about pensioners, it is also about those who are active today. They pay contributions today, to be more precise: they pay taxes and hope to retire and receive decent care when they reach the age limit that applies to them. The government took their savings and hope that they'd ever get a pension. Of course, they will have a pension, but at what level, it also depends on how many employees will get to a pensioner, how the country's competitiveness will develop. Unfortunately, hundreds of thousands of people have left the country in recent years, and they no longer pay their taxes and contributions here. Nor, in my opinion, is the fact that, by destroying education, the government is raising the masses of untrained people, who again will not be able to generate adequate income for themselves or for future pensioners. If we cannot reverse this process, there will be no alternative but to supplement the pay-as-you-go pension scheme with a retirement pension under civil law or with a very strong social support system. The social network, on which the government has cut such a hole, needs to be rewoven, because it is now not only people but also whole social groups, because there are many living situations that cannot and do not want to be dealt with by today's supply system. This is unacceptable, in my view, under Article XXI of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In the century. Research has shown that in recent years the poverty of people over 65 has increased significantly, whose poverty rate has doubled, and that poverty in old age is particularly affecting single-person households. Many of them still have a problem with their overhead payments [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's not true.]] , heating up the apartment, replacing the medicines. I would like to quote the latest minimum living research data, my fellow Members, which showed that the single-member pensioner household is a living minim of HUF 79 757. If we look at income statistics, i.e. the incomes and benefits of pensioners, then it turns out that today there are 2.7 million pensioners in Hungary, and more than one million of these 2.7 million pensioners, or 1 million 30 thousand people, do not receive the minimum amount of living. I think that this cannot be tolerated in the 21st century. In the middle of the century. Dear House, Let's continue to see why we see the elderly, sick people today completely abandoned by the government, who doesn't care about hundreds of thousands of small pensioners, while handing out millions of pensions to their friends by abolishing the ceiling. The fact that the government has not increased the pension minimum by one forint in the last eight years has also increased poverty in old age, and has not increased the fair cash register for years; moreover, that in recent years social support has been drastically cut or even some benefits have been abolished. The possibility of a public health care service for equity has been eliminated, and the fee for care has not been increased by one forint. Are we surprised, then, that more and more people are lining up in the food distributions of civilians? Of course, this can only happen until this meal is banned. But it cannot be ignored that the government has also made it difficult to receive care in someone's home. By tightening the eligibility conditions for home assistance, many today cannot even count on this minimum amount of help, although for many it would mean a great deal. But if you are in a worse situation, you have a higher care needs, you can't just go to a nursing home. It has taken a long time before, for example, for an elderly person to get into a retirement home, the line has grown over the past year. On the social waiting list, out of the nearly 28,000 people standing in line last September, only a little less than 8,000 people had access to some kind of care until April this year. You see, this terrible imbalance of 28,000 applicants, I just note to you on the edge of the margin that I am talking to 100 people - residential nursing homes - there are 50 people in line. That's a terrible song. But those who got in may claim an entry fee of up to HUF 8 million in exchange for the benefit, and then they can pay the monthly fee. These people, who are forced to stay in a nursing home, do not live on grace, and are not there because of the kindness of the government, but paid for 40 to 45 years in the form of contributions, and by the way, 80 percent of their pensions can be claimed by the institution as a fee. This includes the institution of parenting, which I would like to say a few sentences about. The essence of this is that the elderly home can simply crush the dust on the elderly's children; if the pension is not enough for the fee, then they should pay it. Even if your children can't make a living, or raise their own children, for example, they support you. Of course, it is important for everyone to take care of their parents and children, but there are times when a family is unable to do so because it is impossible for them to make a living. Fidesz's old policy is that everyone should support themselves and their loved ones; let's say, in this area, the government is doing quite well, we heard here in the afternoon at Question Time: it provides a lot of government potenta for its own family, unfortunately, it is at the expense of taxpayers. As we see it, the elderly are being expelled from health care. The government is working to close the chronic and rehabilitation departments and transfer them to social services. Of course, by subtracting serious tens of billions from the system, while not knowing how much they want to spend on the social care system, nor knowing whether this social care system will be able to perform health care tasks. The government's goal is to, like other social housing benefits, collect serious compensation fees from sick people or their relatives. But why is that necessary? It is not true that there is no money to provide proper care for elderly, sick people in Hungary today. Dear House, For this reason, the Hungarian Socialist Party will take a number of steps after its entry into the government. We will re-introduce a system of early retirement because this option is also needed in the current employment situation. There is a need to re-introduce the disability pension system and to fully review today's poor and inhumane functioning of the care of people with disabilities. Those who cannot be rehabilitated must be guaranteed pension protection. It is untenable that the ninth year of the smallest old-age pension remains 28 500 HUF. We recommend that this amount be increased to double, that no one be given less than HUF 57,000 today. It is linked to this that we will establish a minimum system of living, which will ensure a minimum level for all workers and non-workers. Then you also need to see what remedies are available for benefits below HUF 100,000 in order to increase them. We believe that there is a need for a pension correction programme in order to catch up on low pensions. It is linked to the resolution of the problems of small pensioners that, through the social and health systems, it is necessary to provide drug support for people over 65, whether by increasing public health care or by providing adequate assistance to all elderly people in need. Under the current circumstances, the technique and methods of the annual pension increase must also be reconsidered. This is justified by the fact that the gap between pensioners and workers may continue to increase due to expected increases in wages and increases in prices, and thus the difference between old and new pensions will continue to increase with the same insurance performance. In view of this, we consider it necessary to re-introduce the former mixed indexation method; a method of raising pensions is needed to take account of the planned wage rise and the planned inflation. Unfortunately, at the time of the economic crisis, the then government was forced to suspend the payment of 13 months' benefits. Then the socialist government introduced the pension premium system. Now what you're boasting about, I'm telling you, what you're boasting about now, that bill was passed by the Bajnai government. I would like to emphasise that this will enable the government to pay a pension premium both this year and next year. They will do nothing but obey the law if they keep their word. We see that when the government spends hundreds of billions of forints on unnecessary investments, which are only used to fill the pockets of friends and the accounts of their offshore companies, there is money for an extra monthly allowance. We also believe that, in recognition of a career in professional service, a new type of service pension scheme should be introduced, which provides for tax-free pension benefits and retirement status, but encourages early retirement instead of remaining on the field. [[15.40]] It is also unacceptable to distinguish between those who are full age pensioners who can work in the competitive sector, but only if their pensions are suspended in the public sector. In addition to the fact that this measure has caused enormous health problems in the field of education, it has taken serious amounts from people already working for their pensions. The creation of an ageing life security is in the common interest of society, and I believe in it, and because of this conviction, we have initiated this debate day. I ask that my fellow Members take an active part in the work of the next five hours. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-06-06-196	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Hollik, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-06-06-197	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can agree that the current pension system is good if it is fair and fair. I would try to take into account some external circumstances that largely determine the leeway of the current government in the design of a fair and equitable pension system. I would like to talk about three of these external circumstances. The first external circumstance is the country's economic state, because although the provision and payment of pensions, the pension fund is supposed to be independent of the country's economic performance, we have seen in the last 25 years that if the country went well, the elderly people, pensioners, were able to benefit from it. Thus, economic growth is an additional revenue to the State. If the State has additional income, it is obvious that it can also provide retirement benefits to older people. So if the country's economic situation is stable or growing, pensioners have benefited from it. The second is such a non-negligible external circumstance, which affects the pension policy of the current government, employment and the number of employees, since the essence of the distribution system is that the payments of current workers ensure payment of the pension system. For this reason, how many people in Hungary work, how many people pay taxes and contributions, as the Hungarian state can pay pensions from their paid taxes and contributions. Here, too, we can say that if the number of people employed increases, the pension register will be more stable, if there are fewer people employed, the less stable it will be, or, as we have seen before 2010, the pension register will be minus. The third external circumstance, which I would like to mention, is the state of the budget, because if the country's budget and Hungary's finances are in order, they are stable, it also means predictability for pensioners. I think that predictability is the most important thing for pensioners and older people, since they are the least capable of responding to the changing external environment. It is much easier for those who are, let's say, younger in the labour market to do so, to retrain themselves, or perhaps to move elsewhere. Retiremental, old people can't do that anymore. So my third claim is that the state of the budget also has a major impact on the pension measures of the current government. And I think we can say that these three factors have a significant impact on the pension policy of the current government. It is therefore worth examining through these three factors what pensioners have experienced in the last 10 to 15 years. Let's look at the economic situation of the country between 2002 and 2010. We could see that at that time, although there was a wealth of money in the world economy, as Ferenc Gyurcsány spoke about it in the autumn speech, Europe's economic engines had not yet drowned, there was significant economic growth in Europe, we could see that Hungary had been below the European Union's growth average several times between 2002 and 2010. So we can say that the country's economic situation was not satisfactory, not only in terms of the circumstances at that time, but was particularly bad. If we look at the number of employees as a second important external circumstance, we should also point out that the fact that 200,000 people lost their jobs did not have a good effect on the pension fund between 2002 and 2010. With 200,000 fewer people, pension contributions were paid, thus making an ever greater gap in the pension fund. And if we look at the third external circumstance, we can see the state of the budget, perhaps here the most tragic of the three, because we have seen that the socialists could not, at any time between 2002 and 2010, reduce the budget deficit to less than 3 per cent, or even less than 4 per cent. There was a year, on the other hand, 2006 when they reached a deficit of 9.6% of GDP, with which, by the way, record-breakers, no one has been able to accumulate such a deficit in the last 25 years. All these external circumstances point to the fact that if the country's economic situation is poor, employment is reduced or the budget is in a tragic state, then, by definition, a government with such conditions cannot do anything, must touch pension benefits, and this is what the socialists have done. 'Cause what did they do? In 2002 and 2010, the real value of pensions decreased between 2006 and 10, while, once again, Europe was still raging and there was a great economic growth, with a 4 percent decrease in the real value of pensions in Hungary in only four years. To this end, we must add that the Gyurcsány government also reduced the value of initial pensions by 8 percent in 2008. Moreover, as has been said here several times, the Socialists have taken a month's pension from pensioners. Although the Socialists promised in 2006 that, literally I quote, a pension increase corresponding to the 14th month pension would take place under the new pension scheme, three years later the 13th month pension was also taken away. The incompetence of the Gyurcsány government is well demonstrated by the fact that Ferenc Gyurcsány, then Prime Minister, said on 5 October 2008, that the 13th month pension would remain, not even a month passed, and on 29 October he announced that pensioners could say goodbye to their one-month allowance. Therefore, the 13th month pension promise on the left is uncredited, as it was they who took it. It is important to note that the party's current leaders, namely party president Gyula Molnár, and Prime Minister László Botka, are among those who supported it, and with their vote they have contributed to taking a month's pension from pensioners. Then, because the external environment, as I mentioned, became worse and worse thanks to bad government policy, they raised the retirement age from 62 to 65 years. In addition, they wanted to introduce the visit fee, which again clearly hurt the pensioners the most, and I didn't even mention the double electricity price or triple gas price increase. On the other hand, we announced a completely different policy after Fidesz-KDNP was given the opportunity to govern. We believe that economic policy and, by the way, pension policy can only be based on cooperation. [[15.50]] Therefore, in 2010 the Government concluded an agreement with pensioners' organisations to guarantee and protect the value of pensions, whatever happens in the country. This means that the value of the pension should be increased at least every year by the rate of inflation. The Government of Hungary - now seven years later we can say it - has kept and kept its promise to pensioners and protects the purchasing value of pensions by continuously increasing and even above the level of inflation in pensions. This is shown by the figures referred to here by the Secretary of State, which show that the real value of pensions could even increase. With the adoption of the, Women 40, it has been possible for women to retire before the retirement age, with the recognition of 40 years of employment and child rearing, so that they can help young people to get back into work as a grandmother in the family as soon as possible. By the end of April 2017, more than 194 000 people have made use of this possibility. And speaking of women's 40, we can't just walk past Jobbik's policy. We think that every word of Jobbik is uncredited in the matter of pensions, because the better Members voted against when the Parliament decided that women could retire after 40 years of employment. [[Tamás Sneider: You're lying, as always!]] The Jobbik did all this by demanding 40 programs for men a year later. [[Tamás Sneider: And we meant that.]] The reason why I say that Jobbik is uncredited also shows that Mr. Tamás Sneider has a leaked speech - also a literal quote, so that I may not be accused of distorting anything - in which he said, "When I talk about how to communicate, for example, the elderly are here again. Without them, it is almost impossible to win a vote, because there are so few middle-class people and young people, not even a small number of young people are unfortunately going to vote, so that the pension age group can form a government on its own. To address them, you have to be a nice, cute kid. I think this shows the difference between our policy and Jobbik's policy. Jobbik thinks that you should be a nice, cute child, and we think that a fair, fair pension system should be run for pensioners. I think that this type of statement looks down on elderly voters, so everything Jobbik says and recommends about the elderly is just a crooked voting machine. But back to government pension policy: we saw that the three external circumstances that I mentioned - the economic state of the country, employment and the budget situation - all stabilised after 2010 - were well above the average growth rate in the European Union. So what we see is that the country's economic situation is in order. We can see that employment is constantly increasing, with 700 thousand more working - i.e. paying taxes and contributions from which pensions can be paid - than in 2010. We can also see that the budget is stable, because every year there are less than 3 percent, and even less than 2 percent, of the budget deficit. These external circumstances allow the government to give priority to pensioners. For example, the government also supports the employment of older people. Mr Secretary of State also said that, in the framework of the job protection action, it helps to keep jobs for the most vulnerable groups of workers. The number of beneficiaries is the highest, and those over 55 represent 40% of the beneficiaries. In the past, high overhead costs have also made the situation worse for pensioners, but the national government has also taken measures in this area, with three steps to reduce the cost of overhead heating, gas and electricity falling by 25%. It is also an important achievement for pensioners that the VAT on basic foods has decreased and will continue to decrease. In 2016, the VAT on pigmeat fell, and in January 2017, the VAT on milk, eggs and poultrymeat fell to 5%. In 2018, the VAT on fish could be reduced to 5 percent if the Parliament adopts next year's budget. I can tell you that the KDNP and the Fidesz faction will certainly accept it. In the case of drug prices, which has also been mentioned, the blind system has indeed produced significant results. To give an example: for a monthly dose of one of the most commonly used cholesterol lowering products used in cardiovascular diseases in 2009, during the socialists' administration, the patients paid HUF 1700, and today they have to pay HUF 185 for this. But I can give you a similar example of antihypertensive medicines, and since 2010, therapeutic options have been extended every year in terms of drug supply. As a result, the relative income poverty among pensioners has decreased by one third in the last six years, with an average of 13.8 per cent in the EU and 4.5 per cent in Hungary. In conclusion, Fidesz and KDNP appreciate and respect Hungarian pensioners, expect their knowledge and experience, and will continue to do everything in the future to ensure that older people can live safely and safely. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the House, lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2017-06-06-199	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, After István Hollik, as usual, lied a great lie again, let me respond. The Jobbik was obviously just on the vote when you promised a lot of ladies that they could retire after 40 years of employment. Then this promise was not fulfilled, especially 90,000 older women could not retire to this day, because what you promised in the election campaign was not fulfilled, and we wanted them to retire as you promised. But obviously, this is not the only problem, but István Hollik talks about a sustainable pension system, that they love pensioners and do everything for them. There is only one problem, honourable Member and honourable Members of Parliament: the clear case would have been that if it had been that which had entered the pension fund in Hungary years ago as a pension contribution, it would have continued to be a pension contribution, not a social contribution tax. You lost only HUF 600 billion from the social contribution tax last year, 300 billion in the previous year, which if it was a pension contribution, pensioners would have had to have received it. You shortened the pensioners by HUF 300 billion in 2015 and HUF 600 billion in 2016 because the contribution was converted into a tax, and you did not have to pay as a pension contribution for anything you wanted to spend it on. So, in a broad sense, so much for how you think about pensions. After this little response, let me get to the point of my speech. First of all, when Jobbik talks about the pension system and now talks about the Wages Union in Europe, it talks about nothing but that pensions must be caught up in EU pensions, because it is perfectly logical that the Wages Union is synonymous with raising pensions to the EU level, because the development of the economy, the salaries, determines the amount of which a pension contribution can then be paid. [[In the notary seat István Ikotity will be replaced by Nándor Gúr.]] In Hungarian, who is today fighting against the pay union in Hungary, who says today in Hungary that we should never make as much as Western European workers, he also immediately says that Hungarian pensioners should never have an income as much as Western European pensioners. That's exactly what you said today. Today you have said, more than once, in the previous speeches, that there is no need for this, that you have already made a bed for a large number of pensioners to continue living in poverty in Hungary because they do not wish to catch up on wages. This would be necessary, because we can see that in 2009 the Hungarian State spent 11 percent of GDP on the pension system, the payment of pensions, and today only 9 percent on the pension system - much lower part. [[István Hollik: Because GDP is increasing!]] And the European Union pays 13 percent of GDP, no matter how surprised you are, Mr István Hollik, look at the data, it translates 13 percent of it, i.e. one and a half times as much on average as the Hungarian state. This is how much we are lagging behind in the payment of pensions compared to Western Europe, but also to the neighbouring countries of Central and Eastern Europe. What has happened in Hungary over the last 27 years is much more wrong. Since wages have been artificially kept low by previous governments, very low pensions have emerged in Hungary. [[16.00]] After all, it is quite obvious that when a million people are employed on minimum wages for decades or because of unemployment they do not have employment or periods of employment, they retire with extremely low pensions. Today, if someone is employed at minimum wage, honourable Members, and we are talking about this, because that is the biggest problem, he earns around 80,000 forints. Thanks to this, his pension is 30-40 or even 50 years of employment, 60 thousand forints. Sixty thousand forints! This is the average for a minimum wage individual. And I ask you: those nurses, those social workers who have been working on such low wages for decades, who have been doing the most sacrificed work in Hungary, deserve to be constantly humiliated with low wages even during their working years, and never appreciated, starve from their pensions in their retirement years? Because that is what today's Hungarian pension system is all about. That is why today's initiative is very good that we can finally talk about it. And there are hundreds of thousands and even millions to talk about, because if I look at statistics alone, under HUF 100,000, there are 650,000 pensioners living in Hungary today. Of course, you can say that 100,000 forints is not such a bad pension. Yeah, only when a disease comes, when there's any serious problem, you have to pay the gratuity money in Hungary, you have to pay for the drugs, then that old man, that pensioner, starts downhill. In my own district, in my own village, I didn't meet a man like that who was able to support himself from a pension of 60-80 or 100 thousand forints for a while, because the ross was delivered from somewhere, and he lived in a room, and he didn't buy clothes, but as soon as such a disease occurred, he was practically finished. And if it wasn't much help, it slipped nicely down to the coffin, literally - today in Hungary. Well, that's why we need what Jobbik has been saying for a long time that we need a differentiated pension increase. After all, there is a need for a higher rate of low pensions than high pensions or the luxury pensions introduced by Fidesz. And let me stop here again for a moment, your economic policy and your attitude to retirement. Well, four years ago, the highest pension in Hungary was around 600 thousand forints. You have made a nice law, you have abolished the pension contribution ceiling; what exists everywhere in the world, by the way, there is no other country in Europe where it does not exist, because it is the responsibility of the state to pay a decent pension system everywhere, not to pay the state of luxury pensions. Today, the highest pensions are over HUF 2 million. Seven more years, and some people will be taking 10 million forints of pensions a month if your system remains - thank God, it's unlikely. I ask you, is this the kind of world we want to build, how do we have a pension of HUF 50,000 and a pension of HUF 10 million? Is this the just Hungarian society? I don't think so. And obviously, they all need to be changed. And Jobbik has already put a number of initiatives on the table, but, well, what God gives us, they're all voted off by the government. It also votes against the simple thing that I have just submitted to the committee today to abolish, in the case of pensioners who retire from the public service relationship, the clause that will prevent them from being re-employed. Four or five years ago, when you made this law, you might have had some basis, maybe you could explain it somehow. But today, when 300 thousand more people have migrated from Hungary since then, when there is a shortage of labour in all areas, and you will have to pay billions, because you will probably still be in government when the final judgment of the Strasbourg court comes in second instance, and you will be able to pay 4400 public servants the many, many millions of HUF severance payments, then, please, you will have to solve it yourself. We have made a suggestion that it will not cost you billions of dollars, but, of course, the Hungarian state, because it will probably not come from your pockets, but it has been voted off again. There are many cases that the Fidesz does not want to deal with inexplicably, we do not know what the current government is waiting for. Well, given all these injustices, Jobbik says that a new pension system, a new pension system, is needed. We need to change the current situation, because it is clearly becoming unsustainable in the long term, to be more precise: unfair, because this is the most important word in my opinion. What can be done with this pension system? Well, first of all, what I've been talking about, the social contribution tax should be treated again as a pension contribution. And we need to get the old system restored so that we can't make hundreds of billions disappear at any time, any year, out of the amount that people have paid as pensions, and now they're basically only paying as one tax, and it can be spent on anything, every year the government decides how much of it they want to spend graciously on pensions. Of course, if this happens, you can talk again about an individual pension account; because you can't talk until then. Because, please, now that the Hungarian state has a legal obligation, it is only a 10-percent pension contribution paid by employees, i.e. one-third of the expected pension. Two-thirds of the other ones are hanging in the air, which can be given, please, because it only exists in the form of a transmitter. It can't be maintained like this. If we ever want the Hungarian people to become pension conscious, to trust the Hungarian pension system, then you can't do such crazy things that you have done over the last seven years in a row about the pension system. And if there is an individual pension account, then, of course, the pension contribution ceiling must also be restored, to be more precise, to eliminate the fact that in Hungary, as a curiot of the world, state pensions can exist. Let us, of course, talk not only about pensions themselves, but also about the quality of care. You have already said this, Mr Secretary of State, quite rightly, because I believe that this issue is part of today's debate. It is quite clear that, in recent times, no matter how we look at the data and the situation, there is a huge problem with the capacity of pension homes to live in. As has already been said here, Congressman Lajos Korózs said that 28,000 people are waiting to be placed in an elderly home. Twenty-eight thousand! These people deserve it, and they would also have an opportunity, a financial opportunity for many, a significant part of them, to receive such accommodation. Therefore, Jobbik has a very strong vision that, as soon as possible, it will launch an elderly home building programme and a space extension programme from 2018. And I'll keep it quietly, when we were talking about rural development here, I said two words about this, and I said that if a small settlement is built in such an elderly home, there should be a round number, an old home with a hundred seats, it will give 40 people a job in that settlement; 40 people do not have to migrate from a small settlement. I am asking whether the establishment and development of such nursing homes is not a useful activity for the preservation of the countryside. And let's look at home-patient care, home-care, home-care. It is quite clear that because social workers are not well paid, there are few in this area, it is becoming increasingly difficult for them to bear the burden. Here too, of course, we need to change, and I would like to point out in particular that it is very necessary to improve technical standards. We could run a lot of things much cheaper in Hungary, such as home care and home care, if we simply made some technical improvements. At the moment, a private company sells a small, simple watch that constantly measures heart rate and everything else, and immediately reports to the dispatch center, but it hardly exists when an old man has a problem at home, or if an old man is attacked. We have just had a consultation, and we have seen the need to buy various radio frequency waves for small settlements so that they can operate outdated devices like this, but that doesn't apply to everyone. Please, if only this system were introduced, which could happen from a very low budget, in Hungary, the mortality rate could decrease by thousands in the case of the elderly, because it would be possible to go out in time, whether the doctors or nurses or the assisting neighbour could pass in time. I may have left for the last time the important question is that we will, of course, continue to stand in favour of giving men the opportunity to retire after 40 years of employment. We have already discussed this, it was a shameful debate, by the way, and I have to add what happened here in Parliament as we have seen it. [[16.10]] Union leaders, literally found male men, almost went out of this building crying when they saw your reactions. Not everyone was here at the time, of course, but there were a few. I would like to say again that, unfortunately, what they say as a counterargument is the only thing that would have cost the Hungarian State, well, I can already say that if the 600 billion had not been removed last year and the 300 billion before it was due to the social contribution tax, then it is not a question that this is feasible. But let us certainly note that one third of men are not even worth the retirement age. If it is worth it, it will die four years earlier, and, of course, thanks to all of this, the amount that has to be paid to the ladies through this programme is much higher than that which would otherwise have to be paid by men, even if men are going to retire on average with a pension that is 10 percent higher. Thank you very much for listening to me, and my colleagues will provide additional additives on what pension system Jobbik will want to implement in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-06-200	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-06-06-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The current pension system needs to be reformed. If anyone has any doubts about this, travels the country and talks to pensioners, ask them how they live and what they advise. They will also tell you what they think about the government's policy on pensioners. They are able to say that government politicians live on so many pensions, but they also send messages that do not tolerate printing ink. They say there's money to improve the situation of pensioners, but it's being stolen or given to people who don't need it. In my lead speakers, I appreciate the government's pension policy over the last seven years, while I will present the proposals of LMP in the first normal comment. The May Other also joined this debate day initiative as a petitioner, because we agree that a fair and equitable pension system is needed and that this cannot be said about the current pension system. Let's start with the data. According to the data of the National Pension Insurance DG in January 2017, 2 million 45 thousand pensioners live in Hungary, who are receiving old-age pensions. This does not include recipients of pre-age benefits, disability benefits, widow's pension. The average total benefit is 123,000 HUF, but if you look at the main care only, you can talk about an average pension of 112 thousand HUF. According to statistics, 71,000 pensioners receive a pension below HUF 50,000, 344 thousand receive a pension below the pension minimum of HUF 79 thousand. However, if you look at the number of people receiving a pension below average, because 57 percent of pensioners, or 1 million 166,000 people, get less than 112 thousand forints, have to make a living. Over HUF 300,000 pension is granted to 14,500 people. So these are the figures that show that the current pension system cannot meet the condition of guaranteeing against poverty in old age. We can see that hundreds of thousands of pensioners live below the poverty threshold and below the minimum living age. There are more than half a million people in less than 100 thousand forints of care, which, we can imagine, is enough for. Only in the case of many pensioners, monthly medical expenses amount to 20-30 thousand forints per month. The average pension does not give a real picture of pensions, because more than half of those who receive it fall below the average. Ladies and gentlemen, It is also worth looking behind numbers by gender: women's pensions are on average 14 percent lower than men's pensions, i.e. women's disadvantage in the labour market, long-term losses in the labour market and wage disadvantages in the pension. However, important information is also provided by the income data of the HCSO, which shows how the proportion of pensioners living in old age poverty has changed. The share of pension households living below the poverty line was 4.6 percent in 2010, which increased to 7.1 percent in 2015. Thus, over five years, the number of pensioners living in income poverty has increased significantly. So this is the sad situation. And what has the government done in the last seven years? I summarize it in five points, and these five points are: the government has not maintained the purchasing value of pensions; it has done nothing for the pensioners; it has consciously made work for the pensioner impossible; it has destroyed, made the self-care system impossible; and it has consciously kept wages low, with a direct consequence of low pensions. I'll start by saying that you didn't retain the purchasing value of pensions. The Prime Minister recently said that the government has fulfilled all its obligations in the matter of pensions. It has undertaken to maintain the purchasing value of pensions by means of the inflation-following indexation. However, that is not true, and I can give you three reasons for this. (1) First of all, the government did not expect inflation on pension increases according to the pensioner consumer basket, such as the fact that pensioners spend almost two and a half times the average on pharmaceutical expenditure. Let me give you an example. This year, the government increased pensions by 1.6 percent at the beginning of the year, while the drug prices increased by 4-5 percent, i.e. 3-4 times more than the pension, and this is probably the case in recent years. In the case of pensioner inflation, weighted account should be taken of all expenditure that pensioners typically spend more on. These include medicines, basic foods or domestic energy, while transport is not included because of the travel benefits of pensioners. So the government should have raised pensions according to pensioner inflation in order to say that pensions have maintained their purchasing value. Secondly, I point out that there has been no increase in the pension minimum in recent years, for the tenth year next year. The minimum amount of old-age pension has been unchanged since 2008, at 28 500 HUF, and a range of social benefits is calculated on this basis. Therefore, there has been no increase in the minimum pension rate following inflation; tens of thousands of pensioners are starving because of 28 500 forints, my fellow Members, it is impossible to make a living. Thirdly, it cannot be said that the government has done its job in terms of the value-proofness of pensions, because the last time, this year, it has deliberately underestimated inflation. The government first planned inflation below 1 per cent, the lowest rate of pension increase since the regime change, while the Hungarian National Bank had already calculated a 2.4 per cent inflation, which was subsequently modified to 2.6. The government adjusted at the end of the year to 1.6 per cent, but was deliberately calculating the increase below expected inflation. Which means the government is sitting on the pensioners' money until November. Why? Maybe he wants the bigger pension increase in November to look like it's some kind of extraordinary government benefit. The LMP suggested moving forward the November pension correction, but the governing parties simply said no. The government didn't do anything for the pensioners. The current uniform rate of pension increases is low for small pensioners and higher for those receiving higher benefits. For example, an increase of 1.6 percent meant an increase of HUF 1000-1500 to pensioners below HUF 100,000, an increase of around HUF 5 thousand or above to pensioners receiving HUF 300,000 or above. This pension system will only further preserve the situation of pensioners living in poverty or poverty. The Fidesz government has done nothing to help small pensioners, ensure their care for the minimum age, and even make their situation worse. It has removed the right to social security from the Fundamental Law, which the government is now trying to do. It has neither changed the pension indexing system nor introduced any social pension supplement system; it has frozen the minimum pension rate; it has deprived invalids of their acquired rights, pensions and reduced their benefits. [[16.20]] The disability pension has been unconstitutionally converted into care and its amount has been reduced. These disabled people can expect lower benefits during their retirement years. Early retirement and early retirement pensions have been abolished, regular social assistance for unemployed people over 55 years of age has been abolished, and health-damaged, incompetent people are now being deprived of aid. This has made the situation of elderly people who are facing retirement age in a state of health disability completely impossible. They abolished the equity care fee that had previously been paid to relatives who had been sick, elderly parents at home, and also tightened up parental support, thus putting the costs of caring for elderly parents on the part of the family, even at the cost of breaking up families. Let's continue to see what the government has done. It also damaged the livelihood of pensioners by knowingly making work for the pension impossible. The government's worst measure was to introduce forced retirement in the public sector in 2013 and for those who were allowed to continue their employment, to ban double benefits, i.e. to choose between wages and pensions. The aim was to remove about 10,000 pensioners from the public sector, and this was one of the restrictions of Matolcsy. Mandatory retirement involves the firing of elderly, experienced professionals and the dismantling of public services. They forced the most experienced doctors, nurses, educators, workers in cultural and social areas to retire, while even then there was a huge shortage of staff in these sectors. The government knew exactly that, so it allowed further employment in health care. However, in this case, workers could not have received both pensions and wages, they had to choose. This year, the government decided to continue the employment of pensioners up to two years. It is only because of these that it is difficult to believe that the government, with pensioners' cooperatives of general interest, really wants to improve the situation of pensioners. If this were to be the aim, it would simply remove the barriers to employment in the public sector, forced retirement and allow double benefits, i.e. to obtain employment income in addition to pension provision, as is the case in the competitive sector today. We think that the pension society will only be good for employers to get cheap labour, replace more expensive active-age workers with cheaper workers, or for Fidesz-neighbors to steal EU subsidies, as has happened in employment cooperatives. The government has also ruined the livelihood of future pensioners in the elderly by attacking self-care systems. In 2010, 3 million people's private pension funds were nationalised with reference to the introduction of individual pension accounts, of which only 1,400 billion were eventually used to reduce debt. The rest, 1,600 billion, have been expended. However, even in October 2010, a parliamentary decision was adopted on the introduction of individual accounts, which has not yet happened. In the absence of real individual accounts, payments are not recorded, because it does not reveal, that money, the pension cover for those who are still working today, was expended and stolen by the government. In the absence of individual accounts, people are unable to keep track of the amount of pension they can expect after paid pension contributions. That's cheating the pensioners of the future. In addition to draining private pension funds, the move against self-care was to increase the taxation of pension savings and to increase the tax on pension fund cafeteria. The government, pointing to the European Commission's infringement procedure, also included pension savings payments under higher-tax, non-wage benefits. Instead of encouraging self - care, they made workers interested in not saving their old age. The government has also made it impossible for today's contributors, i.e. future pensioners, to live in old age by keeping wages low over the last seven years. Employee poverty has been increased by the government's plan for a one-key tax system that he took from the poor, giving to the rich. He based economic policy and competitiveness on cheap labour force, thus promising low labour costs to lure foreign investors into the country. It has not dealt with mass emigration due to low wages until it has caused a serious shortage of labour, and this has not forced them to raise wages. The low wage policy included mass public work and the reduction of public wages below the minimum wage. We ask the government what will happen to the people working in public work with their pensions, what pensions they can expect; but the line could continue. This is the situation where we need to find a way out. I will present the proposals of the LMP in my next comment. In the meantime, thank you for your attention.
u2017-06-06-202	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Independent Members shall not take part in the debate. We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2017-06-06-203	Mr President, Fellow Members! It's just basics. 600,000 people were driven out of this country, which has an impact on the pensions of the next period. There's been a huge withdrawal of funds in the pension system. Forints 3000 billion - we can safely say - were stolen from private pension savings. They're out of funding social security. Former pension rights have been abolished, administrative and organisational structures and systems have been destroyed. The security and guarantees of pensions are no longer covered. Pension is not a donation, it should be noted to you that pension is a acquired right, based on work and contributions. For these very reasons, we will obviously take steps that are about the total pension minimum in our period of government, not 28 500, but, as my colleague Korózs said, double that, 57 thousand forints. We will provide more than value-proof through mixed funding, unlike the way you do, that you are based only on inflation. The pensioner consumer basket will certainly be the basis for the calculation, because it doesn't matter what's in that basket: a drug, food or overhead financing item. We will be making adjustments to pensions, raising equity pensions, simply because everything is clearly needed. But in addition to that, we will also ensure activity and the possibility of flexible retirement, because you have not. Bence Rétvári: 40 years of entitlement instead of service time - just to learn the truth. In addition to the kidnapping of HUF 3000 billion, the introduction of an individual pension account - Gabriella Selmeczi may have more to say about it. Retirement age 65 years? - Congressman Hollik! I would like to point out that in December 2010 there was a popular initiative: it wanted to change the possibility of retirement to 62 years. You canceled this: 65 years, December 2010 [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Your period of government. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-06-06-204	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-06-205	Thank you very much. I would just like to react very briefly to what my fellow Member Gur has said. In Hungary, he was a prime minister who told Hungarian young people, Hungarian entrepreneurs, Hungarian people that it was possible to leave, and this was the Prime Minister of the Hungarian Socialist Party and the President of the Hungarian Socialist Party. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] You were talking about guarantees, honourable Member. How authentic can you hear? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] How credible can it be heard from any member of the Hungarian Socialist Party that they give guarantees to pensioners when you were the only party in Hungary's history who took a month's pension from pensioners? ! You say it's not a gift that comes after work. That's true, but no one believes that from you, because you took it. At the time, they didn't say it was due, they even denied that it was a pension, the amount of the 13th month pension, and they just took it away. (Attila Mesterházy: Did you give it back? Did you give it back? Give me 14 months. Whatever guarantees you give us, there is no value to that guarantee, because you have shown by your practice that you can take anything from anyone. [[16.30]] As regards the differences in calculation methods, honourable Member, if we had calculated the increase in pensions between 2011-16, let us say in your method of calculation, an average pension today would be less than HUF 4080 per month, i.e. 50 thousand forints per year from pensioners' pocket if they had calculated the pension according to the method indicated by you and not according to the pension calculation system introduced during the Fidesz-KDNP period. This would cost every Hungarian pensioner 50 thousand HUF if we had used this method in Hungary between 2011-15. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-206	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi, Fidesz Group. Fellow Members! Everyone has the opportunity to speak. Thank you for your understanding. Here you go.
u2017-06-06-207	Mr President, We have heard serious facts from the Secretary of State about what would happen if the pension raising technique proposed by the Socialists were now, how much less pensioners would now receive. What I'm asking for is that the state of the pension fund, the amount of money that goes into the pension fund, from which we pay the old-age pension every month, depends on how many people work in a country and how much they pay. [[Dr. István Józsa: And how many abroad!]] By reducing unemployment during the Fidesz-KDNP government and increasing numbers of people working, this means that the pension fund will also be increased by paying pension contributions. By increasing the minimum wage several times, pushing the salaries upwards, more money is added to the pension fund through the contribution. Several programmes have been launched for wage increases. We have raised, among other things, the wages of civil servants, remember, teachers, health workers, including the wages of nurses, but we have also raised the wages of law enforcement workers, with the introduction of career models in many places. With the increase in wages, we also pay more money and more forints in the pension fund from which we can pay old-age pensions. Thus, the state of the pension fund is greatly influenced by the economic policy pursued by that government. If the economy is growing, the engine of the economy is working, wages are increasing, whether it is a minimum wage, whether it is the wages of civil servants or the sector of competition, I would like to remind you that Hungary is in the top fifth position on the average of the European Union's wage increases in the competitive sector. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-208	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Statement by each of its representatives will now take place on the basis of a written notification of the factions. I now give the floor to Mrs Csöbör, Member of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-06-06-209	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, V/15693 on the measures necessary for the establishment of a fair and equitable pension system. I would like to say the following on political debate day 1. Europe is struggling with a serious economic, political, migration and security crisis, while the Orbán government achieves excellent economic results, its internal political position is solid, active and constructive in foreign policy and security policy from the Hungarian government, which has never seen before. The political leaders of the Brussels institutions pursue a two-faced policy because they condemn the country outwards, while following the Hungarian road in a rapid pace with their actions. With regard to the pension scheme, the civilian government has been operating in the same positive way and successfully since the change of government since 2010. But what is the general and rock - solid basis of the civil government's pension policy? Let's just say it's common sense. But a little more, the government is creating a stable and reliable pension system that does not regenerate public debt, because it is not based on credit, but on our economic achievements so far. Everyone is free to decide what a better policy is: if we promise 13 months' pensions and other benefits irresponsiblely and crookedly before the elections, and then, after the elections, we bankrupt the country at the speed of lightning and take on astronomical loans, which will be paid by the government after us? Or is it a policy that predicts what the country is capable of, including ensuring maximum benefits, avoiding bankruptcy and borrowing? The civil government has every right to talk about this because this has happened in Hungary over the last 15 years. The Socialists promised the starry sky in 2002 only to win, and then they were the most surprised [[Dr. István Apáti: When they won!]] when the economy collapsed and EUR 20 billion of loans had to be taken out. 20 billion euros! [[Dr. István Józsa: You know that wrong, because 12!]] As members of the radical national party, in relation to the members of Parliament, [[Dr. István Józsa: And you even bought MOL from it!]] At least we can say that they have no moral right to speak either in the church of the nation, as they have recently called Parliament, because their voters voted for a programme where they voted for them, of which there is nothing left today. [[Dr. István Józsa: What is left of the parking?]] Where is your radicality, your radicalism, and where is the nation's cause, gentlemen? [[Dr. István Apáti: What's wrong?]] You have deceived your constituents! Or is it the case of the Hungarian nation that they sneak up behind a corrupt speculator? Tax avoidance, in Hungarian: is tax denial recently called philanthropy, philanthropy? [[Mr. President, how does this come about pensioning?]] I thought that Soros' dream of the world state was the cause of the liberals. [[Dr. István Apáti: Who learned from Soros' money?]] So it's working against the nation states to completely eliminate the borders... [[Noise, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks. Tamás Sneider: Get to the point. The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr. President, thank you. About six months ago, I said here, in the same place, that Jobbik became a half-socialist-half-liberal party, and they smiled at it, saying it was an exaggeration. Six months later, everyone can see that this is the truth. The Jobbik national radical party has become a liberal opportunist party. [[Dr. István Apáti: Oh! You're smiling on that, too.]] They would change the pension system by giving men the possibility of a 40-program programme for women. It's pure opportunism, and there's nothing to support it. [[Dr. István Józsa: Is this different from the burned-out communist?]] Because all sociologists on Earth acknowledge that women who are parents, educators and often still working deserve to be compensated by society for this extra effort. [[Tamás Sneider: Everyone admits that!]] There are only infantile arguments against this, for example, that men work a lot at home, that they are involved in raising children, and so on. Once again, the right-wingers noticed with their great wits a gap where they could enter with great noise, hoping to bring them some political benefit. [[Tamás Sneider: What if the man raises the child?]] That's what I call political opportunism and the idea of blowing off anyone's song, even George Soros and the recently cursed Simicka. The countryside is just beginning to discover what you're doing, and that doesn't bode well for you, my fellow goodies. [[Dr. István Apáti: We'll see!]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Tamás Sneider: Anything about the pension system?]]
u2017-06-06-210	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Each faction will take place, and I think that each faction will explain its position. [[Tamás Sneider: The congresswoman has only missed the agenda!]] The two-minute speeches also give us the opportunity to do so, and I ask you to respect each other's position. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, MSZP Group.
u2017-06-06-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to turn back to the previous comment on the subject of the agenda, on the Hungarian pension system, on a fair and sustainable pension system. Obviously, I would respond from what has been said to the questions that have been related to this, I would not respond at all to the speeches presenting general and unworthy politicalisation. Firstly, a great deal has been mentioned in various lights about the private pension fund system, which you have managed to destroy and eliminate. About HUF 3000 billion of private pension savings were made. So what we must first lay down is that if we look at the pension system, you have taken a significant cut of future pensions, savings that may have been set aside for future pensions under a system that needs correction. But basically they did, these funds would have served pension payments in decades, but you took them away, and for the remaining 55 thousand members today it is clear that the return of about 8-9 percent is indeed an appropriate return. [[16.40]] You have taken away the possibility of this return from 3 million Hungarians. But they also took away his pension for people, hundreds of thousands of people who were already retired, owned acquired rights, earned the right to retire through years of work. I will certainly discuss this in more detail, as will mining pensions, and, by the way, the perhaps most unmet issue, the destruction of the disability pension system. But first, let me tell you two more things. On the one hand, Mr Secretary of State spoke a lot about the burden of the high VAT rate for the Hungarian pensioner society before 2010. Then I would ask Mr Secretary of State how much of the burden the European peak VAT rate, which you have introduced, is 27 percent of the products for pensioners as well, because the VAT rate of 5 percent is very narrow, it still applies only to basic foods. Zoltán Gőgös is here with me, whose proposal, if it had been accepted four years ago, I think that today's Hungarian pensioners would live much better now, but they did not. Today, the VAT rate for as many products as possible is Europe's peak, 27 percent. On the other hand, there were many words about the 13th month pension issue, about which a statement can be made with amazing confidence: the 13th month pension was granted to Hungarian pensioners only during socialist government. It was introduced during the government of the Hungarian Socialist Party and was temporarily suspended as a result of the pressure caused by the global economic crisis. Of course, Lajos Korózs also mentioned that he will be partially re-entering the Hungarian pensioners on the basis of legislation that we have adopted. But we have made an amending proposal to the budget, and it is safe to accept it if they are still criticising this decision during the global economic crisis. Obviously, if you do not think of spending on the propagandaistery of the Rogán, or if you do not think that MVM should continue this kind of unworthy and inconvenient sponsorship, or if I could settle for a little less funding for its public life, then I think that there would also be funds in this budget to pay the 13th month pensions. So all we need to do is accept the Hungarian Socialist Party's proposal. But then some thoughts about those who have already acquired the right to retire. With their 2011 decision, you virtually removed the possibility of early retirement from 2012, taking away hundreds of thousands of people's pension status, thus taking away their other benefits, and many of them lost 16 percent of their benefits. The Fundamental Law, which you have adopted, is a one-party Fundamental Law, and basically, instead of the right to social security, it provides only a kind of ambition. Social security as an expression is no longer included in this Fundamental Law. We have repeatedly initiated that some kind of pre-age benefit should and should be re-introduced in terms of future pension rights. I am not saying, therefore, that this system could not be rethought or partly tightened up, but that you practically abolished this system is intolerable, and that it has pushed hundreds of thousands of people into an uninhabited line or into poverty. This has therefore affected pensioners who, where appropriate, took up an armed service or a very difficult job, knowing that they could otherwise expect a more favourable retirement opportunity. But it also affected, in a completely incomprehensible way, the system of early retirement pensions, which did not cost a penny of state money. Here employers were able to redeem the additional cost by paying the remaining contribution before retirement, and to retire flexibly. It was good for the employer, it was good for the employee, it didn't cost the state any money, but you destroyed this system. In general, since 2012, it has been a hundred billion in size that has been withdrawn from the pension system by kicking hundreds of thousands of people out of the pension system. The miners were treated with such unworthy treatment. Mining pensions were abolished and, in fact, a kind of temporary mining allowance was introduced, which concerned only those working in underground jobs or at least 5 000 shifts at 25 years of mining business in Hungary, and I say that it concerned the underground branch, not for example the expositions, where appropriate, those working in lignite mines. In any case, it is already a non-penalty benefit for those who receive mining benefits and only for the smaller part of them. It's unworthy. It is also unworthy because the average age of miners is significantly lower than the average age of the Hungarian population, the Hungarian male population. Few of them experience the age limit for old-age pensions, unfortunately very few. That you have practically abolished their mining pension in that form is an unworthy thing, they have benefited from the fact that the Hungarian industry is XX. In the second half of the century, it should unfold and grow. In this respect, too, we propose that anyone who has been pensioners once will still receive what was due to him before 12:00. About disabled pensioners: In 2012, you also attacked disabled pensioners. From the revelations of the then Secretary of State for Social Affairs, they were apparently presented as frauds and freeloaders. Even then, we have repeatedly called attention to this unworthy treatment and revelation. Such previous statuses have been abolished and other related benefits have been removed. A review was announced, which was said then - it seemed - to be completed by the end of 13 - affected about 200,000 people, but the completion of the review was still delayed for about two years. They receive a type of sickness benefit paid by the Health Insurance Fund, taking away their pension rights, or most of them. The supply of tens of thousands of people was reduced, and tens of thousands of people's rights were completely abolished, essentially rendered unsatisfying, thereby making them land runners. The general balance sheet can be withdrawn by removing around 305 thousand persons from their invalidity pensions from the legislative changes that entered into force on 1 January 2012. There may be 30 thousand persons with disabilities who have a disability of between 40 and 99 percent due to a lack of insurance periods, who have health problems between 40 and 99 percent, who are not entitled to receive any money at all. I think this shows your policy well, as well as those rehabilitation programs, of which one half, a recent development, was asked by Lajos Korózs today. But the system that you have introduced since September 2016 gives you the opportunity, for example, to pay only a special public wage for their six hours of employment, which is a net HUF 27,000. Six hours of work one day; I think this is inconclusive, especially if we look at the fact that only half of the rehabilitation contributions paid by employers have been used to pay for them. So it would be possible to pay these people twice as much, but you don't. But what came into force from 1 April 2017, according to a new amendment, that is that some groups of patients would have been employed for 30 per cent of the minimum wage, for only HUF 220 an hour, when, once again, they could have been disabled pensioners today, if they hadn't beaten up this system. Thus, in 4 hours of daily employment, some patients can earn HUF 880 per day for a fee of HUF 750 per day in some patient groups, about HUF 130 per day, which is what remains for them after payment of the fee. [[16.50]] Amazing! Not only did you leave people on the side of the road in Hungary, but hundreds of thousands of people were thrown into the ditch; there is no other way to say this. In the context of a fair and equitable pension system, these must certainly be placed on the table. When you refer to what is happening in the neighbouring countries, I would like to say to you that, compared to the total population, 1.5 percent are disabled and rehabilitation recipients in Hungary, this is around 4 percent in Slovakia. You have referred a great deal to Slovakia in this regard. So justice must be done, and justice will be done. The old-age pension minimum will be doubled, we will have the opportunity to preserve the real value of pensions and we will also restore the 13th month pension. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-06-06-212	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-06-213	Thank you very much. I also think that the latter speech was a good example of socialist sloganism on the one hand and of how different the socialists say in the government and opposition on the other. We've heard it more than once, it looks like [[Zoltán Gőgös: We gave you the 13th month's pension!]] This is stated within the Socialist Party that the withdrawal of a month's pension is said to have temporarily suspended the 13th month's pension. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's right!]] I think we can all think of Austrian Chancellor Werner Faymann, who doesn't build a fence, only gates with broad flanks, the socialists don't take it away either, but simply temporarily suspend the 13th month pension. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Why? Did you give it back?]] The point is the same: pensioners were taken from pensioners, and in our time their purchasing value increased by 9.5 percent. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Stop annoying me! Defiance.]] But I also think it is very, very talkative that our fellow Member has spoken about the fact that already existing pensions have been taken. Honourable Member, we have not taken anything from anyone. Those in need of social benefits received social benefits, and the others received pensions. But let us hear from your former fellow Members that on the same issue, which you have now completely opposed, how they spoke here in Parliament. As Minister of Finance János Veres here in Parliament on 2 March 2009 he said that these certain structural changes could not be avoided, i.e. they must be applied to all the areas that you listed in the Netherlands example concerning the pension system, the disability pension system, unemployment benefits and many other areas. So John Veres required a change in this system. [[Lajos Korózs: This does not mean that people are left without care!]] Let's listen to Lajos Korózs on 9 December 2008. These are all related to what I have already quoted from Ferenc Gyurcsány, and I would not like to quote it again. You said, Mr. Congressman:. Of course, I know that in the years after the change of regime, a lot of people have fled into invalid retirement, but in the long run, there can be no perspective for a society that if there are fluctuations in the labour market, or because its knowledge cannot be converted, or because its health is somewhat reduced, it is the only escape route that we are going to the disability pension. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Lajos Korózs: Yes.]] Honourable Member, this is what your fellow Member has just opposed. So talk to each other. Erika Szűcs [[Lajos Korózs: This does not mean that we leave people without care! The president's gonna ring the bell.]] On September 29, 2008:. By the way, restoring capacity and employment is a European trend, which is confirmed not only by the needs of the economy, but also by the daily experience of all of us. Now hold on, fellow Members, because, after the previous ones, they must distance themselves from their own fellow Members, what is the real expectation of society in the case of more than 400 thousand disabled persons of working age: . This expectation is clear, who is able to work, can and should work, let there be more taxpayers. In the case of 400,000 disabled pensioners, a very radical position was expressed at the time. [[Zoltán Grimlock: But you also sent the one-legged back!]] , honourable Member. As has been said here, we have launched a fair review procedure, which has been extended for two years, precisely to allow everyone to undergo appropriate investigations. [[A lot of doctors just went to prison, didn't they?]] You know that 11 000 people admitted that they were not asking for a review, but that they were returning to the labour market when the first questionnaire was sent. So we've really tried to be as fair, as careful, as thorough as possible, considering everyone's interests. But I think that you will now have to decide whether you are following Mr Varga's position or whether you are following the position of Mr Veres, Mr Korózs, Mr Szűcs and Mrs. Because the two, as I said before, are in opposition and government in stark contrast in the case of MSZP repeatedly. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-06-06-214	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congressman Mátyás Firtl of the KDNP Group.
u2017-06-06-215	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, For the fourth time in Parliament, as an individual Member, I confirm that what you just said, Mr Secretary of State, was meant to be remembered. Of course, you can put things in terms of campaign goals. [[Zoltán Grimlock, pointing to his laptop: Here I read Schmitt Pali, right in front of me!]] But the fact is what the Secretary of State said first. I would like to continue with what no one has said so far, my fellow Members, perhaps Secretary of State, that respect and respect for elderly people is a moral law of our values; they are one of the most important ten commands of human life. Our King Saint Stephen, among the divine and secular commands of country building, survival, development and ascension, mentions, among other things, the respect for faith, respect for one another, and respect for the elderly in addition to forgiveness and honesty. Today's pensioners have had many struggles, they have experienced decades of trying people, communism, change of regime, a period of political, economic, social and technical changes that are constantly and at a very fast pace. They are the teachers of today's active generation, who have a life's work to contribute to shaping the image of our communities, our country today. When we address our retired fellow citizens with respect, we should first of all thank all pensioners from Parliament for their active work over the long decades, for all the things that have contributed to our narrower and wider communities becoming more and stronger. [[Dr. István Józsa: Are you talking about yourself?]] In our environment, we can experience that in the case of many pensioners, retirement does not mean inactivity. That is why we should also appreciate and thank all those who, as pensioners, can be relied upon as indispensable help and support for their families. We must also appreciate the commitment, knowledge, talent and will of all those who are actively involved in the creation of value in retirement communities, passing on knowledge, finding their place, their mission, increasing our communities, strengthening their belongings despite old age. The Government of the Fidesz-KDNP Association will guarantee and protect the value of pensions after 2010 under an agreement with pensioners' organisations. This means that the value of pensions increases every year at least by the rate of inflation. Ladies and gentlemen, given the context of this process, allow me to take a very short detour on the factors that led to the implementation by the Orbán government of the agreement with pensioners and its promise in 2015, contrary to the actions of previous Balliberal governments on pensioners. Our country was threatened by a state failure. As a reminder, in 2010, the Greek example led to this threat to the country, which had been bled out during the period of the global crisis, which was subject to repayment of the IMF loan, to the fact that, in the face of further anticipated constraints, a government following the left-wing government would also have to do a drastic reduction in pensions, and this is the path that should be pursued and this economic policy should continue. But it is important for us that the Orbán government has started legislative and legislative processes, that the restructuring of the systems has launched and succeeded an economic development programme, that it has applied and has made effective a tax policy that, for the sixth year, economic growth has been continuous and unbroken, which exceeds the EU average, we have repaid the IMF loan, that public finances are stable, and that the reduction of public debt is ongoing. In 2018, a 4.3 percent economic growth could be achieved with a 2.4 percent deficit target and inflation. As a result of successful economic recovery, unemployment is currently one of the lowest in Hungary, with continued improvement in economic indicators. Furthermore, family support and the preservation of the real value of pensions are almost unique in Europe. It is clear that the Fidesz-KDNP government has been the only one among the governments of the last 15 years, which, as promised, has protected the purchasing value of pensions by continuously increasing the level of inflation in pensions. [[17.00]] Thus, pensioners are also beneficiaries of developments in domestic macroeconomic processes, because, as has already been said during the budgetary negotiations, the government has promised in 2010 to protect the real value of pensions year after year and retain their purchasing power by adjusting the rate of the pension increase to the inflation planned for that year. In 2018, the government will also achieve a pension increase equal to the rate of inflation, and in 2018 there will be a higher pension increase of 3 percent than this year, as well as a separate government measure, depending on economic growth. The past years have proved that the Orbán government stands by the elderly, and we believe that our pensioners are valuable members of our communities not only through their work so far in the life of Hungarian society, but also in the present. Our pensioners' commitment is also part of what we have achieved during this period, as a result of our joint efforts today, that the results of successful economic policy will also be reflected in the rise, the value of pensions, the rate of replacement, the pension premium. Ladies and gentlemen, It is the government's responsibility to develop a public pension system that is stable, predictable and does not re-enhance sovereign debt. We've created and maintained the balance of the pension fund. In the case of people affected by early retirement but able to work, the government aims to create the opportunity to return to the world of work for those who want to do so. We have introduced the Women's 40, which I would not go into detail, but I would like to say that during these election campaigns we have received a great deal of praise for all of this. As has already been said, nearly 194 thousand people have used it. The increase in GDP, i.e. the already mentioned successful economic policy, is linked to the pension premium, which is due if GDP growth is expected to exceed 3.5 per cent. For the first time this year there is a view of this. From a long range of direct and indirect measures to facilitate the lives of pensioners, if analysed in detail, we can clearly see that there is hardly any layer of pensioner society that would not have been affected in any form. Among the immediate measures, the "Women 40" programme, the amendment of the Btk. to improve the protection of older people, the measures taken in the area of social services and, of course, the holiday programme Erzsébet for 210,000 pensioners. Then we can continue by dealing with what has already been said here by my fellow Member Selmeczi, as a permanent relation to the establishment of the Council of Elders, as an advisory body of the Government, that we are thinking about implementing a new amendment to the establishment of a cooperative of pensioners, which we also want to achieve in some way for those who want to participate actively in this time. There's been a good example of this. Among the indirect measures to improve the living conditions of pensioners, I now mention only one word: in the areas of reduction of costs, family support, waiting lists, screening programmes, job protection action plan, access to the labour market, rehabilitation card, transport benefits, cultural benefits and sports benefits. But it also belongs here, and I would mention the program "Home Gay," which also has a major impact on the situation of pensioners as well as on families. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am not in the habit of quoting from the press in Parliament, but I am doing it now, because we can read speechable titles on completely different portals during the budget negotiations. The pensioners will surely benefit from the government's plans, with the portfolio.hu;, in November, pensioners will be thrown about 24 thousand dollars - index.hu;,, Extra pension increase, wage increase and tax reduction,, daily.hu. We can also conclude from the message of today's debate, honourable Members, that the same can be said: Hungarian pensioners continue to benefit from the government's plans, because the Hungarian pension system will be stable and predictable in the long term. Thank you for your attention as a retired pensioner with a 50-year working relationship and soon to retire, but who has long been working beyond retirement age. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-06-06-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome. We'll get back to work. This is in the form of the opinion of the Government Secretary of State, Secretary of State Major. Here you go.
u2017-06-06-217	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In the Hungarian Parliament, it is always difficult to reveal without emotion, but it is particularly difficult on a subject that affects all of us or, in good times, will affect all of us. Listening to my fellow Members here, I would like to ask you to remember the long decades in which the current state has developed. Allow me to mention only two of the things you have said here. One is that in recent years we have considered it timely to review abnormally high numbers of people in early retirement and disability. My colleague Firtl ended up being retired and retired. I'm 75 years old, and I'm retired. I'm not getting a pension, I'm not getting a pension as a member of the government. [[Mátyás Firtl: Neither do I!]] They told me about the pensions we're taking here. We're not getting our pension, we're not taking it. But what made me mention this was that of these fifty-something years of service, I pulled 38 off Ozd, and I was a part of that when we sent tens of thousands of people from threatening unemployment to a disability pension. Undoubtedly, because of the inertia of the governments at the time, they were trying to solve employment problems and by social means. The consequences of this show the situation in these areas today. They did not result in a temporary situation, but that society had renounced tens of thousands of people, condemning them to a state that neither their leading nor their subsequent lives were justified. So I think that this situation should have been resolved much earlier and that the government that changed this situation should not be condemned. But for what I have asked the President for the opportunity to speak, that is a few numbers which, although not only concern pensioners, but also society as a whole. And if I've allowed myself such a personal sound, then allow me, and I've also asked for the opportunity to say so, because personally, as a member of the government, I've been involved in the implementation of this, and this is the reduction of the rent. The measures you have put into effect on 1 January 2013 and are well-known to you allow me to give you your aggregated figures as proof that the situation is not as black as my colleagues are trying to present it here. According to the statistics of the Statistical Office and of the Energy Office, due to the reductions in electricity, electricity and district heating accounts, retail consumers saved some HUF 818 billion between 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2016. So more than 800 billion forints. The majority was saved by consumers in the electric bill, which paid HUF 396 billion less for this service. [[17.10]] In the case of natural gas, HUF 340 billion was the total savings of residential users, while by reducing the cost of district heating, HUF 82 billion remained for consumers. If we also look at the impact of reducing water, sewer, LPG and waste charges, the total savings of the population between 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2016 amount to HUF 909 billion. During this period, Hungarian families saved HUF 60 billion on water and sewer services, EUR 10 billion on LPG services, HUF 20 billion on waste services, regardless of how old they are, regardless of the family they live in, regardless of who they voted for. Based on the savings facts of 2015, the Hungarian families saved more than 1000 billion HUF between 2013 and the current year, i.e. between May 31, 2017, by calculating HUF 1021 billion. Allow me to devote two sentences to that because it was said here in the speaker's expos, and this is the backlog of the population. Let there be no misunderstanding, for those who have a backlog, it is still a pressing situation, but it does not matter how many tens of thousands of families there are in this austerity and what amount. The reduction of overhead costs has obviously had a positive impact on the development of the outstanding amounts previously accumulated, both the amount of debts and the number of behind-the-counter consumers have decreased significantly in recent years. According to the data of the Energy Office, from 2012 to 2016, the backlogs for electricity beyond 30 days decreased from HUF 31 billion to HUF 16 billion, i.e. by about 48 percent, from 40 billion to 16 billion in the case of gas, by 60 percent, and from 16 billion to 10 billion in the case of district heating, by about 37 percent. In this context, I highlight the number of off-line retail customers, as it is the most brutal intervention of service providers. The number of off-line retail consumers has also decreased significantly. In 2012, a total of 155 thousand consumers were turned off, and in 2016 only - if only this - can be used here; I believe that there were no - 106 thousand consumers, this is more than 30 percent improvement. That is why we consider it to be very important, and therefore I would also like to use the possibility of this political debate day to ensure that, regardless of its social protection, it is in the interest of every member of the Hungarian society to keep the results of the reduction of the rent and to continue it as far as possible. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-218	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We will now return to the Members who have spoken in advance, to which Mr Gyöngyösi Márton, Mr Jobbik, is next. Here you go.
u2017-06-06-219	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I would also like to thank the initiators who are giving us the opportunity to debate, in addition to legislation, matters of such importance as the pension issue, here in the House. On our part, Tamás Sneider explained what Jobbik had in mind about the pension system; I would like to add a thought or two, and I would like to contribute a thought or two to this debate today. First of all, I listened with great interest to or watched the bidding between the socialists and the current governing party about whether Fidesz had taken more money out of the pension system between 8 years ago and 8 years ago between 2002 and 2010. And I listened to Mr. Secretary of State Major with at least this interest, who started with the sentimental idea that we would all be affected or be affected by this question. I myself sometimes, when I look at the current processes, I seriously doubt that, by then, with such current trends, this pension system will be able to produce the amount that would fit me. The whole pension issue requires a comprehensive, complex approach. We are talking about a very comprehensive, complex issue, which, basically, has two conditions for caring for older people. A sustainable and fair pension system requires a healthy number of child births, i.e. demography and a healthy economic environment. There are two extreme situations in today's world, both of which are basically conducive to older care. In the third world, in the developing world, where there is high demography in societies, but there is basically a low economic performance, there is not even a pension system here, but basically a high birth rate is what families provide for their elderly care. On the other hand, in the developed world, according to current trends, there is a very poor demographic situation, but with good economic performance, societies provide high social costs for elderly care and, in this sense, pension systems. However, what has developed in Hungary is a very strange and a bad mix of these two concepts. We are essentially trying to maintain our pension system, alongside poor demographic indicators, poor child birth indicators and poor economic performance, in a system that is fundamentally characterised by declining demography and, in addition, by emigration, and also by a bad economic trend that tries to finance the pension fund with declining real wages. Here, my fellow Member, Mr István Hollik, presented some points that I could basically agree with. The importance of the budget and macro-numbers in maintaining the pension system is fundamentally agreed with this, and it is therefore also commendable to the government that, following irresponsible management, we can look at healthy economic indicators in addition to a relatively stable fiscal policy. This is the world of macro numbers, which is good. But given the number of jobs, however commendable it is that employment and unemployment are basically moving towards zero, the government can basically be blamed for the way and method in which it has improved employment. If employment statistics have improved with the introduction of public work, we do not consider this to be a good method, since public work, for which the government is basically paying wages below the minimum level of living, is basically synonymous with a slave society, since the societies in which wages do not reach the minimum level of living are basically typical of the slave societies, according to the UN's universal declaration of human rights. 600 thousand of our countrymen have left this country, 300 thousand of our countrymen are about to leave this country, which is obviously the result of low wages, and in this respect Hungary's pension system points towards unsustainableness. The Wages Union, the initiative proposed by Jobbik, which also ensures the sustainability of the pension system, is the only way to allow higher wages, higher taxes and higher contributions, which will enable residence, increase birth numbers and economic performance, increase the performance of the real economy and thus ensure the long-term sustainability of the pension system. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[17.20]]
u2017-06-06-220	Thank you very much. The representative of Fidesz, Mr Péter Csizi, is next. Here you go.
u2017-06-06-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to argue with Martin Gyöngyösi before me, but we don't do the bidding. The debate between MSZP and Fidesz is a comparison between the two governments. You're the one who's getting into the bidding, the parties - the LMP, you, the independents - that haven't led this country yet, so it's perfectly natural that we don't have an exact comparison of your governance. But when we talk about the situation of pensioners and compare current governance with previous governance, we do not do it on the basis of a bid, but we look at the facts. We'll look at what happened before our administration, and compare it to the numbers, the measures we've taken ourselves. This is the only way to give a comprehensive picture to the population of Hungary in a debate, and this is the only way in a debate - if we do not get a consensus, or at least - to show a realistic picture to those who know very well that a pension policy is not about what we want to give to pensioners. Well, it is perfectly natural that each politician, each government, has the aim of increasing the support of pensioners, increasing the commitment to pensioners and increasing the positive measures that pensioners can enjoy. But there's still a situation. Governance is influenced by how the ancestors get the country, how the cash register is, to say the least, how it is. Or, as we hear from the socialists many times, this has already been said today from both the pro-government and the opposition side, the socialists under the control of a coercion under their government. Everything that's negative, everything that's done damage, let's say, to the elderly, to the pensioners, is now well-liked to be mentioned by socialist representatives as having done it under an external pressure. For the first time in my life, perhaps, but I am trying to accept this argument, and I am trying to look at the period before 2010 by accepting that you have done all your actions in the middle of the economic crisis, the financial crisis. I'm trying to accept that you took a month's pension, the 13th month's pension, because there was an economic crisis in the world. I am trying to accept that the reason why the retirement age had to be increased from 62 to 65 years is because the financial sector has collapsed overseas. I also accept that, although I find this difficult to understand, but somewhere I can even accept that it was the global economic crisis that caused the real value of pensions to drop significantly by 4 percent between 2006 and 2010. I even accept that the measure taken by the 2008 Gyurcsány government, which reduced the start-up pensions by 8 percent, was also due to the global economic crisis, although it is difficult to accept this because the crisis started in the second half of 2008, and this decision was taken first, but I accept that I have the greatest goodwill towards you on this subject. And I also accept that the visitation fee had to be introduced under duress, because of the global crisis, although it may make the odds a little worse and make my acceptance worse, that you introduced it on 15 February 2007, but it is okay to be so picky, if all measures have been taken under external pressure, then it is certain that the visitation fee has also been introduced as a result. Although I find it difficult to accept why the visit fee had to be pressed for HUF 220 million, why the first visit fee for 733 thousand people had to be spent on communication about the introduction of the visit fee, including the extra support paid by seniors and pensioners. Because there was an extra grant for the visitation fee, basically asking people who, by the way, spent their whole lives paying for the various parts of social security. We may even be able to accept that the 59 percent decline in money that marked your governance between 2002 and 2010 is also due to a certain external impact, the great financial and economic crisis. However, I find it hard to imagine and accept that more than a dozen overhead increases have all been made to external impact. Although I can accept the external impact, as you have allowed foreign companies to enter the market where there is no competition, otherwise, where the population is vulnerable, including pensioners, and you have allowed these companies to set the price at their convenience, but this must no longer be blamed for the global economic crisis. But let's not get into the details so much, let's accept that in the middle of the global economic crisis, you have had a very difficult situation. And here we see the difference between the two governments, the fundamental ideology and policy of governance before 2010 and after 2010. You think, as the international financial world has thought, and international policy has also thought that the economic crisis - in its name it is economic, so it has something to do with the big companies - and the financial crisis - has to pay people. You represented the policy until 2010 that the mistakes of the international financial market, his collapse, should be paid by Hungarian people in proportion to the size of Hungary. You have represented practically the same policy as the IMF in Greece, where you have reached the point where pension cuts and retirements have been put to the fore in the case of pensioners. Thank God you didn't run the country in 2010, because if you had won in 2010, this process would have continued. What they started, the negative effects of which were felt by pensioners, would have practically gone through, including the IMF agreement, and including a number of measures that we can no longer imagine today. Now, these are the facts that cannot be debated, the difference between the two policies is constantly visible from 2010. It is possible to argue that our crisis management is good or bad, it is possible to argue that we were lucky or not lucky - this is a funny debate, but it can even be done - but it is an indisputable fact that there is a huge difference between the two positions. The socialist position wanted to make people pay for the loss of the financial market, paid it for years, and we thought that it was not for people to be taken away from because the financial market was wrong. That is why we have introduced separate taxes to multinational companies, and that is why we have also introduced separate taxes to banks, and that is why we have been able to say today, at the hearing of the 2018 budget, that we can have the critical period behind us. That's why we were able to reduce the overhead costs, because, as I said before, we think that where there is no competition in the market, there should be price regulation, so we have 25 percent less gas, district heating and electricity, which could save up to HUF 170,000 per year for an average family and up to HUF 100,000 per year for an average pensioner family. That is why we believe that VAT should not be increased where you did it, but the VAT on basic foods, the VAT on pigs, fish, poultry and eggs, including the VAT on milk, should be reduced step by step as the productivity of the economy permits. [[17 .30]] We think that we are not going to allow cartels, and, unlike previous practice, we have been able to save significant costs by introducing blinds for the reduction of drug prices, such as, for example, for retirement families, which could not have happened at your time. And thanks to all these measures, the relative income poverty among pensioners has decreased by one third in the last six years. Ladies and gentlemen, Today we have reached a point where we can ensure in terms of economic performance not only that pensioners' subsidies increase, pensions increase, and otherwise their real costs are reduced. After all, there may have been bigger increases in pensions before, but at that time, along with significant inflation, we felt that what the socialists gave with one hand had been taken away several times during the price increases with the other's hands. So we are always in the position that we need to step by step what the economy allows us to do. In such a way that, of course, the impact of economic performance is felt in each area. For example, we have launched the job protection action plan from January 2013. After all, it was necessary to protect the jobs of people who would reach retirement age within a decade. Technically, people over the age of 55 make up more than 40 percent of those involved in the job protection action plan. This financial support, which reduces labour costs for employers, gives security to a number of workers who could otherwise have lost employment in a similar environment before, say, 2010. This programme protects seven out of ten people who are about to retire, as is the purpose of the Travel to the labour market programme, among other things, to increase the employability of those over 50, so that those over 50 stay in the world of work until at least the retirement age. To this end, the government will spend 214 billion forints in Budapest and 17.8 billion forints in Pest County, as well as, of course, EU funds. Overall, it can be said that by the end of April 2017, 60 500 people were included in the programme, people who were otherwise in danger of having jobs. Our goal is to keep as many people in the world of work as possible. Anyone who thinks his strength, time, energy allows him to use his experience. After all, the more people working in Hungary today, and the higher the wages, the bigger the register that we can spend to raise pensions. So when in the public sector, teachers, soldiers, specialists, health professionals, we advertise wage-raise programs, when we make a 5-50 percent wage increase, it's all perpetuated, but it favors the pensioners, it strengthens the financial part, the cash register from which we pay pensions. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-06-222	Thank you very much. I ask Congresswoman Schmuck to have patience and understanding, so feel free to sit down, because you cannot know that on behalf of the Government, State Secretary Czibere has asked for the floor - I have now betrayed it. Here you go. It's your turn.
u2017-06-06-223	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to give a very short answer to Mr Gyöngyösi's speech. I think we agree that demography and employment policy together can ensure pension policy, the sustainability of the pension system. I think we also agree that this is an extremely complex issue, and that old age security, its predictability, cannot be reduced to retirement alone, but has many other factors. I think it's totally obvious. And the fact that a healthy, sustainable economic environment, the recovery of public finances, has all contributed to this predictable pension system. That's where I got my head when he was talking about slave society in public employment. It is important to see that the system of public employment in Hungary today is a very important tool for many people, for tens of thousands of people, to rip out of that long-term poverty and long-term unemployment, in which they have been forced to spend a great deal of time. So this is a very important social policy instrument with tangible results in each social statistics indicator, such as the poverty indicator. It gives people a legal white income. I think basically, if you go through villages, settlements, you can see the trail. I was in Cigandon two weeks ago, I was in Cserdi last week, today we discussed the situation in Tiszabura, the situation in Tiszabura, the change that is tangible and palpable everywhere, the change that rationally organised public employment means. Of course, we need a leader for all of this. We need a corps, we need a mayor to put the catch-up programs together locally, and an integral part of that is public employment. But talking about creating a slave society, I think that's a very strong exaggeration. Obviously, there could be mayoral abuse, other things, so we have to make the announcements and investigate them. But in itself, the fact that the rate of inactivity in the Hungarian situation today was extremely high, and it had to be brought down and reduced from there, the public employment has a very important role to play in this, with the government constantly stressing that public employment is not an end goal, it is not a value taken in itself, it is not a goal in itself, it is a means of temporary transit. Let me refer to the March package of programmes adopted by the Government, which envisages opening up to the primary labour market and making it more flexible for the public employment system. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-06-224	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP, please.
u2017-06-06-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, In order to create a fair and equitable pension system, I summarise the proposals of the LMP in five points. These apply to the preservation of the value of pensions, to the provision of extra assistance to pensioners living in poverty, to the possibility of working alongside a pension, and to the need to encourage self-care and to talk about general wage increases. Firstly, pension increases should be calculated on the basis of pension inflation, according to the LMP, for the preservation of the value of pensions and a fair increase in pensions. Pensioner inflation is quite different from general inflation, since it takes into account the consumer basket of pensioners. We know that medicines, general foods, and overhead are a large item in the cost of pensioners, and that the price increase is different from that of the general one. In addition, the possibility of taking into account the current real wage increase in addition to inflation in annual pension increases should be considered. If the situation of the economy really improves and wages increase, pensioners should also feel that their relative situation should not deteriorate. And not only should the government set a target premium if GDP rises more than 3.5 per cent, but pensions also benefit from economic growth if it is less than 3.5 per cent. We also recommend that this year's increase be brought forward by the government from November. We find it unacceptable that the government simply sits on pensioners' money. Pensioners should already pay the 1 percent required for 2.6 percent inflation. It simply doesn't make sense that when pensioners need that money more, the government sits on it and refuses to give this money to pensioners first. [[17.40]] According to the LMP, pensioners living in poverty need extra help, and we believe that the possibilities of this need to be explored. Obviously, a differentiated pension increase, such as a lump sum increase, would be more proportionate, a higher increase for pensioners receiving low benefits, but in fact, it could be differentiated by changing percentages. Obviously this is a matter of reconciliation and details need to be looked at, but a kind of pension supplement could also be introduced for pensioners living below the minimum living age. According to the LMP, the State could support municipalities in providing social assistance to pensioners living in poverty to cover their housing costs, bills and pharmaceutical costs. We see that the current subsidies are insufficient, so let's just think about how many people living alone are getting cold in their own homes. In addition, the amount of the minimum old-age pension should be increased to HUF 50,000, as the LMP has already proposed. It is also simply incomprehensible that the minimum old-age pension does not rise for ten years next year, 28 500 forints, of which you can only starve to death. Furthermore, the system of disability pensions and early retirement must be restored in a more stringent but equitable form. The disabled, physically unable to work, should be able to retire flexibly, obviously with reduced pay. Our third package of proposals concerns the possibility of working alongside a pension. The government must abolish forced retirement and the ban on double benefits in the public sector, do not punish those who want to continue working as pensioners, they have also earned the pension, they have been entitled to it, they have paid the contribution for decades. Pre-age beneficiaries should also be allowed to work without limitation. Under the current rules, pre-age beneficiaries, beneficiaries of service allowances and former early retirement pensioners must not exceed the annual envelope, which is equal to one and a half times the minimum wage per month, and if they reach this amount, they will be suspended for the rest of the year. According to the LMP, this restrictive regulation should be abolished. Furthermore, do not punish people who are working disabled, and there are particularly strict criminal penalties for people who are receiving disability and rehabilitation care. If their earnings exceed one and a half times the minimum wage for three consecutive months, they shall cease to be entitled to benefits. This already very low supply condemns disabled people with higher expenses to poverty. The restriction must be abolished. We consider it important to encourage work on pensions, which has a number of means. I will now list some of these: flexible working hours, part-time work, more days off for retired workers or the development of digital skills for retired workers, thinking in addition to active ageing, sensitizing employers, recognising companies or strengthening intergenerational solidarity, voluntary programmes, Contemporary assistance programmes, helping older people to help their elderly, caring for older people or the possibility of flexible retirement. Our fourth package of proposals is to encourage self-care and not make it impossible. Yes, it is important for the government to account for private pension contributions and to fulfill its promise to introduce the system of individual pension accounts. This alone would facilitate more conscious preparation for retirement, saving. Reduce taxation of pension savings payments and start preparing a comprehensive reform of the pension system with the involvement of relevant social organisations. A pillar of the future pension system should be the self-care pillar, according to the LMP. Our fifth package concerns the general wage increase, which could be achieved through the introduction of a multi-key tax system. Fair wages must be ensured so that as few people leave the country and go abroad to take up work and family there. With the multi-key tax system, not only the smallest wages would rise, but the wages of everyone who earns less than a million forints a month would be guaranteed. On the other hand, public work should be gradually replaced by training in the labour market, local job creation programmes, support for small and medium-sized enterprises. It also includes the need for comprehensive wage arrangements in the public sector, rather than the procrastination of non-retirement allowances and wage increases. These resources would be available in the budget, only you would have to vote in favour of the LMP's additional 300 billion amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, The general wage increase is important not only for the pensioners of the future, but also for the elderly pensioners who do not stay in Hungary without their children and grandchildren; this is even more tragic than having to live on a low pension. At the end of last week, I attended an outing, I met pensioners, and an elderly woman told me that she had three children, eleven grandchildren, and all three children and eleven grandchildren are abroad, and here she is with her sick husband, with whom she can no longer travel abroad. So in these cases, it is not only that low wages will make pensions low and they cannot make a living, but also that elderly people in Hungary will stay without their children, and children will try to earn a living abroad. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I very much hope and hope that you will receive a great deal of the LMP proposals and take them into account when changing the pension system. Thank you.
u2017-06-06-226	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, We now have two-minute comments, which happens to be one at the moment, because there can only be one from one faction, so it is next to Congressman Nándor Gúr. Here you go.
u2017-06-06-227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. While full-fledged pensioners have now been out of the private pension fund for the seventh year, those who have produced 20 years of service may also be in a position to take a pension of HUF 28 500, while EUR 3000 billion has been cancelled while the gold reserves have been liquidated, while the government debt has increased from 20 000 billion to 28 000 billion - this increase of 8000 billion is about the amount of payment for the full pension of three years - while 600 thousand people have already left this country, another 400 thousand people are planning to leave this country, every sixth-seventh child of Hungarian mothers will be born abroad. It is then possible to think about what will happen to the security of pensions if you govern: obviously pensions do not have security in addition to your governance. We are behind in wages from Europe, but even from the Visegrád Four; with the minimum wage - I say only to Gabriella Selmeczi - what happens is that the gross increases to the sky, but really from the charges that increase from 32,000 to 73,000, between 2010 and 2016, of course, the incoming resources are collected by the government and scattered among the buddies. Well, the result is that there are small salaries, small pensions, even smaller increases as a result, vulnerability, poverty is growing, in many cases people get to the stage of poverty, for some people everything, for others nothing. One more thing: in addition to all of this, since much has been removed, full flexibility has been removed, so there is a real need for flexible retirement, because after 40-45 years of service, people can work in public parks for 53 thousand forints, or a good pre-retirement allowance for 44 thousand forints. No, it's humiliating, it's unworthy after 40 to 45 years of service! Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-06-06-228	Thank you. We will return to the Members who have spoken in advance. The representative of Fidesz, Mr.István Happy, is next. Here.
u2017-06-06-229	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Who are we talking about today? About our own parents, our grandparents and our relatives. [[17.50]] I think that we should remember them in this tone and know that they are the ones who have lived, acted and worked for us. They shed their blood, tears, and sweat to give us a home, a country, a future. We should speak in this tone, and we should take it this way, and they cannot be the ones who, if this country has any difficulties, should act as under the Liberálbolshevik governments, that they always draw the short straw. [[Lajos Korózs: What?!]] Why, of course, do pensioners always draw the short straw under the Liberálbolshevik governments? [[The intervention of Anita Herring.]] Well, that's because they're the ones you know two things about very well. One thing is that if they are brought to government - that is what history proves, and I will tell you - in this country, in an interesting way, as MEP László Varga put it, there will be a global economic crisis. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] And now I'd like to give you some historical examples. In 1919, during the first Liberálbolshevik government, Béla Kun even tried to sell the Holy Crown in a mean way, because obviously there was still a global economic crisis. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: What's wrong with this? He's on something.]] Then, in 48, they were successfully re-steered, and what happened, please? He even had his men sweep the attic, and of course he didn't look at the pensioners or anyone else. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: This took something.]] What happened under Kádár? Interestingly, the global economic crisis came again, and thanks to this, the country managed to take out huge loans, and then, of course, they failed in 88-89. Well, the change of regime came, we should have thought that the new change of name would change the liberal Bolsheviks - now they are called social liberals, of course, some, but still libertarian Bolsheviks - what happened, please? Gyula Horn is on the helm. As a result, the global economic crisis has, of course, come again. That's what made the pensioners sabotage them again with the Bokros package. Not just them, but unfortunately, they didn't deserve them. Of course, their next government started with Péter Medgyessy, who successfully started, and managed to spend the money that the first Orbán government left in the cash register under barely a rabbit's tail of government, so he didn't hurt the pensioners. It was the only one. But this government didn't last long, Ferenc Gyurcsány arrived, then Gordon Bajnai, and their luggage came, because the global economic crisis came again. What can be deducted from this? We must not vote for the Social Liberals, i.e. the Liberálbolsheviks, because if they come to government, there will be an immediate global economic crisis and immediately the Hungarian pensioners will be sabotaged and the Hungarian people will be sabotaged. And what fantastic measures they could take during their last governance, which I hope will last for at least two hundred years: between 2006 and 10 we managed to reduce the purchasing value of pensions by 4 percent, because the global economic crisis came with them. In 2008, they reached the point where they managed to bring in a pension scheme with a starting pension of minus 8 percent. They immediately took 8 percent. In 2006, because of the election year, there were fantastic promises, 14th month's pension. Then, of course, it only lasted until the election was won. It was then that Ferenc Gyurcsány's honesty attack came, and he confessed that we lied, night, morning, evening, noon, always, as they always lied in history, and as a result, not 14th month's pension was not taken, but even 13th. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: You promised me the 14th month.]] In fact, the retirement age was raised rapidly from 62 to 65 years. And, of course, because there was a global economic crisis, they said that they immediately introduced a visitation fee, hospital allowances, and just to help multinational companies and to prove what a crisis there was, 12 times they increased the cost of overhead. As we know, all pensioners are affected by overhead costs. But what is the other characteristic of the socialists? 'Cause that's one of the things that's always been a global crisis. But what if they're not on the government? Well, then, please, they always get enlightened. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Oh, my God!]] And they immediately begin to say what they had done before, the opposite. It's 13th, 14th month's pension, and it's a different kind of pension, and we're giving people more and more to pensioners. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó's intervention.]] So it seems that when they're on the government, they take everything, they squeeze everything, because they think there's always a global economic crisis, and when there's someone else on the government and it's a little better for the country, they promise everything. Please, that's why you can't believe them, because promises only go when you're sitting in opposition benches. I hope I'm telling you, for at least another 200 years, they won't be in a position to re-scratch pensioners, as you've always done. Well, here are our good friends. [[Interviews from Jobbik and MSZP: Na!]] They basically say that they did not vote against the retirement of women after 40 years of employment. They're right, they didn't vote against it. But they didn't vote in favour. Just like they didn't vote in favour of the constitutional amendment so we could close the borders [[Uproar, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] And let's say illegal immigrants shouldn't come here to take away the pensions of domestic pensioners and upset the social system. So you do not vote or abstain only when it comes to something better for the Hungarian people. Pension increases are not voted on, constitutional amendments are not voted on, the new pension law is not voted on, the budget is not supported, which, say, brings improvements. So you always do not support what is good for this country and good for the Hungarian people, but obviously, as opposition parties, you must think that this is their job. I would like everyone to acknowledge that, in order to appreciate pensioners, we must always group as much financial resources on pensions as the economy can afford not to take out loans and put the country in a position that social Bolsheviks have always done or liberal shopsevics have always done in order to bankrupt the economy, the country is in bankruptcy, and pensioners must be the first to take something from. We have seen examples of this in the world. We can hear the example of Greece, where I don't know how many times pensions are paid, there is a similar government there, I imagine, like yours was in Hungary. Again, I hope you won't have the opportunity to take away pensions for at least 200 years. I'm asking everyone to value the pensioners. I myself go to a lot of retirement events, because there are a lot of retirement clubs in my district, and we always talk with respect about trying to give as much as possible to pensioners, the government. This requires good economic policy, which we now have. This will enable you to pay a pension premium, and this will allow you to give more respect to pensioners, and I think this is the way forward. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-230	Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP.
u2017-06-06-231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would have been poorer if I hadn't listened to this speech today, that's all I would have said. I would like to refer some of the data of the HCSO to Mr.István Happy, since I am going to talk about poverty figures. The relative income poverty rate among the overall population was 14.1 percent in 2010 and 14.5 percent in 2015. The relative income poverty rate among people over 65 was 4.9 per cent in 2010 and 6.8 per cent in 2015. Relative poverty gap in proportion to the overall population is 18.2 percent in 2010 and 18.8 percent in 2015. Relative poverty gap among people over 65 is 10.2 per cent in 2010 and 14.3 per cent in 2015. Relative income poverty rate for single-member households over 65 years of age is 8.6 percent in 2010 and 9 percent in 2015. Relative income poverty rate among pensioners is 4.6 percent in 2010 and 7.1 percent in 2015. I could not give you one number in which the indicators would have improved, my fellow Members. But we can also see it, and we're talking about KSH, even though the government has been working on it to change the methodology, even not to disclose data that was common before it for decades. Again, it is clear from KSH data that the number of deaths has increased significantly in recent years. In winter, the influenza epidemic is being committed, and in summer the heat is causing the extremely high mortality rate among the elderly in Hungary. It is added that this is also closely linked to the state of health, not only that there is a flu epidemic. In neighbouring countries there is also a flu outbreak, but we can see that as many people in Hungary have not died in the last few years. [[18.00]] Here we can also talk about the high number of colds or cold deaths, though I might add that we can't see clearly in this either, because if someone goes to the hospital and dies of complications, such as pneumonia, it doesn't count as cold, it goes into other statistics. And year after year, we see that things are getting worse, and not only do homeless people freeze on the streets, but even needy old people in their own apartments, cold in their unheated apartments in the winter. Here it should be said that in recent years, every year, if we look at 2009 as a percentage of GDP, the left-wing government spent 22.4 percent on social benefits, which went down to 19.9 percent in the next half decade. While the government has already spent more than double the budget itself, it has continuously reduced expenditure to the social care system over the years, and this is the case in the 2018 budget. It should be noted here that we discussed the 2018 budget a few weeks ago, and the House will vote on it next week; well, his mother wouldn't recognize the original budget. Although I add that we see family support measures announced, then Mihály Varga announces that what Viktor Orbán has announced is not covered, but does not need to be covered, and then one week later Mihály Varga says that, oh, we have another HUF 150 billion. It is ridiculous and unacceptable to have a country's budget drawn up like this. By the way, it is clear that we have confirmed that there will be a specific election budget for the '18 budget, if we can even see what will be in it today. Since 2008, the minimum pension has remained unchanged, which is terrible because a lot of benefits are calculated from the minimum pension, so if you look at the child or the law. It was you who abolished housing support, which was a major financial aid to about 500,000 families. In recent years, the government has not increased the level of public health care by one forint, and even in 2015 it stopped - along with several aids I was talking about - fair health care. [[Imre Horváth: Beer Factory!]] A lot of people have talked before me about the fact that it is increasingly difficult to get into nursing homes in Hungary today for people in need, and this is also the government that has introduced the possibility of asking for a serious amount of money so that pensioners can enter the care system, and if the pensioner cannot pay it, children can be collected through the parenting institution. They're referring to their basic granite law, which we don't even know how many times they've changed in the last few years. Of course, there's a sentence in there that a parent has an obligation to support a child, and a child has an obligation to support his parents. We fully agree with that, but this was already put in the Fundamental Law with an ulterior motive, because no one thinks that you did not already think about how Hungarian families would be sabotaged at the time. I also said in the debate that it was Mr State Secretary, although I would like to add that it would be very good for Minister to come into Parliament sometimes and listen to a debate like this, and also to the members of the government, so let's be honest, István Happy said here how important pensioners are, and then there are three sitting in the benches. KDNP doesn't exist anyway, they've been gone a few minutes, but there's only three of you here. I tell you frankly, when you talk about how pensioners should be valued, I would like to join my fellow Member, Mr Schmuck Erzsébet. You know, Nándor Gúr has also said today that about 600,000 people have left this country, and I refer to the data of KSH. The next 370 thousand people want to leave this country in a short time. In this country, society will be created by people who are slowly needy, single and old. Although I might add that we can also observe in the countryside now that the parents themselves are getting up, leaving everything behind because a pensioner told me that he couldn't forgive the Fidesz government for taking it away from him so that he could love me. They took it away from him so that he could love his children, his grandchildren, and they took it away from him so that they could love him, because everyone in his family is abroad. Even though you're shaking your head, Secretary of State Cseresnyés, sometimes it would be nice for you to look around and see what's going on in this country. [[László Teleki: Shame! Dr. Attila Tilki: We are individual representatives!]] The other is: they are now trying to beat a law through Parliament, of course, they will vote on retired social cooperatives, how to drive pensioners back into the world of work. First we tried to get them out of the world of work, and now we're trying to get them back. You know, our country looks like the granddaughter and grandma and grandpa are gonna be packing stuff at Tesco because there's no man in this country who can get a job. That's not the answer! We've told you several times that this is not the solution. We need payable wages, we need to give people pay normally, not exploit them, as you have done in the last eight years, we need to recreate the code of normal work, because what we have now, I think that everything can be called, but the code of work, and we need to get those young people to come home. But to do so, we need an appropriate economic policy, an appropriate education policy, an appropriate social policy, and if that is all there, we can talk about how this country could function normally. I think that we will have the opportunity to do so in 2018, and we will have the opportunity to disappoint Mr István Happy, that your governance will be over in 2018, and that the situation of pensioners will also have to be restored. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-06-06-232	Thank you very much. State Secretary Czibere has again spoken on behalf of the government. Here you go.
u2017-06-06-233	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and However, I would like to say a few things about this speech. The first issue is poverty rates, relative income poverty rates. When interpreting the 2010 data, it should be seen that this is part of the legacy. Why didn't you mention the figures for 2012 and 2013? If you look at it, all the social statistics, the deprivation indexes and the relative income poverty rates mentioned by you [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I know.]] and even the poverty gap, so the poverty depth indicator has improved trendily since 2012, while the country [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: And still worse than before 2010.]] In parallel, it was not indebted at the same time. For the past 40 years, we can now go back to the period before the change of regime, the terms, the periods in Hungarian social policy in which the rate of poverty has increased significantly, in all cases the country has gone in parallel with the debt of public finances. That's right. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Because he is not in debt now, is he?]] This is the first time since 2012, when the deprivation index, the income poverty indicator and the cumulative indicators have improved significantly in parallel, while the number of the most deprived has decreased from 450 thousand to 185 thousand. So we think that when we talk about how the poverty rate has changed, we cannot ignore the fact that in the last three years the level of poverty has also decreased, the depth of poverty has also decreased, how poor the poor are, and all of this with public finances in order and not swimming away. Morally, ethically, this is an extremely important requirement to alleviate poverty in such a way that it is not paid by our grandchildren. I think that this should be a very important moral, ethical principle, and I think, for the last 40 years, this is the first time that this dual responsibility, the dual task, on the one hand, the mitigation of poverty, and on the other hand, the creation of this public finances background could be achieved simultaneously with a strict fiscal policy and the recovery of the economy. Therefore, the interpretation of these numbers is important. The other question is the question of unheated. I think that, when she talks about this, it must also be taken into account that, in the context of the 2015 aid reform, we have given the municipalities the opportunity to regulate the regulation on financial aid for the reduction of housing poverty between municipal aid titles. The ex post investigations show that 90 percent of the municipal regulations were incorporated, 90 percent of the rules on compensation for housing problems were incorporated into municipal regulations, and the government raised the available municipal aid register from 30 billion to 35 billion, and there was a year in which this did not even run out. [[18.10]] So we think that the government will give all the resources of municipal aid to the municipalities in order to address this issue, and as I promised here in the House, we have a working group a few weeks ago, which will make a recommendation, consisting of experts, on what protocol for cold cases should be examined in the future. I think that we should thank the members of society for the fact that in this harsh, cold winter, which was the current crisis in January, Hungarian society moved as one, and we saw signs of solidarity not only towards the homeless but also towards the elderly, lonely people, which is very encouraging, I think. Many times the police, family workers, municipalities, and vigilantes have succeeded in preventing cold cases, and this is something to be thanked for. The third issue that I wanted to touch on is a reply to Mrs Schmuck, because she mentioned that wages do not include a bonus in the pension. He's undercover. Part of the pension acquisition in the social field - I mention my own area - is the social sector wage supplement, which we have raised every year and which, together with the increase in the minimum wage, has achieved a significant increase this year. Today, I was in Kiskunhalas, in that institution about 20 percent of the average wage increase - calculated - from December to January. So I think that the impact of these two together is a very strong impact and that it will be incorporated into the pension - I think it is important to reassure workers in the social field - so it is a period of entitlement. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-234	We will return to your speeches. Congressman Attila Tilki, Fidesz, please.
u2017-06-06-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As I was preparing for the speech, on one of the Internet sites I found: Lajos Korózs, a great expert and passionate defender of pension and social affairs. At first, I thought that this news was on some liberal side, because it could gain a proper, sarcastic meaning, but in fact, on the contact.hu side, they probably thought that Lajos Korózs was a passionate defender of retirement matters; and he left the meeting room equally passionately - [[László Teleki: It's on television!]] while Mrs. Bangón mentioned who was here and who wasn't, Lajos Korózs left the room passionately, as did Mrs. Bangón, who spoke earlier. [[Anita Herring: There are three of you in the room!]] So much for credibility. With our fellow Member Bangóné, we will never forget that - credibility, believe me, during the elections is a central issue - when Gyula Horn, your prime minister, said that because of the Orbán-Năstase agreement 23 million Romanians will stream here and work, then the poster of that campaign was your fellow Member. He probably played his credibility here for a lot of Hungarian and retired people. But what did Mr Korózs say in the campaign in 2010? You showed it in advertising, so the MSZP. If Fidesz will accept that women with 40 years of work can retire, men will have to work until the age of 70 or longer, because only by paying them would they be able to finance early retirement benefits. That's probably why you didn't support what we did, so that after 40 years, women could retire, honoring the fact that they raised a child in addition to the work. It's just as shady as the MSZP, so is Jobbik. I looked at their Radical Change programme, which he used to show at every speech of his fellow Member Novák, and he said that he was already in the program, and Fidesz took it from their program. True, the Fore Novák has already been blown out of Parliament by the wind, but in their Radical Change programme, we read on page 33: by transforming the pension system, we invest in new funds for retirement, which would encourage childbearing directly create generations of responsibility for each other. We might even agree on that. But let's see what's on page 34. The socially beneficial sacrifice of mothers who are raising and working with children must be recognised by the state, so we provide a pension allowance for mothers. What happened? You have not voted for the retirement of women with 40 years of employment. Therefore, Radical change in Jobbik; the meaning of the word "radical" is thorough, profound, but it is likely to have a slightly different interpretation with you, because it probably means that suddenly, which is important for us, as we try to gain power, we form our opinions according to what we think. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks: Is it okay to lie? Are you a line man? Aren't you ashamed?]] Suddenly you are now cooperating with the socialists, you are the ones who, in cooperation with Soros, have decided not to vote on it, you have not voted to stop the migratory pressure. So, gentlemen of the right, believe me, people are here - as individual Members - because we have a lot of individual Members, you have only one individual MEP; we are meeting with our constituents, we are talking to our constituents, unfortunately you are not doing that. Congressman Gyöngyösi spoke of slave labor in connection with public employment. Congressman Gyöngyösi, if you would like to visit right-wing mayors, such as Tuzsér, in my constituency, you can see what the town Tuzsér has achieved with the employment of Roma people. But what would we expect if Vice-President Sneider last spoke about in the debate on EU aid why we are renovating castles in a deprived environment, when the local population, where there are Gypsies in the majority, has a completely different interest. And then Tuzsér, where there's a better leader, where there's a significant number of gypsies, what do you want? He's trying to renovate the Lónyay Castle. [[Tamás Sneider: Luxury mansion?]] So it would be nice to visit at least the party mates and see the party mates. What I wanted to talk to you about, and I would like to talk about, is the impact of the reduction of the rent on the lives of pensioners. I don't quote KSH data, but every pensioner who doesn't pay his rent by transfer sees exactly how much he has saved since the introduction on 1 January 2013. I'm talking about a family in Nyíregyháza who live in a garden house, one parent with a higher education, and the other with a secondary education, in an ordinary family home. Since 1 January 2013, HUF 103 350 has been saved in electricity, HUF 254 500 in gas, HUF 16 500 in water and HUF 7230 in waste, so the savings of this pensioner family since the reduction of the rent have been HUF 381 580. We recall that when the socialists were in the government, we had the highest price of gas and the price of electricity was the second largest in the EU Member States. And the sentence was also not forgotten by pensioners - believe me, they did not forget - when your party partner, Ildikó Lendvai, said slowly, so that everyone could understand: I say slowly that you too will understand that there will be no increase in gas prices. And what happened? Gas prices have increased in series and continuously. Believe me, pensioners living in small towns have a clear view of their accounts and know exactly what the Fidesz-KDNP government can do to reduce their fees and what they owe to them in the area of VAT reduction. It probably should not be said that we should reduce it more and why we did not reduce it, because I remember the time when the MSZP said that there would be no VAT increase, and then first they reduced it, and then they increased the VAT. So believe me, when we're in the settlements, it's always about credibility. In Parliament, it may be possible to say something completely different than what is happening in reality, but people perceive it precisely. [[Anita Herring: That's for sure!]] I am a Member of Parliament in an ageing area, where there are many pensioners. We don't draw pensioners, we don't draw a pension card before an election. The pensioners, because they deserve it - because they deserve it, because they have done a lot for the country, each in his own territory, in schools, as a pastor and in any occupation. We keep talking to them and constantly trying to help them with their problems. And there's more of us in this room who used to be mayors. So don't tell me this government is socially insensitive. Believe me, what you're talking about is child poverty - I'd like to invite you, see what the children say after four meals in small towns and what the parents say. It may be different in Transdanubia, but in the settlements in East Hungary, when it comes, Member, I can show you a settlement where the local Roma population says that they are very happy about the social catering that we, the government, provide them. [[18.20]] We've been talking about housing subsidies, Congresswoman Bango, believe me, we've been with people for seven or eight years. In cooperation with county disaster protection, the mayor of each settlement will make sure that there are enough firewood in the winter - we also introduced the firewood program - and we will make sure that if a person still has little firewood, it will not be a problem. I can talk about my area, and in my area, in the last seven years, no man has been fortunately frozen. And believe me, we think so responsibly, and we are so responsible to pensioners, and we do not raise or pick up a pension card at the beginning of elections or near elections. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-236	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I am pleased and honored to inform you that the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party of Parliament has written a letter to the President of this House. It is my duty to present this: Mr President. Regulation No 10/2014 on certain house rules ANNEX II 24th parliamentary resolution 37. § 6 of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party on the measures necessary for the establishment of a fair and equitable pension system V/15693. 20 minutes of the remaining time frame for the Fidesz-Hungarian Citizens' Association Group on Tuesday, 6 June 2017. With all due respect, Péter Harrach is a faction leader. This was my duty to explain. Congratulations to the Fidesz faction for the time earned. Now, the representative of the Jobbik Group, Mr Tamás Pintér, may come next. Here.
u2017-06-06-237	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In the last few hours, listening to the Fidesz speeches, it may have proved to us that by misinterpreting the figures and by distorting the facts, they spoke very brilliantly, but if the Member before me has said how sensitive they are in society, then perhaps the three examples of life have proved to you what a serious problem they have caused many people in recent years by abolishing the early retirement allowance. The other day, I met a firefighter who was about to retire, who told me that he spent his whole life saving people's lives and serving the community. Well, unfortunately, his health went on, and he couldn't run up the ladder so fast or lift the hose because of his old age, and that's why, or because the early retirement pension was abolished, he was forced to spend the rest of his days as a doorman in the fire department. But let's look at health care. I also recently met an older nurse in her 50s who told me that her joints were weakened, her wrists were constantly sore, and that she needed constant care, and that she should also raise and wash patients with severe pain. Well, he'd enjoy his early retirement too, but he can't do that either. And then another example of the private sector: In the case of ironworks in Dunaújváros, a lot of people have to do serious physical work there, and in that serious physical work, unfortunately, in their old age, these people have very serious health damage. I've met an older gentleman who's been working at the iron mill for many years, but he still can't retire with early retirement because the system won't allow it. Because of her medical condition, she needs to see a doctor constantly and to be treated constantly. In addition, you need to do physical work. You might want to mention these disturbing cases, but I think it might be unnecessary, because you're not so interested. This is demonstrated by the fact that this unblessed state has not yet been restored. Unfortunately, by the way, you don't care if a man is sick and retired. What effect it has on our health insurance system in the future, we can't even predict that. But maybe you don't even care about how you can get a job before you retire. Well, I'll tell you what, it doesn't. Because people in such an unfortunate situation are sick, they don't get a job anywhere in old age. Unfortunately, you are not interested in this, nor are you interested in the fact that the trade unions had already drawn up a plan in 2015 to resolve this, which would ease the current rigid and bad regulations. This includes forward-looking measures that would continuously examine workers on the basis of medical parameters. It also includes the fact that workers who have become unfit for a given job must and can be employed elsewhere. If training is required, it will be provided by the State, and the State will contribute to it. It also includes the need to make jobs interested, to continuously improve working conditions, so that workers have as little harmful impact as possible. Unfortunately, you were not interested in all of this, although both the employee side and the employer side were inclined to compromise, because they also saw that the current pension system is unsustainable because of its rigidity. And by the way, what we've seen over the last few years, what you've been interested in, it's in the interests of the multinationals. Because with the early retirement pension, the government was on the side of the multinationals, as opposed to the Hungarian workers. The system of early retirement paid little for the Hungarian state. Companies where this option existed had to pay 13 per cent extra costs to the pension insurance scheme to cover the possibility of early retirement. I'm telling you again, so it wasn't the state that had to pay, it was the multinationals. After 31 December 2014, this was terminated by the liquidation of early retirement pensions. Unfortunately, the fact that this remaining amount of money went to wage developments remains a vain fantasy, since this remaining contribution has been booked by the multinationals without minimally raising the salary of the employees. The abuse of early retirement is recognised by both workers and employers. That the system wasn't perfect, even we're signing it, but we can't accept that they've been led to the fact that only the multinationals won, and the employees didn't. This system will be restored by the Jobbik government, we will sit down with the unions, and we will solve the problem of early retirement. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-06-238	[[The sound's not working.]] The reason for the current silence is that I can't turn on my own microphone, which doesn't bother you, but the record does. As long as the technical error is resolved... now I have a voice while the monitor doesn't show it. This does not bother you to know that this is a two-minute comment, on behalf of Mr Nándor Gúr, on behalf of the MSZP. Congressman, stop! My apologies, it's not your fault, it's some other technical error. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Time is running out. Give us back our time.]] We give back everything, mostly their opinions. I'm taking a break for a few minutes for technical reasons. Tamás Pintér the minutes He says he talks, he sits in his seat, he doesn't do anything, and Congressman Gúr should be prepared to speak. You guys need to relax. [[Pause: 18.30 18.41President: Dr. István HillerNote: József Attila Móring]]
u2017-06-06-239	Dear Parliament, Here's what I'll let you know. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: There will be no sequel today!]] Thank you very much for the suggestions, but... [[Defiance.]] So what we are talking about is that we could technically continue the debate, because with hand microphones, we can create the situation that is necessary for the meeting to take place. That's the good news. The bad news is that the program is currently unable to reconstruct which faction has or has left, so I can't verify who has time left, and although obviously one or two speeches can fit, this is not compatible with the house rules. Since we can only recover this by changing the computer program, how many minutes any faction has, in relation to which I can tell whether or not the speech will still fit in the faction time, according to the computer colleagues, it will take at least 15 minutes to restore this, so I will order a further 15 minutes of technical break. [[Break: 18.43 18.56President: Dr. István HillerNote: József Attila Móring]]
u2017-06-06-240	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the IT colleagues have restored the plenary programme, so there is no reason why we should continue our debate with the Fidesz faction or, I apologize to the Jobbik faction, because our last speaker was a member of the Jobbik group. With all due respect, the duration of the last speech was not fixed by the machine, it was 6 minutes 30 seconds, and Mr Pintér spoke so much, yes. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, among them: There weren't so many! 5.40. Noise. Dr. Bence Rétvári: 6.29.]] Please, the thing is, it was six minutes and 30 seconds, and I'll tell you why. Because the president said it was six minutes and 30 seconds. So, since this cannot be criticised, you will accept it, and I see that you can see that I am pleased. This time will be eliminated from the time of the Jobbik faction, so we will continue our work where we interrupted with two-minute speeches. Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP, please.
u2017-06-06-241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I've got the voice. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Attila Tilki also gave a few points of credibility, and addressed some of our fellow Members who left along the way, and I can see before the blue death that he had packed his bags and left. The basis of credibility, let's get off this track, but let's also go to substantive questions. Female 40, authenticity: At the time, they said that after 40 years of service there would be a retirement opportunity. What's going on? 40 years of eligibility, which we know is far from the same. Point 1.0 of authenticity is here. VAT: They said that there will be reductions in VAT, with European and world peaks. Hungary is working with 27 percent VAT today. Wage increase: minimum wage, contributions increase, purchasing power decreases for five to six years. Individual pension account: it was a promise, even Gabriella Selmeczi is here, you can even confirm that you have it, how you have it, but not in the meantime. Retirement age limit. My fellow Member Hollik speaks for 65 years that the social community and then in December 2010 hated the popular initiative that would have brought it back to 62. Reduction of costs: In 2011, several items can be said - shipments of waste and other items - in respect of which such increases have been shown in terms of costs, then slow reductions from 2012 onwards, and we are still concerned that there are about the pre-up conditions, but there are also virtually the same gas prices as six years ago, while reducing gas prices to half of their purchase from imports. But my happy fellow Member is a long way from being credible when he talks about his 14th month pension, that the social community, while they were yelling, only has to ask Orbán. Thank you very much, Mr. President. So much for credibility.
u2017-06-06-242	Thank you. Z. Carpathian Congressman Daniel, Jobbik, in two minutes.
u2017-06-06-243	Mr President, Dear House, It is very strange to listen to the Fidesz-KDNP in the case of pensions, that it has indeed introduced a record EU tax on child-rearing articles; therefore, in the middle of a demographic emergency period, in Hungary, the most brutal articles needed to bear children are taxed in terms of VAT. [[Nándor Gúr will take his place in the notary's seat.]] Meanwhile, the government has not responded to the decline in the proportion of women, women and women of the age capable of having children by about 10 percent over the last 15 years. The process is expected to continue, so unfortunately, the possibility of the birth of as many Hungarian children as possible should be removed from an increasingly narrowing circle, but it can be seen that fundamental pillars are missing from government policy. Let us think of a public housing and housing programme, as there is a brutal housing crisis and housing poverty. [[19.00]] Perhaps the secretary of state does not think seriously that a young Hungarian family starting their life can simply pay the 130-150 thousand HUF rents out of pocket and laughing. They should see and realize that a large number of apartments should be built to ensure that those who cannot obtain own property within a reasonable period of time, because this is almost impossible from the average Hungarian salary, we can also provide life prospects. We have also not heard a government reaction to what you will do when the forced entrepreneurs announced for the minimum wage for the decades after the change of method will retire in bulk with salaries much lower than those paid to former workers on the basis of their fully declared salary. It can be seen that the fact that people have been forced into the minimum wage announcement for years will cause a huge gap and, obviously, minimum contributions have been paid. We can therefore see that this government is making amazing mistakes in terms of both the lack of VAT and the lack of a home creation programme and, on the other hand, the failure to straighten up the tree, and that recognition should be followed by proposals for solutions. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-06-244	Thank you very much. We will go back to the speeches that have been announced. The first of these will be Fidesz's representative, Mrs Bene Ildikó. Here you go.
u2017-06-06-245	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard many things and many different comments today, but if we think about it, there have been many good thoughts here, which everyone can appreciate in a calmer, calmer way. When my fellow Members spoke, they all imagined a secure pension system in a complex system, a very important part of which was the family, a very important part of the job, but also a very important part of health care. Allow me to explain this part a little bit better, because this is the area that I've been getting to know better in recent decades. About the increase in drug prices, we've heard a lot. However, I have to say that the price of chronic diseases that cause people's diseases in Hungary today - high blood pressure, diabetes, high cholesterol - has been substantially reduced. Many times, my fellow Members have said today the word "flash ticket"! This is actually a technical help to keep the prices of medicines at an appropriate level. I think that this has been a very serious and very significant reduction in the burden for families and, above all, for pensioners, because we need to know that these diseases occur at the end of the active age or during the period of retirement. In the first full year of the introduction of the vaccine, the patient could save HUF 7.5 billion; in 2013, 2.5 billion, in 2014 2 billion, and more. In order for the blind and the drug price reduction to succeed to this extent, we needed the doctors, the pharmacists, a team effort to do this. But it should also be said that in the case of subsidised drugs, patients pay on average 25 percent of the total price, and social security pays 75 percent. Over the past five years, the paid social security support has increased from HUF 332 billion to HUF 378 billion, and, if you look at 2017, the amount that can be used to support medicines that can be replaced in outpatient care is 313 billion, and the large value of so-called item medicines, oncological care, which takes place in the hospital and is financed by a hundred percent, plus HUF 70 billion. In the period before 2010, exactly the same parts had a 60 billion withdrawal from the system, and the lawnmower principle was to reduce the funding of medicines from 367 billion to 298 billion. We talked a lot about the hospitalization of the elderly, about the launch of a programme for the waiting list in 2012. This is because diseases that primarily affect patients on the waiting list also join the elderly population. And if you look at the fact that in 2012, when the waiting list was introduced, there were over 70,000 people on the waiting list, and in 2017 there were slightly more than 27 thousand people. Diseases that affect the elderly, such as cataracts, should now wait for about 3 months instead of 600 days, or for a hip replacement instead of 568 days for 368 days, or for a knee replacement instead of 906 now 304. Of course, we can say that these are still high figures, but when we look at OECD data and we quote such data here in this House a lot, we see Hungary as the fifth place in Europe, and in some surgical procedures, it is beating. Obviously, there is still work to be done here and it needs to be further developed. I would like to mention one more thing, the importance of screening programmes. We have discussed here that we would like to focus on an active, healthy old age and an active retirement period. I think the most important part of this is to keep health as long as possible. Targeted public health screening studies available at the moment, whether for breast cancer or cervical cancer, or from September in virtually national perspectives for colon cancer screening, are very serious steps in which we can really achieve that patients who are cured in time can spend a lot of years in health, who may be late in medical care. There was also a note during the debate, such as my fellow Member Bangóné, about how many people died in Hungary during the period of influenza. Yes, we have a lot to do in the sense that, for example, as regards vaccinations, our fellow humans who suffer from some chronic illness should be persuaded to receive these vaccines, and it is also our task to ensure that as many people as possible get to screening tests. And allow me one more sentence, because I think that's part of it. Perhaps my fellow Member Sneider did not think that when he expressed this generalization, that when someone gets sick in old age, the financial situation of gratitude money and the difficulties associated with it would be greatly disrupted. I would like to say that today, many doctors and workers in Hungary do their work as necessary, according to their professional vocation and, of course, without gratuity. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]] [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2017-06-06-246	Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Ms Anita Heringes, MSZP Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-06-06-247	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Mr President, I agree with my fellow Members Tilki and Happy on rare occasions. We agree that pensioners should be respected, because they created the life and the present in which we now live. But just because they deserve respect, I don't understand why all the individual Members who should be sitting in this room today and telling their own constituents what future this government is going to give pensioners, why they don't sit here and tell their opinions. We have heard from my fellow Members that they are walking around the villages, that there is no poverty, that children are living well, that pensioners are living well, and that everyone is living their daily lives perfectly, and that we should go and take a look. I can say to my fellow Member, Tilki, that I would love to go with him to his constituency, but then he should come with me to Tolna County and show him how people live in an average village towards us today. [[19.10]] Because, of course, we can talk about how much easier it is to pay the gas bill thanks to the reduction of the overhead, but most of these people still have firewood in the villages, which is not covered by the reduction of the rent. Somehow, I don't know, they're probably in very good places, the village mayors here say there's not enough firewood in the firewood program, and people in need can't afford enough firewood for winter. Especially when they were very cold this winter, and they ran out of firewood in December, which was exactly what the pensioners needed and the big families needed. But then let's look at the pension policy that affected me and my age most when I was young: this is the einstantization of the private pension fund. 'Cause there's no other way to call this than you guys made $3,000 billion disappear by not knowing where that money is anymore. It's probably in stadiums and sovereign debt and everywhere you can put it, but you don't have that money in your pension fund. Let's look back to the time when this money just disappeared. By inciting and lying, extortion, the Fidesz government forced 3 million people to leave the private pension system. On average, the government took a million forints from the fund members. I remember the time when everyone was told that if you stay in the private pension fund, you won't get a pension, you won't get money from the state. They specifically blackmailed people from that system. God has never seen a system where I have to prove that I want to stay. And that's why you had to go into the Treasury, by the way, to sign papers that he wanted to stay somewhere, not to leave. But you created a situation where most of the people, out of fear, because blackmail becomes fear, out of fear, decided to step out of the private pension fund, which, by the way, caused you great harm. I think the damage to you will be recovered. They're gonna make you account for this damage because these people don't have the money in their accounts right now. You promised me that there would be individual bills, that everyone would have a separate account. This, we know, hasn't turned out to be anything to this day. Let's see what they said in chronological order. In December 2010, Gabriella Selmeczi said that all contributors are expected to have individual accounts within a year and a half. Somehow we can't see that right now. 2011: next spring the individual account can be created - Rogán said. But ever since he found rooms in addition to his property statement, people don't believe him either. The correct functioning of any pension system is based on an accurate registration system, and we are working to create it - Zoltán Balog, in 2012. Even in 2013, Antal Rogán claimed that the previous private pension fund payments would be credited that year; we have not seen it since. They've been misdirecting people with lies the whole time. They lied to every congressman who spoke on this matter. They spent 3000 billion forints, all to the last penny, but not without scandal. Let's just remember. The governing body of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund has started its operation before the executive government regulation governing it. The governing body of the Fund authorised ÁAK Zrt. on 18 May 2011. A detailed sales strategy was developed, but this was implemented and adopted only on 6 October 2011. This means that for almost five months, 450 billion forints of wealth were sold without a strategy. People's wealth. In spite of the fund's desire to use the services of a risk management service manager since May 2011, it was only available in August. Because of the slippage, an additional HUF 400 billion of assets outside the sovereign debt were sold without expert assistance. In addition to the irregularities, we should not be surprised that there were fidesz personal scandals surrounding this HUF 3000 billion stretch. Everyone remembers that between 15 June and 15 November 2012, Roland Natran, who was Deputy State Secretary of the Matolcsy Ministry of National Economy, served as Chairman of the governing body of the Fund. Nobody really cared about that either. The point is, you stole this money, applauded 3000 billion forints of the wealth of the people who paid this money properly so that they would have a pension in the future. And if you look at the numbers now, you said that the pension funds are gonna blow up the money and destroy the pension system. Compared to that, the MNB now states that it was worth staying six years ago: private pension funds performed better than sovereign debt and the Hungarian stock exchange. Four were left, their members were better off, who remained in a growth portfolio, in three out of four cases, their return was between 53 and 62 percent. On average, their accounts increased by HUF 1 million for those who remained in the private pension fund. What I can tell you is that these people will have to look you in the eye one day and tell them that we really screwed up, that we took the money home. You have to admit, and then they have a little easier souls. But still, accountability will come after 2018, and every step of the way they've taken will have to report where the money is, in which stadium. Thank you.
u2017-06-06-248	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Kovács, Fidesz Group, will be speaking. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-06-06-249	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We have talked about a lot of things, let me shed some light on my committee or my profession about what the social care of elderly people looks like in Hungarian society. After all, what we're talking about is fair and fair retirement, and then we're discussing where the 3000 billion forints have gone, which, by the way, was redirected from the pay-as-you-go system by the Socialist Government under the leadership of Gyula Horn. It can be argued that people had private assets when they were registered, or that the deficit was government or private people, which required this private pension fund to be paid in the public pension system. I do not want to engage in specific debates, but I would like to draw your attention to the social services that the Hungarian state, the Hungarian government, provides to older people. We could start with the meal, the social meals. When we talk about child poverty and child hunger in Parliament, I once took the liberty of recalling it again, and I'm not sure that literally, the year-end III. From the preamble to the Act on the European Economic and Social Committee:. Once-daily hot meals as a basic social service must be provided to all municipal authorities for persons in need who cannot resolve them in other forms. Dinner can be arranged from your own cooking kitchen or by buying meals that can be eaten, taken or asked to be delivered to your home.- When we talk about the fact that there is hunger for children, or how bad your social situation is for someone, it can be discussed, but I think there is a legal background to social care, which, if we want to follow or enforce it, I think is solved in any way. The next thing I know, let me say a few words about home assistance. The government has generated changes over the past period, as we have seen all the shortcomings and hiatus that marked this service. Here we have distinguished between home assistance and home care, for there are times when only home assistance requires intervention in a phase of quality of life in an elderly person, for which a lay helper is sufficient, without social qualifications. We are talking about social care, which is already subject to education, and we are talking about the professional side, keeping a service log. They also changed the conditions of this service during care periods, also in calculating the level of need. But we can talk about home assistance with a signal system. When people have self-sufficient ability, it helps with a device, a technical device, when an elderly person is either alone or scared, scared, but can press a panic button, and in that village there is a man who will go there and ask what is wrong with him. I think that again we can provide these services depending on the condition. But we could talk about home care, where in six years the government has expanded the number of home care recipients by 40 percent, doubling the number of caregivers. I think that this is a next such part of public engagement. Let me not detail the day-to-day institution when a municipality provides an opportunity to organise the day-to-day needs of an elderly person, his community experience or access to services that he cannot do alone in his own apartment and living environment. [[19.20]] But we could also talk about the nursing home and nursing home of older people. It is very important to mention that this was also a debate in Parliament, and I think there will be when the government introduces the kind of complex elderly care that, in cases requiring no medical supervision, but requiring special care, it will prefer the form of care, and this will also open up another service for older people who really need some medical care, but should be placed in a nursing facility. Allow me to list some of the numbers. In 2010, the government spent 50 billion 202 million on social services, social catering, domestic assistance, day-care facilities for dementias, residential institutions, nursing care services for elderly people, and increased housing. In 2016, it was 74 billion and 219 million, and it spends 48 percent more on the pension society that requires the use of social services in self-sufficiency. In addition to the pension system, the State also provides services where these people can receive all the services necessary for this quality of life. I think that this should also be discussed, and this should also be recorded in our minds when we talk about the care of elderly people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-06-250	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-06-06-251	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Over the past few hours, we have witnessed the presentation by the representatives of political parties, who had been Regent for the past or seven years, but who did not have an exception, and have outlined their visions of the elderly. The promise goes on, but the proof is much less, since, in practice, they were able to convert these beautiful words to the, above the retirement forums, a tribute to the years! -, -Estimation for the elderly! Its tangible reality, then we can encounter a great hiatus, and the political appreciation of the older members of society, it tells us a great deal about it. This treatment is clearly reflected in the true values of the parties. The scale of this value is becoming more and more important in a country where the proportion of people over 65 has now increased to 19 percent in the 1960s compared to 9 percent, and mostly because of the disastrously low fertility for decades, and because of emigration, by the middle of the century, every third Hungarian will belong to this age group. Health, livelihoods, security would be the three pillars on which all government measures relating to the current 3 million pensioners should rest, but our public health indicators are tragic. And what happens in the field of health is in a society as severely aged as ours, where in 90, only 65 older children have reached 100 children, and now more than 120, is potentially life-threatening. The human resources disaster is not coming, but it is coming, my fellow Members. It is already a cliché that we spend half as much on health as we should, and the average state of health in Hungary is already below the Romanian and Bulgarian levels. 10 percent of the population over 60 years of age are forced to live with some disability and 40 percent with some chronic illness. While 65-year-olds in France or Spain can expect another 21, we can only expect a further 16 years, if they live at all, because in small regions where GPs have been vacant for years, there is a double chance of premature death. It may not be a coincidence that one of the biggest losers of communism and regime change, in South Somogy, which has been wiped out a great deal by the current government, we are also one and a half times higher than critical national mortality rates. I am very sorry, by the way, that the Fidesz-KDNP representative of the region, elected individually, is not here for this debate. Aggravated by brutally poor birth data and emigration, this results in a 1 percent annual decline in population in the region. And to defraud and override the law of iron that there is a clear link between the economy and population, not even the parties of government can. We also need to say a few words about the physical safety of the elderly. There, from where the power of state has almost completely gone out, where there is not enough retaliation and deterrent power, jackals who can only see easy prey in their fellow man, walking in human skin, may feel that it is a free prey to leave the forced house arrest of his lonely, lousy-windowed little den. Although five thousand of our elderly countrymen living alone may now receive bracelets suitable for distress signals, and this is a welcome thing, but let us add quickly that there are a total of 700,000 elderly people living alone in our country, plus 56 percent of those over the age of 70, so there is still plenty to do. It is also a serious question of what the Hungarian average pension of 120 thousand HUF will be enough for, and what will be enough for the future miserable pension of more than 1 million minimum wage, as they are compared to Papa Vajna's or even Orbán's model, they cannot extract billions of dividends from casino or family quarry. Without a pension union, the terror of pension poverty that can be forecast in a few decades will be even more threatening than it is now, especially if we also calculate how much less the new social security access to the labour market will be when the Ratkó-grandsons, which means that my generation, when they retire in the mass in three decades, will be. We see that the family is shot with heavy artillery and is trying to destroy the extreme liberal economic and social philosophy, and this has been taking place in Hungary for many decades, where the answer to the tragic population loss was György Aczél, an infinitely vile and uncovered Hungarian anti-Hungarian response, that mentioning the population problem leads to nationalism. We still drink the juice, and if everything goes on like this, we can reach the bottom of the demographic surf decades ahead of our fellow Europeans who also march into their destiny. That is why it is necessary to avoid the so-called left holding back in power, so that the so-called civilian side should not be left in power, and that is why it must finally be achieved that this country should become a pro-ethnic government. Let's hope that's how it's gonna be in 2018. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-06-252	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi.
u2017-06-06-253	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The compulsory private pension fund was also a threat to pensioners and pensioners, and was also a threat to active age. Why do we say that, and why did we say that back then? The essence of the compulsory private pension fund membership was that, in the case of contributions, the forints that were originally supposed to go to the pension fund were redirected to so-called private pension funds, all of which were held by foreign multinational companies. Month after month, less and less money went into the pension fund, leaving less and less money to pay pensions from month to month. At the same time, the mandatory private pension fund system increased the deficit by 1 percent each year. We already know why it is dangerous for an economy and a society to be indebted to a country. That is why we say that compulsory private pension fund membership was dangerous to society on the one hand, because it increased the general government deficit and, on the other, to pensioners, because at a certain point there was no money out of the pension fund, so if we hadn't changed, we wouldn't have had to pay pensions. One out of three pensionforints was missing in 2010. Account management: At the moment, everyone at the pension insurance company has an account, an individual account. This will lead to the income on which the contribution is paid and will lead to the period of service. More and more people can see where this account is in a matter of seconds. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-06-254	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group, applied for a two-minute speech. You have the floor, Congressman. [[19.30]]
u2017-06-06-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, It was my colleague Gabriella Selmeczi's speech that moved me to respond to this. He said it was dangerous and that they could have been bad on either one side or on the other side. It's a bad thing for everyone, Congresswoman. What happened to that 3000 billion forint? Here was 1700 billion forints in sovereign debt. By the way, the Hungarian state was also financed by the people who paid in there. Those sovereign debt were withdrawn, entered into the budget, burned, operated. For HUF 550 billion, MOL-pake was purchased, which was worth roughly HUF 300-350 billion a year later, resulting in HUF 200 billion damage and a shortage. As it turned out later, in a rather odd tender, HUF 511 billion of foreign paper landed at Unicredit, who, who knows under what conditions, obviously handle this amount. And what's left of it is quite simply worked out by you. In the end, this money simply vanished into thin air. People who paid in on the private pension fund savings didn't need MOL-paket. They didn't want to buy, most of all, a MOL-pake that costs 200 billion, because that was someone's power-technical interest at the time! They didn't need this. They needed to have adequate savings for their old age, and they did not think that a government would come along that would change the rules along the way and take the savings that they had to pay for and paid for. They also financed the Hungarian state, the largest package in sovereign debt. That's why it was incomprehensible that you wanted to make these money disappear like this. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-06-06-256	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will now continue with speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, Fidesz Group.
u2017-06-06-257	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Fidesz and KDNP aim to create a society in which generations cannot be confronted. We do not want to build such a society, nor do we want to live in a society in which this can happen. Therefore, in accordance with our objectives, we are always guided by the principle that different generations create one unity, one community. We believe that we must break up with an attitude that ageing can only cost society. We too must consider our parents, grandparents, our great-grandparents as basic stones from whom we can learn humanity, honor, profession, morality. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of all these considerations, the Elderly Council was established a few years ago, which is the government's advisory body, which can propose government measures; it can mediate and convey proposals from older people, religious communities and civil society organisations. In recent years, the Council has discussed important issues such as the preservation of pensions, the role of the National Basic Study Plan in shaping attitudes towards the elderly, or cooperation with the Hungarian Central Statistical Office in collecting the data needed to develop programmes to improve the quality of life of older people, or in helping people with vision problems to use the Internet. [[Péter Cseresnyés is leaving the Chamber. Statement from the benches of the MSZP: Secretary of State! Where are you going?]] Ladies and gentlemen, Luckily, this initiative is taken across the country, so in my constituency, Budapest XVII. He was also followed and followed in Rákosmen in his district. We have a good example here, the Elderly Council. It is very important that not only the state, but also the local authorities, seek the opinion of local pensioners, local pensioners' clubs, local pensioners' NGOs before making their decisions and regulations, and help them in whatever they want. Here, as an example, a local free university has started in my constituency, which deals with various topics, cultural, artistic, sports and other areas for pensioners, but German and English have started free language courses in the local government, and we also try to familiarize the local older generation with the mysteries of computing. I think that all of these initiatives are meant to express contact, appreciation and intention in all segments of society, in all municipalities and at state level, so that pensioners can feel that we are not only financially helping them - VAT reduction, basic food tax, reduction; there has been a lot of talk about these measures today - but we also look up to them morally and expect their experience. Ladies and gentlemen, We must appreciate and respect, all of us, regardless of party standing, pensioners. We must count on their knowledge and expect their experience. This is why we have decided to create predictability and security for Hungarian pensioners. That is why we reduced the VAT on basic foods, which I mentioned, so we reduced the cost of the rent, and that is why we introduced one of our most important pension policy measures for women, the. In the 2010 campaign Fidesz was one of the most important commitments of the Women's programme, which was introduced practically immediately at the time of the change of government. Parliament voted on it in December 2010, but the opposition, unfortunately, did not support either the MSZP, Jobbik or LMP, this package, this measure. If it had been up to the opposition, this measure, the Women's 40, would not be in Hungary today, as would many other tax reduction measures that help families. We considered it necessary to introduce women 40, even then, because during the governance of the left, we saw that women and mothers who worked hard and raised one or two or three or more children were often humiliated rather than helped. Let us recall that the main targets of tax increases and restrictions under left-wing governance were families, Hungarian women and mothers, grandmothers. Many of them may even have been worried about retirement at that time because they were left unemployed as they approached the pension. Not to mention the fact that the purchasing power of the pension has been drastically reduced due to high inflation and tax increases. Every year since 2011, we ensure that women can retire after 40 years of work, and in this case also receive a full old-age pension. But perhaps even more important, this is also a very important gesture to women. It means that Fidesz and KDNP appreciate women. We appreciate that during four decades of work, which was mostly not only full of work but also of raising children, they carried the family on their shoulders and carried Hungary on their shoulders. We know very well that 40 years of child rearing also counts. It is worth highlighting a very large number: until April this year, more than 194 thousand Hungarian women lived and helped them to be with their husbands, family and grandchildren. This programme therefore clearly promotes family cohesion, the strengthening of families and intergenerational cooperation. On the basis of the Women's 40 and many other family policy measures, women today can be sure that, as long as Fidesz and KDNP govern the country, this measure will remain. [[19.40]] I hear it very often, and they ask me in my host hour, at the level of such whispering propaganda, that they heard it here, there, that Fidesz would eliminate it. I would also like to emphasise here in this House that this is a rumor, that we do not have such a plan, that Fidesz and KDNP do not. For others, however, it is worth seeing - as I mentioned - this measure was not supported by the opposition. Women can be confident that they will receive appreciation and special attention and that they will not have to expect austerity. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to say a few more words about the Elizabeth programme very briefly, in a few thoughts. The Erzsébet programme also has a slice and a very significant slice that helps Hungarian pensioners to take a rest during their years of retirement that they deserve during the year. There are a lot of pensioners who actually worked 40 years or more in their lives, and they couldn't do it in the '90s and '2000s to get the family out, the husband takes his wife, the wife takes his husband, so they can go on vacation together to Lake Balaton, the beautiful landscapes of our country. With this program, this has been made possible. In 2012, immediately in the first year, 17 thousand, 28 thousand in 2013, 34 thousand in 2014, 58 thousand in 2015, in the last year 35 thousand and the current two-year tender cycle, in 2017-2018 the Erzsébet program provided and provides for 42 thousand pensioners, as well as recreational, holiday and recreation opportunities. Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking you, here I have heard comments from the opposition that this is such a success propaganda. No! Ladies and gentlemen, There are results, these results we do not want to hide. These results are obvious and we ask that they be respected and not destroyed. These results speak for themselves. But we also know very well who doesn't want to give more than that. We are about to expand every year the opportunities that pensioners receive. Our economy, thank God, is growing stronger, and this growing economy makes it possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-258	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-06-06-259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My first sentence, turning to Gabriella Selmeczi, is that the personal pension account does not mean, Congresswoman, what you are talking about. Therefore, it does not mean that in the application No 08 to the National Tax and Customs Office, undertakings will in practice declare, declare and declare the amount of contributions paid to their employees from 1 January 2013, otherwise this does not mean that there are individual pension accounts. On this basis, no one will know how much his expected pension amount is. So, you can stun people and fool people, but it's not a personal retirement account. Just as an introductory thought, if you're gonna be able to say something smart about it, you're welcome to hear it. With regard to pensions, with regard to old age and retirement, we would like to make sure that it is not just about pensions and money; it is obviously about health or the issue of health inequalities, which are different, whether territorially or in line with income positions. In addition to the issue of elderly care, the convergence or lack of health and social networking systems, the problems in working life, point to the age of life. It is clear, then, that the development of living conditions also affects these issues; how a person is excluded from his old age, or how he or she avoids it, or whether the issue of self-preservation and self-sufficiency can be strengthened in old age, whether the pensioner can become active after the age of 65, let us say, after reaching the retirement age. Is there a problem that is socially beneficial, and he can provide it, do it with a good heart, and even produce an economic product in this sense, even if this story is without forints? But the most important thing in my mind is how and how we look at each other in relation to the relationship of generations. Look, the generation or representatives of generations who can't respect the generations they've been running before, well, there's a lot you can't count on in the coming period. And I find that in 2009, there was a long-term strategy for older people, which I believe was fully and unanimously adopted between the walls of Parliament, and after that, after 2010, Fidesz did nothing and did nothing. You know, it is not a random process that I wish to repeat over and over again why many people have left this country, so far 600 thousand and 400 thousand people are looking forward to the fact that the rate of withdrawal from the pension system is the same as I am talking about the confiscation of private pension funds of HUF 3000 billion, and I do not need to mention that there is an increased withdrawal from the financing of social security. Practically, as we have mentioned here several times today, these years have been coupled with the taking of previous acquired licenses. One word, as a hundred, you consider pension as a donation and not a acquired right, and that is a acquired right, along with work and paid contributions. That's what you should acknowledge. The aim should be to achieve justice, to eliminate inequality in a sense, to ensure that this is solidarity, to make it fair, to ensure that the small ones who earn little and have a small pension do not receive even smaller increases in pensions. What I'm trying to say is that the sub-minimum, from our point of view, is that the resources that provide the basis for a decent living must be available. It is no coincidence that in the case of full pensions, which can be estimated after 20 years of service, we say that we should at least double the amount of HUF 28 500. Yes, the minimum living means that in the case of a pensioner, but also in the case of an active worker, you need to have more money than the minimum living amount per person. You have missed this in the last seven years, so many have reached the stage of extreme poverty in Hungary. Like I said, a small salary, a small pension, even a small raise, that's what you have to avoid, so that people don't suffer. Three specific things in short. One is that, for this reason, the pension contribution ceiling should be practically reduced so that there is no 130- and 150-fold difference in the minimum of full pension and the pensioner's relationship receiving the highest amount. This should not be financed within the framework of social security. Another is the question of flexibility. After 2011, when everything was swept out in terms of flexibility and their decision in December 2010 legitimised the retirement age for 65 years, not accepting the popular initiative, which tried to embarrass it in 62 years, they committed a crime against society to put the long decades, 40-45 years of work in the position to put people in the position that if they were 62-63 years old, the company would cease to exist, then these people could either go to trimming, pre-retirement aid or community service. Do you know how much this is? One is 44,000 forints, the other is 53,000 forints. I don't want them to have to make a living out of this, but I want them to know that you can't make a living out of it, just like you did with 47,000 forints of public employment money. And one more thing to conclude, which was incomprehensible, was that the employment pension had been canceled by you, the one that the employer had paid in advance for many years to give pension security to his employee, yes, this system must be rebuilt, because he doesn't have any indemnification, he only has a beneficiary, and man must be the beneficiary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[19.50]]
u2017-06-06-260	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sebestyén, Member of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-06-06-261	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Many things have been affected by this debate today. I may also be talking about something that has already been mentioned, but I think that repetition is the mother of knowledge, and I may be lighting these questions in a slightly different way. The first thing I'd like to talk about is the destruction of the disability pension system that this previous Orbán government has committed. I know very well that before the conversion there were very serious abuses in the system, there were a lot of stowaways in the system. We have heard of villages in North-East Hungary and East-Hungary, where people lived completely disabled. I know there were a lot of stowaways in the system, but I still think it's not the lawnmower principle that should be applied. Rather, the system needs to be circumscribed and the rules changed so that, on the one hand, it cannot be a stowaway in the system and, on the other hand, the levels can show who belongs to the category. Indeed, the category in the disability pension system, which is based on insurance as well as the pension system, is not a kind of benefit or almost a social benefit that is given to people with disabilities. Let us not forget that many of them have been contributors for decades, so I think it is not a fair and equitable way for them to get into a completely different type of care until the retirement age is reached, but it is fair that if there is evidence of health damage, it is justified that they have become unfit for work, that they do receive benefits in the insurance system and that they do receive pension benefits. I think that this needs to be addressed, and this needs to be changed, especially when we consider the situations that have arisen in the country after the legislative amendment, the unfair situation of many people, the humiliating situation that many of them have in the course of the reviews, and many of them, even at the end of the investigations, are in an unlivable situation, and most of them, and very many of them, outside of their own mistakes, are in this situation. They have already been mentioned here, Mr Kovács has spoken about this: home care, care, home assistance. This has already been mentioned among our speeches, but let us not forget what has been happening with this area recently. Because I would still accept the reason why the whole system has been transformed into a lawnmower principle, not a lawnmower principle here, but a system that is really sized so that an elderly person who, for some reason, needs help in his own home, should be separated from health care and be separated from other or even mental care. Just because of what they brought into this system, we could say it's a face toaster. We know very well what they do to the social care system, the social care system, every day, and we know very well what humiliating wage system they have to work in to this day. In addition, this system works, and here, in this area, for non-skilled home assistance, the woman, combined with the programme of work, wishes to redirect women of integrated Roma origin to this area. All of this would be nice and good, but one of the questions is what level of skill can be provided, without expertise, even if we are talking about mental, subpoenaing, only mental treatment. On the other hand, not to mention that we know the region of North-East Hungary, we know very well how widespread and serious ageing is. We know what ageing is: elderly people living alone in their homes are being robbed, in many cases young people of Roma origin. In many cases, because of the new system, it is possible that we will send a member of the ageing family to a single elderly person in a vulnerable situation, in principle with help and as an official, who may thus be more at risk of this phenomenon. I think it was a rather hasty and hasty measure. We know what it's like from the whole application system. I think we should have been a little more careful. Not with such measures to solve certain problems [[László Teleki: Time's up!]] but, in particular, the social security system [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] its employees must be valued, they must be placed in a position to ensure that the system is normally sustainable, also for the benefit of the elderly. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-06-06-262	Thank you, Congressman. I can't leave it alone, and I must signal to you that, in terms of origin, there is no distinction in the Parliament building. [[Tamás Sneider: It's in the program! László Teleki: What program?]] With all due respect, the Member mentioned this in a different context, which I do not wish to open a debate on, but I was obliged to signal this to my fellow Member. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I am speaking to Mr Imre Horváth, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-06-06-263	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I suppose you've heard the saying that the poor state, the country that has the organs of violence, the workers of the force, the pensioners, I could go on, doesn't appreciate those in the field of education. I'm a representative of a district where thousands of law enforcement workers live, active law enforcement workers, and hundreds of service benefits you've invented live in my constituency. I think that many things have been said here during the budget negotiations. In many cases, the performance of the economy has been described as a boastful one, and in the context of the defence budget, we have achieved a budget of more than 1 per cent of GDP. At the same time, the fulfillment of these people's tasks, physical, mental and mental stress, is more powerful than that of active workers in other areas of life. I would like to remind the Secretary of State that it has been suggested on several occasions who are working at the Serbian border. I don't know if you know that I'm on patrol at the border with senior lieutenant colonels over the age of 60. I think it is possible to meditate on this that these people who have worked their 30-40 years in different areas, but obviously have not complied with the legal requirement, are now patrolling there. Or remember who worked in the Danube flood. These people were carrying the sandbag. You have terminated the service pension after 31 December 2011. Consequently, members of professional staff should not retire until the age limit applicable to them has been reached. Under the new rules, the professional who has reached the age of 52 and who has a minimum of 25 years of service shall be employed in a relieved service at his request. Retirement benefits shall be paid to them as old-age pensions; those who were born after 54 shall not be retired, but shall be entitled to service. The amount of service payable shall be the amount of the former service pension reduced by the level of personal income tax. At present, this appears to be not a significant number, there are 2,300 people who were born before 55 and who have worked in an armed body and are currently receiving an early retirement pension. [[20.00]] According to statistics, this is a HUF 220,000 monthly benefit, but if you look at this statistics, most of the 2300 people will receive only HUF 100-150 thousand. Thus, higher-ranking, higher-ranking persons have a higher level of care. As a pre-age benefit, 30,000 people receive a service allowance, with an average of 195 thousand HUF, but lower incomes receive much less than this, I personally know it, with an amount of 130-150 thousand HUF. According to the Socialist Party, in recognition of the career in professional service, a new type of pension scheme should be introduced in the new employment law, which provides for tax-free pension benefits and pension status, but, unlike previous regulations, it is an integral part of the promotion of career renewal rather than early retirement. Eligibility is limited to professional service periods, excluding the possibility of retirement at an too young age and ensuring the budgetary financing and long-term stability of the pension system. We consider it extremely important to compensate the moral and financial compensation of service pensioners who have been unfairly abused by Fidesz. We firmly believe that no state can afford a retroactive discriminatory reduction of pensions, especially those who have served their country at the risk of their lives. Immediately after the change of government, we will restore the pension status of those receiving a service allowance, thus eliminating discrimination without any basis, such as restrictions on employment. An important element of financial compensation is also the elimination of a deduction on the benefits of recipients of service allowances equal to the level of personal income tax. This will be done as far as possible at the same time as the retirement status is restored. We will also start phasing out the benefit deduction if the budgetary margin in 2018 does not allow it to be removed immediately by an act. In this respect, too, the Hungarian Socialist Party wishes to do justice. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-06-264	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, MSZP Group, for a two-minute speech. [[On the sign of Lajos Korózs:]] The congressman's device indicated it, but then he stopped speaking. Mr Sándor Szabó, MSZP Group, will be speaking. Here you go.
u2017-06-06-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As we know, Hungary has a pay-as-you-go pension system, which means that pensions are paid not only in Hungary but also in Europe, but also worldwide, because there are fewer and fewer people who can fund pensions from their contributions. For this reason, the governments of all ages have a responsibility to maintain the real value of pensions, and that is why there was a huge mistake when the private pension system was abolished, since at that time the pension system was on two pillars, and contrary to previous news, it was clear that these private pension funds certainly did not steal people's money, as we can see that they can produce 5-7-8 percent extra per year and have saved millions of HUF for those who have remained in this system. As my fellow Member said, with this pension is a acquired right, not a reward, not a kind of grace or any kind of bonus, and therefore we feel totally unfair about the 28 300 a minimum pension of HUF, which pensioners have been receiving for years. That is why we say that this amount should be doubled at least, because people who retired years or decades earlier, I think that they have built this country and deserve not only moral but also financial respect. In just a few minutes, I would like to remind you of some of the financial social support that, if not, is part of the pension system at some level. In Hungary, we find that social benefits have been steadily decreasing since 2009 compared to GDP: while in 2009 the amount of 22.4 per cent of GDP was spent on social benefits, in the following years, in almost half a decade, this amount has fallen to 19 per cent, which is clearly the work of the Orbán government. I would just like to say one sentence about poverty indicators, as my fellow Members have already spoken about it. I think the situation is much worse than in the post-crisis years, in 2010 this was the case in Hungary, and at the end of last year, the government pulled another ten billion out of social benefits, and this is already reflected in the budget ahead of us next year.Since 2010, the government has taken countless negative measures against the poor by eliminating the various aids, cutting the various financial benefits, and even to the point that they have stopped calculating the minimum of living, so that it cannot be shown how many poor people in Hungary. The government has given up millions of people, and it will be your historic responsibility that Hungarian society has become so seriously poor. The government terminated housing support in 2015. There has been a process of centralization on the part of the Orbán government, and we have not seen this in the area of social benefits alone, and there has been a kind of decentralisation process. From 1 April 2015 we see and find that a large number of social benefits in cash have been abolished, and the solution to this task has simply been entrusted to the municipalities. It wouldn't be a problem if the municipalities had money for this, but we also know that 90 percent of the settlements couldn't afford these financial resources, unfortunately, because the municipalities are happy to have enough money to ensure their own operation. Thus, housing support, debt management support, and tens of billions of forints have been withdrawn from the relief system in recent years, thus increasing further poverty and the public utility debt of those living in poverty. In recent years, a HUF has not increased the level of public health care, and even in 2015 the type of public health care that could be established on a fair basis has been abolished. This was also part of the bouquet I was just talking about, that in 2015 a huge change was made within the financial social security system. The only way to compensate for this was to increase the level of public health care a very small amount every year, but this has no significant impact on the budget for next year. In recent years, the basic amount of the care fee has been slightly increased, but it is still not in a thank-you relationship with what the relatives of elderly sick people, the nursing family, should receive, since the amount of support does not even reach the net minimum wage, while these people do this work 24 hours a day, which, by the way, I think reduces the burden on the state. One more thing about care, about elderly people's benefits. Older people's benefits and benefits are granted to persons over the age of retirement who do not have income or who do not reach the defined income limit. This threshold will rise by 5 percent next year, but the level of care should be substantially increased here, because, like many other social support, this has gone through a huge impairment in recent years, just because of the already mentioned freezing of the minimum pension. [[20.10]] It is therefore unacceptable for the government to do nothing for people living in poverty, including those elderly who have daily livelihood problems because of their low income. We think that in 2018, when we get to the government, we will introduce a minimum livelihood. Thank you for listening.
u2017-06-06-266	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-06-267	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Congressman, you've been talking about social support for pensioners, but I don't think you've given me numbers on purpose. Allow me to make a comparison. I will compare the 2010 and 2016 figures and give you the items that we provide to pensioners and then two amounts. You said that we had reduced social support. So what I'm looking at is social catering for pensioners, home assistance, day care for elderly people, day care for patients with dementia, residential care for patients with dementia, nursing care for elderly people at home, high-quality residential care. In 2010 the Hungarian budget spent HUF 50 billion in the last budget adopted by the socialists; last year, 2016 HUF 74 billion. Social aid, the social budget lines that provided these services to older people, increased by 50 percent. I think it is clear from this that these social subsidies have not decreased but have increased, in this case they have increased by almost 50 percent. That is why an elderly person today may feel safer than he felt in 2010. And if the socialists come back, they will reduce these benefits again, try to tax the incomes of pensioners again, as they tried and even did the Horn Cabinet, or even tried the Gyurcsány Cabinet, but they didn't have time left for it. So I think that anyone who wants to be safe for his elderly years should not choose the socialists, and in credibility I believe that this 50 billion versus 74 billion has quite clearly refuted the entire speech of the Member. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-268	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group.
u2017-06-06-269	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Before I get to the point of my comment, I cannot, of course, go without saying what we have heard from my better fellow Member. [[Cutter Sebestyén interrupts.]] I'll use very fine words. [[Interviews from Jobbik, including Tamás Sneider: And quote!]] Not the kind of people you guys are. Not even because that style, not necessarily what was on the record, but what was then between us, I don't think it's acceptable for a graduate student. This policy of yours is fueled by anger. [[Tamás Sneider intervenes.]] I'm not gonna give you that anger to stop feeding your politics. Turn around, look at your fellow Member, and you'll see in his eyes what I'm talking about. I think that one more thing could have been expected that the Secretary of State representing the Government would say the same in general. [[Dr. Bence Rétėvári: The Speaker responded immediately.]] That's what the Speaker told me. The government would have been good to speak in this regard. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The president of the meeting did.]] We're MPs so we don't act like immature children. The reason why people want us to trust the country in one of these compositions is because pensioners want us to do this right, so that we can try to improve their lives at some level, with everyone's own means. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] They don't expect us to try to pursue this policy as immature children in benches in a louder way. [[Tamás Sneider intervenes.]] Turning to what I wanted to do in my comment, it is a matter of service and mining pensions. In the area where I'm from, there's a lot of things, I think, that's connected. I came from Baranya, and what you can see there is, besides the fact that after the mine closures, a profession ceased, and the work that provided people with a living was also stopped, and it was very hard work. When you have changed this, and you have taken away the possibility of early retirement, the possibility of mining pensions, not to mention that it was then converted into an allowance, granted, very many of you have been disabled during this work which has caused rather unusual physiological effects, and I believe that we have asked, for right and reason, that we have suggested that the government should, if appropriate, demand that people who have built up counties, built cities, where appropriate, have been provided with their work with the goods that can be produced all over the Danube, that you can provide those people with a decent, normal retirement age that we have also sought. There are not many, and that is why I think it hurts as much as possible that the government even needed it. In fact, those who receive mining benefits in Hungary today are 2861 people. It is almost unbelievable that it was not possible to make any exception to people who, apart from a very burdensome and, as I say, have done a lot of work with strange and lasting physiological effects, not only a small number of times, it took 5,000 shifts to get to a mining pension; 5 thousand times, they had to go down to 8 hours to 1700 to 1800 meters and work there, to work on coal; I think it was not just a responsibility, but also a duty, but even the government had to do it. This was necessary; and, of course, everyone who was disabled in this work was also ordered back, usually with impossible deadlines. They were ordered back, many of them told me in my reception hours, humiliating, subjecting them to tests that they certainly didn't deserve. Most people said that we read again in the Gazette that we were cured. And you wish these people good luck, who have worked very hard in the mine before, and you wish us good luck in today's Hungarian, South Hungary labour market. When you're 45-50-55, you're good at a certain profession, and you're not good at the rest. I think that they have been completely unfair to them. We have said it many times, many times here in Parliament, even on the streets and at demonstrations: before, governments made an agreement with the miners for a reason. They knew exactly what their work meant. They knew precisely that the work they were doing meant to do for a relatively higher wage would result in work that would result in irreversible health damage. Dear Secretary of State, 97 percent of miners do not live to the age limit for old-age pensions. It's a job like that. There are not so many that they cannot be properly cared for, not even because since you have been there, there has been one of the largest migrations in the settlements where miners live. You have failed in industrial restructuring, 20-25 percent of the city is missing; 20-25 percent of the villages are missing, where there is no way to return the solvent demand. You can share Elizabeth's voucher. Well, come with me, Secretary of State, to North Baranya, and then we'll try to cash it in the tiny villages in North Baranya. You can sit up, please, for that pensioner on the one bus that comes to Komlo, maybe he can get it accepted in one of the shops, maybe the more adventurous ones can go on to Pécs, and then you can do a full-day program for the pensioners because they were paid for in the Elizabeth voucher. I think it's polish. I think that these are pebbles, buttons that you are throwing in front of people who actually deserve a lot more than that, because those people built cities at the time and produced almost the total income of Transdanubia, so much more respect for them! I propose this, and I think that the Hungarian Socialist Party has taken good initiatives in this, take this, and I am sure that it will benefit. Thank you very much. [[20.20]]
u2017-06-06-270	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-06-271	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, From the end of the last speech, we learned that the MSZP did not support the fact that at the end of last year the pensioners received a HUF 10,000 voucher. I think it's worth asking pensioners whether they were happy about it or not. I believe that this ten thousand forints helped those who have the greatest benefit from the reduction of their rent, who are the most difficult to get out of their monthly pensions. These ten thousand forints were obviously worth more to them. [[Dr. László Szakács: cashed in for 2,500!]] as for those who have a higher pension. At the same time, there are odees and eulogies, mainly in relation to the compulsory private pension fund system by MSZP representatives. Allow me to sober you up with some data. Private pension funds spent HUF 150 billion on operating expenses until the first quarter of 2011. This HUF 150 billion would obviously have been good in the pension fund. If an average Hungarian employee has been a member of a compulsory private pension fund for 13 years, which the Horn Government required to invest part of their income in private pension funds instead of the state fund, then he paid approximately HUF 1.7 million, and at the end of 2010 HUF 2.3 million was credited to his account, so the amount was that much. If the same citizen had invested the same HUF 1.7 million in one of the safest, even the safest, sovereign debt forms during the same period of 13 years, he would have had HUF 200,000 more on his sovereign account than he had on his private pension fund savings. In 13 years, he lost 200,000 forints on this 1.7 million forints compared to investing his assets in sovereign debt. And if I look at this not only on one person but also on all private pension funds, then we can see that until 2012, it is about 700 billion forints that Hungarian pension contributors have lost by not investing this money in sovereign debt or not in the public system, but also in a compulsory private pension fund system, and, as I said, the HUF 150 billion operating cost. These amounts could have been used for a lot of things if not for the compulsory private pension scheme. So please don't give me any misleading examples. We have also heard several times that the contribution ceiling would be reinstated by our fellow MSZP Members. This would have meant, in the past, that, for example, the income of the pension fund would have been reduced by HUF 50 billion in 2013, and this year it would take about HUF 70 billion out of the pension fund. Tell me, honourable Members and ladies, that after having repeatedly said that this ceiling system would be restored, then this HUF 50 and 70 billion a year, is the hole that would be struck on the pension system because it would be replaced. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-272	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Statement by Mr László Teleki, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-06-06-273	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I do not wish to respond particularly to the sentences of my fellow Member, Mr Sebestyén [[Cutter Sebestyén interrupts.]] Because I don't think I'm having an argument with Jobbik about this, I'm having an argument with the government. However, I have to say with one thought that when you say that Roma women are being sent to pensioners, and they are likely to commit that they are not being served... [[Tamás Sneider: He did not say Roma women...]] But he said the Roma women, you can look back. [[Editor Sebestyén: Order of business...]] And I said...
u2017-06-06-274	Ladies and gentlemen, Excuse me, Congressman, one second, please. Let's not argue about that. Vice-President Sebestyén asked for the floor on a point of order. When the debate is over, I will give the floor to the Member and clear this matter here in the House. [[Towards László Teleki:]] Go on, Congressman.
u2017-06-06-275	I think - I have always said in Parliament - that we must measure everyone equally. If someone commits a crime in this case too, then he should be punished and punished, but not that we should highlight one group of people and say that if they go to a pensioner, it could be a crime. There's no such thing! There is such a thing that if someone does it, it must be condemned according to my values, because I think of democracy in Hungary. You don't think so, which is not a problem, but you can argue about it. I would like to relate to Mr László Szakács, who said that 97 percent of miners are not worth the pension. I would also like to say that the situation is similar in the Roma society. A lot of people in this room - there are not many of us now - or in Hungary can enjoy the result of the work that the Roma population has done in Hungary with their hands. I am thinking primarily of building a road network, or a lot of people live in homes built by Roma, and it is possible to describe the state of public areas where they can work as active workers, or even in public employment, you can see the result of good leadership. Today, in Hungary, there is only one situation: the Roma population can say the same percentage that 97-98 percent is not worth retirement because the majority of Roma are still physical workers, and it is therefore very difficult to say that they are worth the retirement age that is limited. Of course, it can be said that this is a tendency that cannot be reversed very much, but when I say that in its complexity there is much to be dealt with, I also think that health prevention should be given to the government much more than what it does, that what is the average age, should be pushed out to those who do physical work, in this case, either the miners or others who do physical work. Because if you don't do that, then it's safe to say that you're doing it on purpose so that most of the physical workers don't live to be retired, because then they don't have to pay a pension. This cannot be the goal of a government, it cannot be the goal of a country that goes in the direction of pushing out the chorus so that people can live for as long as possible. At the same time, however, it must be possible for the Roma population, those who carry out physical work, to have a chance. They didn't talk much about what they wanted to do with the 40-year-old working relationship for men. Because if they say that the economy is pounding now, I would ask whether, like women, men are thinking about such a concept, because a lot of people are looking forward to doing physical work and working for 40 years, doing different physical work, having the opportunity to enjoy the 5-10 or 20 years they might still be able to live after they retire. I do not think that the government today has such a concept of doing something with the man 40, but I would like to point out that it would affect hundreds of thousands of people, so that this issue will be put to rest, because if not, they will not be able to understand very well that they can retire and enjoy the time with their grandchildren or children when they no longer have to spend their time with work. So this is where the government has a responsibility to see if it really wants to go in that direction. Of course, you can say that we didn't even support the 40, but that's not the case. There were items we wanted to put into that law that didn't happen. I don't think we need to talk about the last eight years, but about the next period. And in the next period, we should figure out how the government wants to help the men in their 40s. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-06-276	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi, the Fidesz Group.
u2017-06-06-277	Thank you. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Thank you very much to our fellow socialist party Members for trying to give the Orbán government an idea of what they should do in the future. I think we should have started there or started there to be self-critical. I don't understand why you're talking about 40 men when it was your party mates who built you out of the government that day to raise your retirement age. The retirement age has been raised from 62 to 65 years. And I can give you the good advice to believe that it is extremely uncreditable to vote with one hand for the increase in retirement age, to vote, not to mention now, but the 13th month's pension, the depreciation of pensions, and then to come to Parliament, and I will not tell you that you're going to lecture me, so let's take it as good advice to the government. It is not credible, quite simply, my honourable fellow Member. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[20.30]]
u2017-06-06-278	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, MSZP Group.
u2017-06-06-279	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I have listened carefully to the speeches, and there are some that I can agree with, and I will give a voice to that. I would have liked to have heard your view on the pro-government side of the possibility of re-establishing retirement age, so that its flexibility would be restored by the pension system, which was terminated with a rapid measure on 1 January 2012. You know exactly how many, but how many hundred thousand people you've made impossible. We were talking about disability pensions. We are of the opinion that those who are permanently disabled must be guaranteed pension protection. We have never claimed that there will be no reviews, because it has to be, we have not claimed that everyone can go to disability pensions in the future indiscriminately, but we do believe that in a civilised country there must be an invalidity pension and an accident disability pension, and I think that Hungary is a civilised country. Those who are permanently disabled must be guaranteed pension protection. We also claim that if someone has enough health left to work on the labour market in a protected environment, it must also be supported by government measures. They didn't say anything about our suggestion that the minimum rate of old-age pension was outrageous, now 28 500 forints for the ninth year. We said we'd like to double that if we had the chance. Because this debate day is about a fair and just pension system, but we have not heard any fair measures, nor have we heard any fair measures from the government side. And we didn't hear what they thought beyond that. I still claim that I was a proud socialist who introduced, among other things, the 13th month pension. This was swept away by the global economic crisis, and we had an initiative, the institution of the pension premium, which is now being announced on the pro-government side. I would like to report to you with great humility that the Bajnai government has allowed the payment of the pension premium by law. If you pay a crooked penny next year, you will do nothing but fulfill your legal obligations. And I have not heard any suggestions about what they think about the service pension, all the more so, because if someone has taxed a pension somewhere, then it is the government led by Viktor Orbán, because the payment of service is a taxable income. Of course, they were bragging about things that were already there. Erzsébet's voucher has been mentioned several times. Well, it's not that much magic, it used to be. 70-80-90,000 pensioners could be recuperated through the holiday voucher, but it wasn't called the Elizabeth program. There has been a job protection programme for decades, as companies have been able to apply for employment support or some form of employment support for different applications. I must highlight the points that can be agreed with. There was a suggestion from the opposition side that there should be another contribution that is now being collected in the form of a tax. I totally agree with that. But I would also like to add that it is worth thinking about. Social security has been deprived of self-determination. If we say that there is an obligation to pay contributions to the social contribution tax, then there is a philosophical question, because if there is a tax, then the public burden and the public burden do not give rise to any consideration. If you pay a contribution, you get an allowance. If you can agree with that, then a constitutional guarantee can be entered here. Because if there is a constitutional guarantee, then the self-determination of social security can be restored, and I will even go on to provide wealth. This is a very serious philosophical question, and it is worth talking about. And I can agree with, for example, the housing of residential nursing homes, all the more so, because, as I mentioned in the keynote speakership, there are 50 lines of staff in the administration. Please, you have made it extremely difficult to access services, and not only in this area; I could put it on the social security side. I think that home assistance should not be boasting because they have tightened the dot line so that people who can reach 20 points in the case of home assistance are in such a bad state that they should be in a residential nursing home and not in home assistance. Thank you very much for your attention and thank you for your patience. Good-bye.
u2017-06-06-280	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if there is anyone else who would like to speak on this agenda. I give the floor to Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi in a two-minute time frame.
u2017-06-06-281	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of the pension policy debate day, I would like to thank you again for the opportunity to talk today about the situation of pensioners and the situation of the pension system. The questions that we were very curious about were what the MSZP and Jobbik said - I am thinking about the MSZP in particular - whether, at the time when they had the opportunity to establish a more just and equitable pension system, they made the decisions that were very meaty for pensioners. Why did they have to take away a month's pension, why would they plan to tax pensions, why did they have to inflate pensions, why would they allow the fees for medicines to rise at a very high rate, why would they want to hit pensioners by introducing a visitation fee and hospital daily allowances? I could give you a long list of questions, but we should not really answer these questions, but our retired compatriots should answer them. In conclusion, I can tell you that, like the government, Fidesz appreciates pensioners and expects the work of pensioners. And we can promise that we will continue to pursue the policy that we started from 2010. We would like to increase the purchasing value of pensions further, we have every hope of giving pensions to pensioners, the budget for next year is already planned. If the country's economic policy is good, children and active people are not the only ones who can benefit from it. Excuse me, Mr. President, did you give me a two-minute window?
u2017-06-06-282	Congresswoman, you asked to speak for two minutes.
u2017-06-06-283	I see. Then I'll press the button again. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-06-284	Here you go. Go ahead, because there's no other commentary. You have two minutes.
u2017-06-06-285	Thank you for your flexibility. So we would like to continue with a successful economic policy, because a successful economic policy is the basis for a further rise in the standard of living of pensioners. The system of this, its tools, can be very diverse. We reduced the rent, and through our family policy, we were able to help the pensioners. We've reduced the fees for the medications. We would like to create a much more accessible and modern health care system. We have a number of plans, a number of ideas. We hope that in the coming period we will have the opportunity to achieve as many of these as possible. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-06-06-286	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Again, I would like to ask you if anyone else has any intention of taking the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. On a point of order, Mr Sebestyén Vigó, Member of the Jobbik Group asked for the floor. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-06-06-287	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I asked for the floor in order of business because the style of shouting - which I accept as a parliamentary genre by the way - has certain limits. There were words from Congressman László Teleki when I spoke, which I find outrageous and unfair, and I reject. I couldn't press a button because of personal involvement, because I don't think any of the adjectives you've told me are appropriate. I'll refine what you said. He said to me, as I spoke out, that you Nazi male genitalia. I would like this to be in the record, because the shouting may not be included, and I would like the House Committee to address this issue. [[20.40]] This is particularly outrageous, however, because László Teleki was in a position under the MSZP governments, he was in a position of ministry when he was supposed to fight for the integration of the Roma...
u2017-06-06-288	Congressman! You asked to speak on a point of order.
u2017-06-06-289	Yeah, that's part of the order of business.
u2017-06-06-290	As head of the meeting, I do not consider this a point of order.
u2017-06-06-291	That you called me a Nazi penis, Congressman László Teleki?
u2017-06-06-292	Congressman! I'm in charge of the meeting, and the minutes are run by the minutes. You have the opportunity, through your faction, to contact the House Committee by adding the minutes if you have been offended. Mr President, I do not consider this debate to be a point of order and I consider it closed. Thank you very much. [[Editor Sebestyén: Thank you. Tamás Sneider: We turn to the House Committee.]] Dear Parliament, The political debate is closed. In return, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, who wishes to reply on behalf of the government. Secretary of State, please.
u2017-06-06-293	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you, too, everyone, who participated in the debate. On the one hand, this debate may have been a bidding of promises for many, but I believe that this was primarily a question of credibility. After all, everyone who works here in Parliament is discredited or discredited by their own votes, their own government decisions. We remember Ildikó Lendvai, who said slowly so that everyone could understand that there would be no gas price increase. And then not only did it become a gas price increase of 40 per cent, but it became a gas price increase of 100 per cent and 200 per cent, and an electricity increase of 100 per cent. So even though many people often say what they did the opposite in their own government time, I think it's contempt for pensioners if they think they don't remember what they did, whether they voted here after 2010 or they didn't vote for me after 2010, or they did it as a government decision before 2010. I believe that pensioners do not have memory problems, but some of the representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party who believe that they were able to promise pensioners a great deal of social security, health security and a secure pension before 2010. I think we saw a high school of euthanasia or explanation when it came to taking away a month's pension, the 13th month's pension. However, the fact that in recent years the purchasing value of the pension has increased by 9.5 percent, while the total increase was more than 23 percent and 23.1 percent. And it is the result of the economic policy of the governing parties, which is not economic policy dictated by Brussels or the International Monetary Fund or the World Bank, but a national economic policy, which, in turn, was able to create the basis for a pension premium of HUF 32 billion in next year's draft budget. I can say that it is more of a smiling category or the Eagle Cabaret category that the socialists say that it is not their responsibility to take the 13th month pension, but their result is that next year's budget includes 32 billion HUF pension premium. Well, that's one of those high-skilling things that I think few people believe. It can be seen that the MSZP fraction is increasingly concerned with the issue of pensions. There are two reasons for that. On the one hand, with elections approaching, voting, maximum voting, but I think pensioners remember the activities of the socialists. The other is that László Botka said that he would retire everyone from the MSZP, who was the figure of the big MSZP losses in 2010 and 2014. It's not like he wasn't here in Parliament between 2010 and 2014. Thus, the interest of socialist politicians may also be directed after László Botka's sentence, either against László Botka, or because of László Botka's interest in their own pension. I trust that whoever followed the debate could have seen that Fidesz-KDNP was there. On the other hand, he may have experienced either restrictions or rapid political turns, which also included the need to act as if they were friendly to pensioners for a broad electoral mandate. What we promised to preserve the value of pensions, we did; while the socialists took a month's pension and raised the rent to the sky, we reduced the rent and we were able to raise pensions. Thank you, everyone, who has taken part in this debate, and thank you very much, Mr President, once again for the opportunity to close. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-06-294	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. We now have an after-the-meet speech. After the agenda, Mr Ander Balázs, the Jobbik Group, spoke. I give you the floor, Congressman, within a five-minute time frame. [[Secretary Tamás Vargha takes his place in the horseshoe.]]
u2017-06-06-295	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The title of my speech is "Shut the fuck up!" 'The once famous lyrics and the title of the P. Mobile,' said P. Mobile. By the way, we see that the government has made this a leading star in its trade union philosophy. Unfortunately, here we are in 2017. In my speech, I would also like to talk about the attacks on employers' representatives. About 9 hours ago, in an oral question, I tried to ask Mr Tállai, Secretary of State, what was the government's position on why the trade union coverage in Hungary, let's say, was so low, why the number of accidents at work increased from 17 thousand to 23 thousand during the last few years of Fidesz domination. To add, all this is just the reported accidents at work. What about the things they don't report, they don't dare to report? It is no wonder, by the way, that such conditions have developed in our country when labour supervision has been so weakened that it would take 38 years for the public authorities to visit all the jobs. Besides, the hell doesn't want any unnecessary state veganism, it's just that the worker could be knocked on the nose of employers who treat him as a slave farmer. In the situation of domestic interest protection, the governments of the method change played a huge role, including the neoliberal socialists, who lied to the left, but who were purely multi- and large capitalists. Remember the whining that was used for example in raising the minimum wage of 18 thousand forints. And, of course, he had a huge responsibility to some trade union leaders who colluded with the current power, betraying the protection of interests for fatty judashkos, but also bravely competing with the current government in the urizing buff. And what did Fidesz do? As a bulwark, it corrupted workers' rights, a new Labour Code was written - which goes to the trash when Jobbik goes to the government, I can say that for sure - and Fidesz significantly damaged the rights of Hungarian workers. The final weapon of employee interest, the strike, was almost impossible; bus transport trade unions could tell a lot about this, because it was clear from their example that the courts were clearly defending ownership interests. The Hungarian workers, considered natives, were turned into serial biorobots and hired slaves. There's been some amazing news these days, and this has been reported by the non-manager non-manager press. Zsolt Kusper, president of the Hungarian Association of Rescue Workers, spoke about the very drastic methods of intimidation of workers in their recent demonstration of greater moral and financial respect for rescuers. He claims that sometimes the leaders do not have the ability to work for those who, for some reason, want to be put aside to ask the occupational health doctor to declare the worker unfit for work. Is there any more despicable thing to send a small child to an existential slaughterhouse with a credit burden, but a worker who does well in his profession, just because he dares to open his mouth? When are you gonna start looking into this obvious case against Btk to find out what's real? What's next? Will they fail the nation's day laborers who do not wish to become servants of local or national Dorks? But it's an outrageous scandal that happened at Tatabányai Erőmű Kft. The president of VIMÉSZ, the 45-year permanent labor union leader Ferenc Kovács, was dismissed two years before the retirement age, with immediate effect in the middle of the wage negotiations. They may back down now and take it back, but we can safely say that such impertinent employer arrogance, such inhumanity and brutal self-absorbed fear in the workers, which basically render collective protection impossible. But let's see who's in charge of the union attack. owners! Mostly the Fidesz-led municipality, and then the once privatized ELMIB Zrt. to the socialist moonyard, among the former leaders of which we can find interesting figures. [[20.50]] For example, the great survivor of the socialist regime, the former Puch László MSZP party banker, but now the top manager of the Fidesz era, who holds a leading position in ten Hungarian giant companies, while owning a company in Swiss tax haven, earning 300 million with his company in stolen private pension assets - oh, what epic markers! - I'm thinking of Norbert. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It is understandable why Nándor Gúr stands up here in Parliament last week. [[The president's ringing again.]] "He is sorry about what happened to Ferenc Kovács and the Secretary of State in a meaningless answer...
u2017-06-06-296	Congressman!
u2017-06-06-297	... blaming this whole question. Shame, shame! It's a combination of things that belong to each other. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-06-298	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 12 June 2017. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. [[The meeting ended at 8:51 p.m.]]
