u2017-10-24-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning, good afternoon to all my dear fellow Members and all those who are monitoring our sitting. I would like to inform you that in the chair of this meeting, József Attila Móring and István Szávay will be notaries to help me. Dear Parliament, Today we begin our work with speeches before the agenda, from 11:50 a.m. to 13:20 a.m., and then from about 13:20 a.m. to 14:20 a.m., the hour of immediate questions and answers will take place, and we will finish today's work with the speeches after the agenda. For a pre-meeting speech, Mr Demeter, Member of the LMP Group, Mr Orbán, Rogán, Pharaon and the others, submitted a statement on the security of the nation. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-10-24-1	Thank you. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, we can say that the lies of the Orbán government have been exposed. These have two characteristics. One is the double speech, and there is another thing: the concrete threat to the country's security, which is worse than the double speech. Let's get this straight. We remember the insane campaign the Orbán government conducted for many, tens of billions of Hungarian taxpayers' money to stop Brussels, so to speak. I think that there is no need to explain how absurd this situation is; there is no need to explain that, by the way, the Hungarian Prime Minister is sitting in the European Council, and that he would be obliged to represent Hungary's real national interest, not Fidesz's business interests, which you lie about as a national interest, but the country's real national interest. Let's see what happens on the other hand. While there have been tens of billions of campaigns to stop Brussels, let us look at what happened in the European Council. I have printed out all the final documents of the European Council over the past two years [[He's showing me papers.]] without exception - and I will be very curious about the answer, Mr.Secretary of State - Viktor Orbán supported these closing documents without exception, including the parts of migration and asylum. Now, that's the double speech. Meanwhile, they're having hysteria at home. Let us see what is even worse: the threat of national security, because while you are also campaigning from billions, you are conducting a national consultation on a non-existent Soros plan, which is a completely clear distraction - let us look at what is being distracted from - you deliberately organised and implemented immigration for Hungary and the entire Schengen area. [[Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] This was done with nothing but the construction of immigration bonds. Antal Rogán submitted the bill on this in Parliament. I ask you, while you consult billions of people on all kinds of airborne things, have you asked the Hungarian people whether they want you to decide over the heads of the Hungarian people that 20,000 people will be allowed into Hungary just to fill their pockets in fidesz circles. Have they asked the Hungarian people how they feel about the fact that these 20,000 people were allowed into Hungary and the Schengen area without any substantive control? Have people been asked whether they wanted offshore companies close to the government to make HUF 180 billion on this by not paying a penny tax in Hungary to allow immigrants to enter, because they are paying you? Did the Hungarian people want to know that while you, in contrast with the judgment of the European Court of Justice, did not want to assess the asylum application for 1294 people - because that's all it is - only the offshore company associated with Antal Rogán's name allowed nearly 1,500 people to enter Hungary and the Schengen area without any substantive control in 2016? Did they ask the Hungarian people if they wanted to make sure that, when taxpayers have to repay HUF 440 billion after these immigration bonds, the offshore companies that are also close to the government could disappear again with HUF 440 billion in excess of 180 billion? After all, András Tállai himself wrote to me: the state cannot guarantee that individual non-resident enterprises will survive and farm in the long term. So this is a consciously organised immigration scheme, it is a consciously organised money laundering scheme, which is assisted not only by pro-government politicians, but also by the Hungarian state institution system. And speaking of security risks, how Hungary's security was sold: there is Ghaith Pharaon, who, instead of being captured - under Interpol and FBI wanted - could buy land in the neighbourhood of Viktor Orbán, set up a joint venture with a Hungarian state company, and otherwise took part in a castle business with Viktor Orbán's son-in-law. Or there is Zaid Naffa, who consuls TB in Hungary despite the fact that he is a national security risk, nevertheless he has certified to Ghaith Pharaon, the international criminal, all kinds of income only in order for the Hungarian authorities to turn a blind eye to Ghaith Pharaon and, by the way, with Viktor Orbán. So it is now a fact: Fidesz has broken down the country's security system and we must say that the government does not govern, but the government of Viktor Orbán is engaged in criminally organized activities. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In 2018, we will put an end to this and return the security guarantee to the Hungarian people. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-10-24-2	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontra will respond. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-24-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I strongly reject Viktor Orbán's lies and abuses concerning Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and the Government of Hungary. There is no basis for what you have said, and you know it, as you know, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and the Government of Hungary in European forums have always acted and will continue to act for the safety of Hungary's people. [[Márta Demeter is presenting the documents again.]] I would also like to reject your lie as regards the documents of the European Council, the documents presented. The documents never included a compulsory resettlement quota, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán strongly opposed the quota each time, and we asked the people about it. The other part of my reply is that we are not only curious about the opinion of the people every four years in elections, but we are also asking for the opinion of the people in national consultations or even in the form of a referendum, and the people expressed a clear opinion, 3 million 362 thousand people said no to the compulsory resettlement quota on 2 October 2016, honourable Member. As far as security is concerned: let us not forget, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that international forums mark Hungary among the ten safest countries in the world, we are not only among Europe but also among the safest countries in the world, and therefore the Government of Hungary has done everything. In 2010, we said that order and security would be restored. Today we have achieved this, with more than 50 percent reduction in public crime, with more than 50 percent reduction in the number of high-profile crimes. Today we can say that Hungarian people, Hungary, are safer, much safer than it was in 2010, and not only we say so, but also international forums say so. As far as settlement bonds are concerned, I would like to say - and this has been said many times in many places - that the bond programme played an important role in Hungary's financing at the start and during its existence, so it was a tool that helped Hungary's economy. I would also like to draw your attention, Madam President, to the fact that you have asked the Minister of the Interior five times on a written question - 18 July 2017, 2 June 2017, 3 January 2017, 9 September 2016 and 25 April 2016 - concerning the establishment obligation. [[11.10]] You've been given an answer every time, and you're being realistic. [[Márta Demeter: I didn't get an answer!]] and you may have a real view that the holders of the settlement policy will pass through a four-fold filter until a decision has been taken on their submission. They're being investigated by the Immigration and Asylum Office, the police, the Counter-Terrorism Center and the specialised services. In addition, this paper is not about citizenship, it is about a residence permit, which can be withdrawn at any time. [[Márta Demeter keeps interrupting.]] When the conditions were met, the Hungarian authorities withdrew or, thanks to the quadruple filter, did not give the proposal to do so. So, honourable Member, I would like to say that what you are saying is not true, and the security of Hungary has not been compromised by this bond. Hungary's security is stable, solid, and I say that not only we say so, but also international forums. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I am sorry, by the way, that you bring the Ron Werber hate propaganda to this House from week to week in your speeches before the agenda or in Parliament. [[Demercation and intervention from the benches of opposition parties.]] Obviously, you're used to this in your former party, Ron Werber is no stranger to you. And I would like to say once again that if Hungary mattered to you, the safety of the Hungarian people would matter, then the pro-immigration proposals would not have been voted in the European Parliament. Your fellow Member, Tamás Meszerics, is the trusted ally of György Soros over and over again. [[Márta Demeter is presenting the documents again.]] voting in favour of mass immigration, voted in favour of the proposals of the Brussels migrant party on each occasion; voted in favour of the European Parliament report on the enforcement of the resettlement of migrants. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre interrupts.]] It also voted to impose fines on countries that say no to forced resettlement. And he can accept, as can the LMP, that Brussels should introduce a compulsory quota system. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy intervenes.]] We think that's the real security risk. But, Congresswoman, there is still room for change. If you really want the security of Hungary and the Hungarian people, then at last in the vote on the forthcoming proposal on immigration in the European Parliament [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They serve the interests of Hungary and the Hungarian people with their votes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-24-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. . Who is there to protect Hungarian people from? ! Mr Zsolt Molnár, from the MSZP Group, spoke before the agenda. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-10-24-5	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Appreciating the seven-year performance of the system of national cooperation, I have to say that you must protect this country from your performance and not from the false accusations made on the one hand about the Soros plan, which your leading politicians and ministers say there is no such plan, but only in your lie factory, which is capable of serving your party policy goals. Then joins this with the, let's stop Brussels! The password, which is all about stopping the European Union, is that you are questioning our membership of the European Union, preparing, where appropriate, our departure from the European Union, what Hungarian history has won over a thousand years to belong to it. That's what you're risking. Then, on the national holiday of all of us, on October 23rd, we learned that the dark side had come up and that it was between us, who would have to be defeated. What I'd say is, if you're looking for the dark side, you're looking for it in those benches. [[Pointing to the benches of the governing parties.]] You'll have to look in Voldemort. Who do we have to stop? The Hungarian government must be stopped because it is leading our country out of the European Union, which is unacceptable. And we need to stop spending money disguised as a national consultation, which is all about pulling off another skin after the quota vote. Fake questions, money-making - that's what the national consultation is all about. The Hungarian government must be stopped and the national consultation must be stopped. In order to save your answer, I would like to clarify that we do not wish to tear down the fence, the border fence. [[Interview from the benches of the governing parties: Not even disassemble it?]] , and we do not wish to introduce an open, unlimited admission quota in Hungary. I'm saying this because they're throwing these false accusations at us - they're perverted lies! There will be no fence dismantling and there will be no obligation to introduce an unlimited quota in Hungary. However, we remain in the European Union because the Hungarian people, the Hungarian nation, have decided to do so. Why do they do what they do? Because they want to distract attention, primarily from the amok run called government, and without the need for completeness, about the 13 plus 1 cases that I will now list, and to which the whole Hungarian society is waiting for an answer, not only Hungary, but all of Europe; about the Pharaon case that has become a disgrace to the country throughout the international scene, because a person under Interpol and FBI wanted to do business in our country. To this day, we still don't know the answer to why. Then there's his accomplice, Zaid Naffa, who's been called an honorary consul when he failed his national security review. Not to mention Szilárd Kiss's visa factory, which we have not known for many years how and how it happened that the ministers of the Hungarian government over-balance the opinion of the National Security and Constitutional Protection Office. Then we don't know what kind of break-in happened in the Arton Capital case, because it's not a public theft, we're sure. Then we do not know how the concept of national security risk is compatible with half of the Csepelny foreigners who were introduced into Hungary by settlement bonds, who came to Hungary after a superficial screening. Then we don't know what happened to the Azerbaijani bank accounts, we're talking about $9 million, but it might be a lot more. In Malta, a journalist who tried to get to the bottom of the matter died a heroic death. Then we don't know the connection between the extradition of the Azerbaijani axe and the mysterious bank accounts, which means we know exactly what the connection is. Then we don't know how the Yandex case happened. How can this happen in an EU NATO Member State? Then we do not know who prevented István Nyakó from exercising his civil rights in front of the National Election Office. We still don't know the answer. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Who fired you? Is that why you fired him? You have punished István Nyakó well! Comrade.]] We don't know the answer to how illegal database building can happen, as the national consultation is used many times to prepare for the Fidesz elections and to upload the database, as you are also afraid of election defeat. Then Voldemort case, Simonka case, Flórian Farkas, Hungarian National Bank, MET, without the need for completeness and plus 1 in Paks II. Encryptions, which are all about hiding behind the encryption and covering up the most suspicious cases in Hungary and Europe. We expect answers because silence is a confession. They admit that you are guilty of these crimes. Silence is nothing more than admitting it. Of course, we also expect an answer from you. We expect an answer from the government's Minister of Propaganda because of this [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The game's over! At the latest, the Hungarian electorate's responsibility must be faced with the elections. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-24-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard on behalf of the government from Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-24-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, You have mentioned that there is no plan for immigration. I do not know whether you are completely uninformed or knowingly misleading this House and the Hungarian public, but I would like to inform you that last week the European Parliament decided on the proposals that were included in the consultation, the compulsory quota, the facilitation of family reunification. They would punish those who are not involved financially. And I would also like to inform you that the representative of the left, the representative of the Gyurcsány Party, was there in the vote, voted in favour, and said that this was a step in the right direction. So please don't mislead the public. I see that we very much disagree with the need to protect Hungarians from what, because we believe that Hungary must be protected from economic vulnerability, from the constraints of previous periods, from tax increases, and also from illegal immigration. And it must be protected from the left that seems to have given up 1956 as a common Hungarian ideal, because here is a serious matter, honourable Member, which we do not want to go without a word. It is not that 23 raindrops prevented, prevented the commemoration of the left in 56 but there is a much more serious question; because we have just celebrated the 61st anniversary of 1956, and if we think that if all these years have passed, it means that things have been put in place in the meantime, we consider the unsubs to be the victims and the victims to be the victims. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre interrupts.]] Tibor Szanyi comes and gives 1956 an interpretation for which he could easily have been patted on the shoulder in the 1960s. According to his post, 23 October can only be regarded as a holiday in quotes. [[11.20]] This entry also suggests that the victims were actually the Ávos. The next morning, he wrote a wine steam letter - I wish he hadn't! - and it confirms that on 23 October we are celebrating the people who stand up for socialism, the actual heroes of 56. That's what he wrote. And he also said that we do not celebrate the orgasmous murderers, the lynch mobs, and the Nazi restorers. That's how he described the revolutionaries! I'll be damned. We don't really find words for that. We should also be glad that Tibor Szanyi did not use the term 'anti-revolution'. The problem, honourable left-wing Members, is that Tibor Szanyi's wine steam statement is not a single case, but embodys the attitude of the entire left to 1956. You have a long rap sheet on this case. After all, it is the MSZP that drowned the 50th anniversary in blood, tear gas, rubber bullets, more than one hundred and sixty injured; the leaders were even decorated. After all, it is the MSZP that brings its last slogan from the 1950s, saying, "Let the rich pay!" Mátyás Rákosi should be proud of you. And yet it is this party who refused to attend the Parliament's festive session at all on the anniversary of last year. And we could continue the line for a long time. We do not even open to the question that many of the 56 vampires are still living their retirement years without any liability, as shown by the excellent historian Martin Békés's series of articles. Dear House, This is where the MSZP lasts in October 2017. We didn't think we'd have to say that 27 years after the change of regime, but it looks like this party is the same party. He cannot see 1956 as a symbol of the desire for freedom. With its scandalous attitude, the MSZP, not only Tibor Szanyi, but the MSZP, who suffers this, humiliates those who gave their lives for freedom. The word we're looking for is a scandal. But in the meantime, we found another one, and this is that it's embarrassing. It is a shame that the MSZP in 2017 refuses to stand up for the heroes of 56 and thus the foundations of our current freedom. Another reason for our political community to remember the Pest boys proudly and with dignity, because they have the truth, and they have it, because if it rains, if it blows, the Hungarian people are the people of freedom, and they are proud of the 1956 heroes. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-24-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Orbán democracy, where more and more people are afraid. Mr Staudt Gábor, Member of the Jobbik Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-10-24-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The government recruited so much for the "56 celebrations," and it was said on the part of the governing parties that Hungary is a nation of freedom. This is true, but in Hungary's history, Hungarian freedom had to be protected from both external and internal forces, and foreign governors as well as landlords pose a threat to the freedom of the Hungarian nation. Jobbik believes that neither the governors serving foreign interests nor the vassals building the vassal world are needed by the Hungarian nation. The left-wing governments were clearly governors, served foreign interests in many cases, but the governments of Viktor Orbán built a system of landlords, vassals and vassals in the country, which they wanted to bring back. Since Bibo we know that citizens in democracy and rule of law are not afraid, but you are building on the politics of fear, unfortunately we must say this, and slowly from the mentality of the Kádár era, which said that those who are not against the government were considered not to be against it, are moving slowly to the Rákosi era, and they believe that those who are not with the government are against it, and are trying to build politics and destroy freedom with this mentality. And, of course, those who are against the government must be dealt with. And it's not just opposition politicians that are being targeted, it's the press. Not only must we fight the whole press, but also against the individual press workers, and, of course, the aim here is to deal with it, to make it impossible, to clean it up. There is no such democracy, and it cannot be allowed. However, teachers, civil servants, health workers, law enforcement agencies are afraid to express their views, but they are also public workers, but even the middle and senior managers serving the system, or they are often the main ones, because even though the service is serviced, they can only have a stand-alone opinion and fly. And you know what's tragic about all this? The fact that there is one purpose for the whole system that builds on fear is based on fear: the cover-up of their corrupt operation and the unbroken continuation of corruption. What's it about? Don't you dare say anything when you put out a tender for the winners, don't you dare say anything when the chosen ones win these applications. There should be no one to speak when the accounts are to be reviewed, but do not dare the prosecution in these cases to bring proceedings, either of its own motion or of its own motion. But if, by some miracle, these cases go to court, then they're working on making sure that there's no judge more and more who's willing to judge the Fidesz buddies. Or we could turn it around, make sure someone who's not with the government doesn't judge you. We're there if you look at the polls that most of the Fidesz voters think the government is corrupt, but they forgive you for the appearance of security. Such self-certification can only be seen in dictatorships on the part of the regimes there; yes, there is corruption and fear, but at least there is security. We will also get there, and we can also say that the amendment to the basic law that you have admitted to protect the country has been voted down six times without blinking. They have one problem with it: we would also rule out the possibility of returning the dirty settlement bond business. And that shows you, the real you of the Fidesz. Home is important, of course, very important to you, but after dirty money; their acquisition, theft and retention are always the first, everything else can come after that. But I have some bad news for you: The real lesson of 1956 is that a system can be built in Hungary that is based on fear, but not for long, not in the long term. In the wider sense, the Rákosi era lasted for about eight years, and then was swept away by the anger of the people. And how interesting, you will have eight years next year. I suggest you start packing. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-24-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds on behalf of the Government to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-10-24-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, For the longest time, we are listening to Jobbik's concern for Hungarian democracy. The party, who is suspected to be spying on a foreign country, could work to this day; the party that would have sprinkled commercial TVs with salt, they could also remember this; the party that campaigned as one of the parliamentary parties sitting here against EU membership; the party whose president said in a speech that we were not even a Democrats - your president said - was the party that gave Hungarian public life a round the authorities; the party that has now been completely delivered to a landlord, as you said. Honourable Congressman, Yesterday you held a meeting of 100-200 people, and on this your party president began his speech by agreeing with the government's message that Hungarians are the people of freedom. That's what you said. We're happy to agree on something, but that's pretty much the only thing we agree on these days. Because yesterday's speech by the president of Jobbik was basically a replacement speech for those who would have gone to the united left-wing assembly. Gábor Vona said practically everything, but he told me everything that would have been said at the left-wing meeting if it hadn't been called off in the rain or who knows what. That speech could have been given by Márton Gulyás. Gábor Vona said he had a plan, a personal plan. I would like to tell you that we can very well see that Gábor Vona has a plan and has been working for a long time to implement it. The whole point of this plan is to abandon their former principles out of pure desire for power and raw political calculation, and to completely derail a party that had previously been considered national in terms of its values and objectives. [[11.30]] Don't take it, please, as a compliment when we say that the implementation of the Vina plan is, by the way, quite effective. For example, while we were talking yesterday about migration, we know well how the government's anti-quota referendum initiative was truncated so that they would not vote for the resulting constitutional amendment. By the way, Gábor Vona, on a commercial television, which he would have used to sprinkle with salt, also said that okay, you can talk about the first wave of introduction. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: What did Antal Rogán say about the first wave? The president's ringing the bell.]] Then, another example of their unreasonably irresponsibleness is that they would entrust the wages of Hungarians to an EU chief official, while it was not so long ago when they swore that we would no longer be members - that is, in the Union, you said. Once again, from the parties in Parliament, Jobbik alone has campaigned against EU membership, and now it would throw powers to EU bureaucrats. And to give another fresh example of Jobbik's turns, the government's national consultation was recently attacked in the same week as the Helsinki Committee. All this in the days when the European Parliament voted on it, it took a decision to prove the actuality of the points in the consultation. I would also like to say to you that the European Parliament's commission has also decided on a compulsory quota, without a ceiling, on family reunification, financial sanctions, the involvement of NGOs and the establishment of a resettlement agency. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian constantly intervenes.]] Next comes Jobbik, and he tries to prove, by the way, with the left-wing parties and the LMP that there is no plan. It seems that Gábor Vona needs such actions to be allowed into the liberal club in Budapest, where he begs for support. This ambition, this grant application, has a great price to pay. Because Jobbik is basically, little by little, systematically eliminating everything in its policy, which is a little bit national. And then your party president will ask in his speech on 23 October what Gergely Pongrátz would say about this. Well, that's what we're asking. How about Gergely Pongráz? [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-24-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, From the Group of the KDNP, Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group, spoke before the agenda entitled "Evaluating the Elderly." Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2017-10-24-13	Mr President, Dear House, Let me begin with a quote from László Németh:. In old age this beautiful and sad: one can see too clearly what is true and what is not. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This quote about a wise old man, a wise old man, deserves respect, a tired man in work and child rearing, and a weakened old man in support. It's good for a man, including an old man, to live in a family. The relationship between the grandparent and the granddaughter, this love relationship, would be difficult to replace with someone else. But not only in the family, but also in society, it is necessary to appreciate the elderly by providing financial security for old age. And that's what this is about. This is not a gift, but an obligation, since all active age groups contribute to the retirement of their parents' age groups, just by paying their contributions. The financial appreciation of pensioners is of particular importance in the near future. There are three elements to this. One of them is a correctional pension increase. We know that the increase was 1.6 percent in January and that inflation was 2.6 percent. The difference between the two, the 1 percent, will be the rate of increase in November, of course from January onwards. So, for an average pension, this is about 12 thousand forints. The pension premium, which is the first time pensioners get, looks like this with a complicated calculation system. It is over 3.5 percent of GDP that is required to multiply one quarter of the pension, but up to 20 thousand forints. That's how it comes out again, after multiplying by 0.6 percent, that's also the average of approximately 12 thousand forints. And before Christmas, this year, according to the Prime Minister's announcement, pensioners will receive the Erzsébet voucher, which is 10 thousand, so it is well over 30 thousand for pensioners in November and December. That means their appreciation. Let us have a look back at the real value of pensions. I dare say that during left-wing governments, the value of pensions has always fallen, and during right-wing governments, the value of pensions has increased. What's that got to do with it? Think of the fact that during the period between 94-98 the real value of pensions was reduced by 12 percent during the Horn government, which was restored by the following first Orbán government, because every year there was real value growth, and at the end of the year when it had already made its decision, and not only the government decision, but also the budget coverage, the left-wing government had to pay for it after the change of government. But when the end of their 8 - year cycle was approaching, they did so by withdrawing the 13th month's pension, and the pension rules were also designed to reduce the initial pension by 8 percent. So the left-wing government has again reduced the real value of pensions. And in 2010, when the country was at a low point, we made the promise to preserve the value of pensions, and we did it, and it even increased slightly. So it is safe to say that right-wing governments, just by resolving finances and the situation of the economy, are creating an opportunity to create the financial security of pensioners, elderly people and to provide adequate real value gains. Let me finish again with a quote that is again addressed to the pensioners and the elderly:. It is not the age that counts, but the mind, courage, and self-respect. That's what I wish for all old people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-24-14	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr Péter Harrach, Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-24-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Old people deserve respect. They deserve respect from all other people, government and parliament, as they are the generations of our parents, who, on the one hand, rebuilt the II. After World War II, after the devastation of the 1956 Revolution, this country again with its own two hands. They had a lot to spare for this, but the schools, the hospitals that we went to, where we were born, were born with the work of their hands. This work, this appreciation, is what we need to reflect in all our actions. That is why it is important to speak only in the voice of respect about those who built this country before us. In recent years, the opposition has been trying to take me away from the elderly, to take me away from the pensioners, but Fidesz-KDNP has been able to count on, since we have created security for the elderly. We can remember that before 2010, the Socialists took a month's pension from all Hungarian pensioners, and they did so in the same way that the multinational companies could take out their profits. For example, they did not reduce the profits of foreign-owned utility companies guaranteed by the law adopted by Gyula Horn. It remained a luxury professional for foreign companies, but a month's pension was taken from pensioners the moment they were asked by experts from the World Bank, the IMF or the Brussels Commission from Brussels and Brussels. We can remember that they raised the rent, which was particularly sensitive for the elderly, the price of electricity twice as much, the price of gas tripled. In addition, Ferenc Gyurcsány tried to retortically express what was done in actions when he said that old people love to replace their old wives with younger ones. This showed respect for the elderly during the then MSZP period.After 2010, the government's first task was to make the pension system secure and to preserve the stability of the pension system. Even the outgoing socialist government said that the pension insurance fund missed HUF 200 billion, but the reality was about double that. [[11.40]] This was the hole that had to be patched up and the pension system had to be adapted to ensure long-term sustainability of this measure, with which we can now talk about a stable, closed, secure pension fund. Many may remember that at the end of each year before 2010, the pension fund had to be replaced by tens of billions or even hundreds of billions overall. This is no longer necessary, because the pension fund is stable, its payments are guaranteed in the long term. These measures were supported by some opposition parties at the time, but those who supported it at the time of the elections, Jobbik, that it would do the same, now opposes and attacks the government because of these actions. The most important undertaking of the Fidesz-KDNP was what Mr. Group Leader said was that the value of pensions should be preserved. We were able to do this by creating a legal system in which pensioners can only benefit, because either their pensions retain their value or may have a higher value, because if the planned pension increase is ultimately above the real level of inflation, then the pensioners will receive that difference. And if it's below it, then the government will reverse the difference between inflation and the increase in pensions, so pensioners in this legal system can't go wrong. This is why the current 0.8 per cent pension supplement is available, so the annual pension increase will be 2.4 per cent, which is why one of the November benefits comes, and the other because first of all pensioners in Hungary's history can benefit from the additional performance of the economy, as pensioners in Hungary will receive additional benefits in the form of a pension premium for the first time. Next year we will expect a 3 percent increase in pension, and in December we will deliver a HUF 10 000 voucher to pensioners, as we have done in the last year. Let us not forget that, however, the value of pensions in Hungary is now much better than before 2010. Now an average pension is 70 percent of the average salary. In the past, pensioners had to endure a much higher standard of living, then there was hardly more than half of the salary. We have introduced the. Women 40, which the opposition parties have not supported, but 204 thousand have already taken advantage of. With the job protection action plan, we were able to help work over the age of 55. In the case of older workers in a more vulnerable situation, 7 out of 10 workers can work with this state-supported programme, helping on average 340 thousand older people per year. We also helped pensioners, pensioners who were not followed by Jobbik in their Facebook entries or since the fact that they were insulted by the president of their party by the reduction of the rent, the Erzsébet programme, the expansion of home care or the reduction of the VAT on basic foods. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-24-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Bóna, Member of the Fidesz Group, spoke before the agenda with a title on current issues. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-10-24-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Fellow Members! The Preamble of the Fundamental Law, the National Creed, reads as follows: "We agree with the representatives of the first free Parliament, who said in their first decision that our freedom today came from our revolution in 1956. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Yesterday, for the 61st time, the world remembered the revolution and the fight for freedom in 56. In Hungary, we Hungarians can only do this for the 29th time. During the communist dictatorship, as we know, our national freedom struggle, its heroes, retribution and prison years could only be remembered in secret. Those who earned merit for the nation's freedom during the revolution had to say goodbye to life, personal freedom, or country after the revolution. The representatives of the first free Parliament believed that the Hungarian community, just as a fulfillment of the desire for freedom, could remember those who had won it and raised the foundations of our free existence to the highest possible moral level. Today, we know, as the Fidesz faction said this weekend, that one of the great moral debts of the change of regime, that instead of the Hungarian social democrat traditions being revived, was the successor of the MSZMP in the blood and treason of the revolutionaries in 1956, the MSZP also became the leader of the left in democracy. Almost three decades later, we thought that not only personal overlap, but also ideal kinship, were not so directly between today's MSZP and the Communist state party. The abuse of the 50th anniversary in Gyurcsány, the 2006 police brutality, has spread into the consciousness of the Hungarian people with such elemental force that it cannot be erased from there. Last year, the ignominious statements of Sofia Havas, and this year the online registration of Tibor Szanyi, which quotes the national holiday, disperse our illusions and recaptures the Hungarian social democracy. Four years after the change of regime, the position of the MEP of the Hungarian Socialist Party, a former Karhatalmist Prime Minister, is incompatible with the fundamental values of the democratic rule of law. The position of Fidesz is that if the MSZP no longer truly identifies itself with the betrayal of the revolution by its predecessor, if it considers the memory of the revolutionarys who were killed in the days of the revolution to be preserved and cherished, and if it is now on the side of the independent democratic rule of law against the dictatorship based on Soviet bayonets, Tibor Szanyi would no longer be a member of the MSZP after the 61st anniversary of the revolution in 56. Otherwise, we can take seriously the only statement by Gyula Molnár, president of the MSZP, which exactly rhymes with Károly Grósz's words in 89: the essence of this is that the Party is alive. We can conclude that his spirit is still alive. We know that when freedom is lost, independence is lost, so we are lost ourselves. Yet, 61 years from now, it is a good time to gain strength and to measure precisely the value of our national sovereignty to be preserved. This is the value of the decision of the European Parliament's committee on home affairs, citizenship and justice, which is implementing the Soros plan in practice. Today, it is clear to everyone that the risk of compulsory resettlement quotas is real, even though the representatives of the Hungarian left are trying to deny it in Hungary and in the European Parliament. It is particularly shocking and sad that in the committee the Hungarian left representative, Péter Niedermüller, politician of the Gyurcsány Party, voted in favour of the report. In the report adopted by LIBE, the specific proposals and points already known from the Soros Plan are reflected, as the text contains the need for mandatory distribution and thinks about an automatic, cap-free, infinite process. The report also contains absurd points to distribute migrants arriving in Europe first and only after determining whether they are eligible for any refugee status at all. In addition to reducing national competences, Brussels bureaucrats do not encourage border protection, ignoring the threat of terrorism and the perpetuation of illegal border crossings. That is why I ask all Hungarian citizens who love freedom to participate in the national consultation. Let us not abandon ourselves today and take advantage of freedom of expression. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-24-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-24-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to thank, on behalf of the government, the tens of thousands of people who celebrated the anniversary of the War of Independence at the House of Terror Museum and in hundreds of parts of the country, despite the rainy weather. [[Anita Bering: There were a million people in Kossuth Square!]] Everyone should be thanked, and everyone should be thanked, who has remembered his 56 heroes, whether he is pro-government or opposition sympathizer. October 23rd is an important message for us that we must always fight for our independence; today, of course, our independence and our freedom are being threatened by something else than in the year 56. Today it is not Soviet tanks, but stealthy removal of powers and a failed immigration policy that completely rearranges European relations that is the main threat. I am bringing this to this House because, in fact, the European Parliament commission has taken very, very serious decisions these days, and these plans are more than dangerous. It's worth checking out what they say. In answer to your question, I will tell you that Peter Niedermüller, representing the left, has voted for it, yes, which is why it is scandalous, but it is worth seeing what is in these decisions. Firstly, it has been decided that a permanent mandatory system for the distribution of immigrants should be established. A quota would determine how many immigrants each Member State should receive. This is how the annual target of one million in the consultation can be achieved. Secondly, it was also decided that relocations would be directed to countries that are worst placed to meet quotas. [[11.50]] Even in these countries, procedures should be carried out rather than so far; now we do not need a great deal of science to conclude that this would affect the Visegrád countries the most. Thirdly, immigrants could organise themselves in groups of 30 people. Fourthly, NGOs with a rather opaque financial background would also be involved in resettlement procedures. So now we understand why these organisations do not want to register themselves in Hungary, and we also understand what the speculator meant about the fact that NGOs - and I quote - should be the sponsors of immigration. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Fifthly, it would be easier to unite immigrant families. If an immigrant claims to have a family in a Member State, it would automatically be transferred there. Sixthly, Member States that do not want to participate in this insane plan would be punished by cutting off the EU funds they had previously provided. Congresswoman Márta Demeter was waving papers here, it must have been the Council conclusions. [[Marta Demeter nods.]] I would like to tell you that in those documents there was no mandatory procedure, compulsory introduction. [[Márta Demeter: What are they about?]] But now the European Parliament and the European Commission have violated the law, and instead of the previous proposals on volunteering, they have overwritten them and want to impose a binding plan on us. And if that were not enough, I would like to inform this House that the European Parliament has also taken another decision a few days earlier, the same commission, and the essence of this decision is that, in addition to the distribution of immigrants already here, another system would be set up for resettlement from third countries. These decisions, as I have mentioned, have been taken by a parliamentary commission, but there is still a plenary vote and a debate by the Council of Member States. So, we are at the beginning of a prolonged debate, but it is clear that they have started to implement the plans that are included in the consultation on which the consultation is about. This is another reason why more people should express their views and stand up for Hungary's sovereignty. They just can't put plans like that down our throats. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-24-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr István Szávay, with all due respect, to present our fellow Members who have applied for a speech after the agenda today. Here you go.
u2017-10-24-21	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Zoltán Varga Simeon, Jobbik; Péter Hoppál, Fidesz; László Kiss, MSZP; Sándor Burány, MSZP; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Szebestyén Vágó, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Gergely Kulcsár, Jobbik; Lajos Kepli, Jobbik; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik; István Szávay, Jobbik.
u2017-10-24-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's 11:53. We're gonna start questioning. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: When can the children of Kaba exercise in the new gymnasium? It's an address. The question will be answered on behalf of Mr Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, on behalf of the Prime Minister, on behalf of Mr János Fónagy. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-10-24-23	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, In April 2014, the government supported 25 schools and 26 gymnasiums under the National Public Education Infrastructure Development Programme. I would like to highlight one from my own constituency, the construction of the Kaba gym, which should have been delivered in December 2016; unfortunately, so far it has not been possible. 2017. CHAPTER IX I asked Mr. Secretary of State the last question about the gym in Kaba, and I would like to ask you again, Mr. Secretary of State, when the children of Kaba can finally exercise in the recovered, now recovered gymnasium. No one understands what's going on in Kaban, it's true that IX. On the 25th of October, Mr. Secretary of State told me the following things, which I was unable to respond to at the time:, the children will exercise in the autumn, by the way. By the way, it is absolutely true that they are going to exercise in the fall, because they are still exercising, only in many cases in the yard, even if it rains, because even the gym wasn't handed over. Please check the calendar to see when the autumn months fall. 'Secretary,' said he. I asked this question again, Mr Secretary of State, because I would like to say that there is only one month left in the autumn months, and just to be right, Mr Secretary of State, I would very much like it if, by 1 September in school, children could not use their new gymnasium, and they could not use it for a year, compared to December 2016, then we would like to see that, since 2014, they have been awarded this source, they have had the children they deserve, and they do not have to continue to exercise in this state. Then I look forward to hearing from the Secretary of State when the children of Kaba can actually use the gymnasium. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-24-24	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-24-25	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and During socialist governance, there was no national programme aimed at developing a classroom, gym or school. Schools and teachers were closed in 381 places before 2010 instead of educational developments. The current government considers the healthy mental, mental and physical development of children as a priority, and therefore, within the framework of the programme mentioned by you, the government is working to create their infrastructure conditions. In response to your question: the technical transfer of the Kaba gym took place on 13 September 2017, the facility has a final entry permit from 18 October 2017, so I understand that there is no obstacle to the use of the gym. Thanks to the continued interest of the congresswoman, I will arrange for her invitation to attend the ceremony. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-24-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Justice:. The name and the leaders may change, but it seems that the business is eternal: do you think it is legal if the Hungarian Executives Faculty enters into suspicious communications contracts for a large amount of HUF 2 billion? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-10-24-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I have repeatedly raised the ill-fated state of the independent judicial enforcement system, and you have made a number of promises to settle the situation. We waited patiently for the news of success, but instead we got a terrifying disease. Atlatszo.hu received some invoices last year, according to which in June 2016 the faculty paid HUF 725 million for communication tasks to two entrepreneurs: HUF 300 million for the production of websites and brochures, and HUF 425 million for the production and broadcasting of a so-called mini program series. After that, the Transparent asked about the organization's more detailed management, but of course it doesn't go without a court case. As a result of the final judgment, it turned out that last year HUF 1.45 billion and another HUF 800 million were spent on information campaigns, and even a HUF 7.2 million contract with Századvég was available for study writing. In the light of these figures, it is very understandable why you are afraid to release management data, so I might say that the known spending could also raise the criminal case of misappropriation. For the above reasons, I ask the Secretary of State: did they know that the Hungarian Court Executive Faculty spent more than HUF 2.2 billion on communication expenses in about a year and a half? Will there be any consequences? And finally, do you not think that rather than suspicious communication spending, this very significant amount could have been used to help those who have suffered foreign exchange credit? I look forward to these answers from the Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-24-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[12.00]]
u2017-10-24-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, There's a little bit of picantria when Jobbik talks about suspicious contracts, when we know that his posters are surrounded by illicit party financing and VAT fraud. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Is that the question? He's swinging around yours!]] but I will, of course, try to answer to the substance of the question. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] We all know that the system of judicial enforcement has recently been redesigned by the Ministry, thus eliminating anomalies arising from the operation of the previous bad structure. At the same time, in the Chamber of Executives, in the knowledge that the majority of Hungarian society are not aware of their rights, their obligations, such as the foreign exchange credit crisis generated by the socialists, in which the prevention of eviction meant years of hard work for the current government and parliament, the executive board decided to use an enlightening campaign to inform the debtors. In this context, films and brochures that help debtors to exercise their rights, how they can make use of it, how they can obtain payment opportunities. You can see the results of this from the feedback. I would also like to say that these spendings are not charged to the state budget, but to the budget of the faculty, and they are not spending these funds on previous princely assemblies, family luxury holidays, but are spent on the behalf of debtors. Of course, it would be a solution to the preservation of the executive faculty's assets or to reduce spending if Jobbik offered the posters that he had recently acquired to help inform citizens of public affairs free of charge thanks to Jobbik. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-24-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:. How does Eximbank enchant public money? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-10-24-31	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Many countries in the world use tied aid loans as a tool for international development. Obviously, it does not surprise anyone at the same time that a generally appropriate tool is not used in a targeted way, as is the custom of the Hungarian government, or is only doing so and exclusively for its own private business purposes. It is a real Hungaricum that investment and development support programmes in other states are being used for the billion-dollar profits of buddy companies and for the foreign position of Lőrinc Mészáros, which is now an export commodity. Hungarian diplomacy opens eximbank credit lines to developing countries that should in principle serve development investment in the beneficiary regions. Without the need for completeness, the government has already granted credit lines through Eximbank to Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Laos, Sri Lanka, Indonesia, Vietnam and Mongolia, and the opening of credit lines is ongoing. These are based on the political decision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Therefore, it is also important to stress that the programs are supervised by Bálint Tombor, who is the brother of Árpád Habony's creditor, András Tombor. We still don't know what's happening with the Sri Lankan water cleaners, the Vietnamese population manifest system, the oncology hospital or the reconstruction of the Mongolian biocombine. What we do know is that Eximbank opens these credit lines, the beneficiary countries call it on request in Budapest, then conclude contracts with companies linked to Árpád Habony, Antal Rogán and Lőrinc Mészáros. As it usually is during your activities, the story stops here. So I ask Mr Secretary of State what projects have been carried out so far from the credit lines granted by Eximbank, and what is the status of the loans under repayment. How much Hungarian taxpayers' money has been called off by the beneficiary governments so far, and on what basis will the Hungarian companies participating in the project be selected? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-10-24-32	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by State Secretary Levente Magyar. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-10-24-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, allow me to clarify some of the false statements in your speech. First of all, his personal information about both government control and contractors is neither current nor false. My proposal is for the honourable Member to be informed of the beneficiaries of the programmes, who or who is in the ministry overseeing these issues, in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The basic idea of the programme, which is to provide state loans to countries less developed than the one in the market, is to make investments, improvements for which they do not have their own resources. So this is not a donation, it is not a free service; it is a loan, although it is undoubtedly carried out under very favourable conditions. What improvements the beneficiaries make from this loan, what companies they want to work with in this process, which are companies whose services they use, is perfectly their discretionary right, since these decisions take place according to their own internal rules of procedure, their own internal laws. So the Hungarian state does not tell us who to work with, nor does the Hungarian state tell us whether a hospital or a population register should be built somewhere. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The programmes started in 2004, so now we have a good decade of experience. I can tell you that in a number of countries - I would like to give you detailed information about this, and then in some other form without time - we have carried out successful projects in many countries for the satisfaction of partner countries, we have been accounted for, and financial performance is also carried out according to the order. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-24-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Alpár Gyopáros, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: When will the European Commission launch infringement proceedings against itself? It's an address. Congressman Alpár Gyopáros has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-10-24-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The European Commission can open a so-called infringement procedure against EU Member States and has launched this procedure against Member States on a number of occasions, which is not special in itself. In general, the situation will be clarified and resolved in the course of the procedure. The infringement procedure becomes interesting when it is launched for political reasons. This is the case for many of the infringement proceedings against Hungary in recent years. The most interesting infringement proceedings, which, in my opinion, were launched against Hungary for political reasons, because of the quota issue, because of the education law and the civil law. It's interesting to note that George Soros has all three eyes. Most likely, they want to punish Hungary for its own good. It is also interesting that the Commission has generously waived the opening of proceedings in cases of breaches of obligations by certain Member States. Does France or Greece, for example, have different rights and obligations than Hungary? According to the Latin proverb: quod licet Iovi, non licet bovi, i.e. what is free for Jupiter, shouldn't the little ox do? I definitely disagree, and I do not want some people in Brussels to be considered an ox, and others to be Jupiter, even if the European Commission does so for the sake of Jean-Claude Juncker's buddy George Soros. The European Commission is supposed to be a guardian of the treaties and not a breakthrough in their borders. I therefore ask whether it would be at least morally justified for the European Commission to initiate infringement proceedings against itself because of the constant pressure and breakthrough of contractual borders. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-24-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Alpár Gyopáros has just asked Mr Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, to answer his question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-24-37	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, the question of the Member is absolutely current, because it is clear that Brussels is using the infringement procedure as a method of dispute resolution of a political nature. The legal procedure that would essentially serve the purpose of guaranteeing full equality of rights for the 508 million EU citizens in all areas of the Union guaranteed by the EU's Treaties. On the other hand, that's not what's happening. What we see is that the European Commission is trying to use this as a means of political pressure against Member States that represent exactly the people in Brussels for whom they have been elected. This can be seen, inter alia, in the form and content of the initiation of infringement proceedings. Hungary is roughly in the middle of the field of infringement procedures, but the Commission is seen to act in an incorrect manner. The Commission, whose President greets György Soros with dignity to Heads of State or Government, who is distinguished by one thing from any Hungarian or EU citizen: the property behind him. We believe that these infringement procedures are problematic in a number of ways. On the one hand, they have a problem with the question of who the European Community Government, the European Commission, is in essence representing: the interests of some billionaires or the 508 million citizens who essentially gave them this mandate? [[12.10]] The other issue, which is why this whole issue is problematic, is that if there is any legal dispute between the Member State and the European Commission, very strong procedural rules should be followed. On the other hand, Brussels does not give Hungary the respect and the right to defend itself and to put forward arguments against the Commission's claims in a fair legal procedure, but gives Hungarians a limited opportunity to do so within a reduced deadline. However, this does not discourage us, we will always stand up for the interests of the Hungarian people, even if Brussels is playing with false cards in this respect. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-24-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member László Kiss, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. What is the reason why the extension of tram 1 is cancelled? It's an address. Congressman László Kiss has the floor, please.
u2017-10-24-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I have already asked this House a few questions on this matter, precisely because earlier it was said that the tram line would be extended, and now it seems that this is not the case, although this is the investment that would link the Óbuda cemetery and its surroundings to the III Cemetery. With the busiest parts of the district, and in the case of a suitable trail, the Esztergom railway could also be given a fast and modern transfer option. This already overloaded Vienna road could be reduced, but in general it would also improve the role of the Esztergom railway in public transport in the capital. However, it seems that these aspects were few and that the investment was not carried out. However, the reasons for this can only be speculated; there is a number of news about why not in the district. One is that István Tarlós himself blocked the project. By the way, in a rather strange interview, you admitted that this was one of many painful decisions. To be clear, and to avoid any fog in the head, I would like to ask the honourable Secretary of State whether István Tarlós is telling the truth that he has prevented this investment. If so, how? What discussions have taken place in this case between the capital and the state, and can it ever be hoped that the extension of the tram line will take place? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2017-10-24-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-24-41	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Based on the annual development framework of the Integrated Transport Operational Programme 2014-20, around HUF 10 billion of development aid is available for the development of the External Vienna Road tramline. The funds above the aid amount must be made available by the Municipality of Budapest. The municipality decided to stop the project by proposing to redeploy additional low-floor tram and trolleybus vehicles. If there are any unpredictable benefits that may result in the return of the project, the extension of tram 1 may take place after 2020. I can assure you, Member, that the Government and the capital will do everything in its power to further improve the quality of service of public transport. However, I must add that the scope and possibilities of the bodies involved in Budapest's transport development are fundamentally influenced by the need to ensure the renovation of metro line 3 which had been destroyed before 2010 and by the fact that HUF 167 billion was involved in the abuses and irregularities detected by the European Anti-Fraud Office in connection with Metro 4 investments in the last 26 years' biggest corruption scandal. Please take these into account when assessing my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-24-42	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, notary of the National Assembly, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy a question: "Does the government support the introduction of a minimum wage? It's an address. Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, the notary of the Parliament, is the subject. Here you go.
u2017-10-24-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In view of the fact that the public service pay table has contained unchanged items since 2008, but in the meantime the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage have increased, two thirds of the pay classes and grades in the table of the Budget Act have lost meaning. Employees from each department of payment may work for a minimum wage throughout their lives, but wage differences between classes may also be completely lost. Thus, a career-starter with secondary education earns the same amount as a graduate employee with an academic degree. We are convinced that not only public employees, but also the underpaid and wage tension that is emerging throughout the public sector and which is already inoperative, should be dealt with as a matter of substance. One way to do this could be to introduce a minimum wage and a minimum wage for higher education workers, in addition to a guaranteed minimum wage for secondary education. It is clear that the resulting extra expenditure has, in a sustainable way, been covered in the budget, only a new approach to economic policy and a Christian system of values in the country's leadership would be needed. But it is also clear that the failure to take this step will only make our country's strode worse. So I ask you: does the government support the introduction of a minimum salary? I'd like to ask you a worthy answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-24-44	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We will hear the answer from Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-24-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government's economic policy measures have created an increase in actions in Hungary. This is true of the sphere of competition and of the public sector. As far as the public sector is concerned, it is not the career models that you expect, according to your degree - that is, that you have a degree, a diploma, a professional worker's certificate, eight general or under or even a technician - that are professional career models. Professional industry career models include who has a legal relationship or a degree. Thus, the pay table is classified according to the sector in which the person is working. I do not think it is necessary to tell you that there has been a significant wage arrangement in all sectors of the public sector. [[Mrs. Loránt Violinist intervenes.]] [[Mrs. Loránt Violinist intervenes.]] and career model introduction. 50 percent in the Hungarian defence, the same in the case of teachers, where there is also discrimination according to qualifications and quality work, the National Assembly also decided on the settlement in the autumn of 2015 in the positions of senior teachers, researchers and teachers. The same is true in the health sector, depending on whether you work according to a medical or specialist wage bill. (Mrs. Loránt Violinás intervenes. ) These regulations provide separate pay signs and classifications for all graduates. The same applies to young specialists' support programmes or to the social, cultural or tax-based career model. The government also settled the wage conditions for those working in the competitive sector with the six-year wage agreement. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I think the government has done everything in its economic policy performance. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: Well, no.]] to settle both in the public sector and in the competition sector the wages and the graduates' wages. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-24-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, who is right? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, the question will be answered by Minister Zoltán Balog, Minister of Human Resources, on behalf of the Minister of Human Resources, Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Here's to Congressman Ákos Hadházy. [[12.20]]
u2017-10-24-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I find it a little odd and I am sorry about the response, as I wanted to ask the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, but I do not wonder, since it is no wonder that they want to keep you as far away from this matter as possible. Two weeks ago, I asked the Prime Minister for a resolution on whether Minister Lazarus was right about the assessment of a suspected corruption procurement. At the Public Procurement Decision Committee, the public procurement notice and the amendment thereto, the contracting authority of which was the State Health Supply Centre, were challenged. In its October decision, the Public Procurement Decision annulled everything: the invitation to tender, the complete documentation and all the decisions of the contracting authority, as well as a fine of HUF 5 million on the State Health Service Board. The question therefore seems to have been settled, and Mr Lazarus was right, and not you, Secretary of State of Retvári. In this corruption-suspected public procurement, he declared punishment from the author's side. In the meantime, there is another case: again, the ÁEEK was punished for HUF 30 million. However, the Prime Minister was very nervous when I asked him about this question, and, as usual, he cut instead of answering, and he called me a corrupter, and then closed his outburst by asking for an investigation, asking for an investigation. I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, and I ask you to answer this: did Viktor Orbán actually ask for an inquiry on the basis of this request, or did he instruct anyone to examine the possibility that I was the most corrupt person in this Parliament? Which organization would conduct the investigation in this case? Is there, as a matter of fact, any proceedings in progress in connection with the call in question, the Prime Minister's call? Is there an internal or external inquiry into the State Health Care Centre? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and these destroyed public procurements? Thank you very much.
u2017-10-24-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds on behalf of the government. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-10-24-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, A Member's investigation of conflicts of interest is clearly a matter for the Parliament. You did a very surprising thing when you said the name of a foreign-owned company, and in your speech you asked the government why that foreign-owned company did not win a public procurement. This is not customary in the walls of Parliament. It is obviously everyone's job - whether it is a pro-government or an opposition representative - to control executive power. That's what our constitutional arrangement is all about. But you have no authority to do so, nor have the voters voting for you sent you here to speak on behalf of an American, French, English or German company, and ask the government why these foreign companies do not win public procurement. The fact that the Hungarian public procurement system is in place and that the appropriate controls are in place is also indicated by the case you raised, although it was not entirely the decision you made, since the arbitration panel has taken a decision to terminate the appeal procedure, which means that it will terminate these procedures for both appeals. But it shows that if there is any irregularity somewhere, we have a system of redress that eliminates it, precisely to make the spending of public funds as transparent as possible. We were talking about purchasing from a Hungarian national source here anyway. Fortunately, in the healthcare sector, the purchase of assets that can be realised is worth 100 billion, not only with EU money, but also with Hungarian money. In your case, the Parliament will certainly examine this conflict of interest issue, but it is more than a talkative, honourable Member, that, by the way, while you often say today that you are fighting for the transparency of public funds, you have not spoken about metro 4 in the biggest corruption case. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy: That's not true!]] He didn't hold one press conference, he didn't say anything. What is the biggest corruption case is not important to you, but in all other cases where it is not completed procedures or interrupted procedures, of course, you have spoken many times where there are much smaller purchases [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the persons concerned. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-24-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman János Pócs, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture: "The opposition has failed in the field! It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-10-24-51	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, On 17 October, the Constitutional Court decreed that the land for farmers! The Programme and the provisions on the use of revenue from it do not conflict with the Fundamental Law of Hungary. Yes, the decision relates to the programme that provided 30,000 farmers with land ownership. 30,000 farmers were helped to stabilise and strengthen their economies at a time when the future of the common agricultural policy becomes uncertain; when the EU's seed countries are wondering whether agricultural subsidies could be used to manage the migration crisis. Strengthening and supporting people living in agriculture is crucial. And, yes, with such tools and the delivery of farmers to the ground. Well, this program was attacked by the opposition before the Constitutional Court, not for the first time. However, the Constitutional Court - as it is now - has always confirmed the land for farmers! , the pros and cons of the program. It is difficult to say why the opposition is trying to discredit it and why it is attacking this programme, which serves the interests of Hungarian farmers. The first attack was led by Jobbik. In the end, the party supported the purchase of land by foreigners with its action at that time. It has now been achieved by the LMP initiative; it appears that it has sought to destroy the programme. Did the opposition prefer Balliberal land policy when the national interest was betrayed, and the Hungarian land was handed over to foreigners, speculators, large owners? During a thorough examination of the Constitutional Court, he found that the land was for farmers! The use of the revenues of the program does not conflict with the Fundamental Law, and he called on Parliament to supplement the National Earth Fund Act with the incomes in question. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I ask the Secretary of State: what does the government consider to be the result of the opposition's initiative? What is the significance of the Constitutional Court decision? Is the government ready to supplement the National Earth Fund Act? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. István Józsa: Ask the Secretary of State.]]
u2017-10-24-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the question raised will be Mr Bitay Márton Örs, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-24-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for bringing this up here in Parliament. I'm hoping that you might be on the subject right now. In several ways, the opposition attacked not only the earth's programme, but also the Land Traffic Act itself, the National Land Fund Management Act. I do not understand, and at the moment I cannot explain why, in a successful programme, the opposition has no interest, why it does not see political results in the possibility of joining and being happy with the farmers. In any case, I think it made so much sense here, as we approach the elections, that we can clearly see that rural Hungary, the farmers, can only count on the Fidesz government. The opposition can only hope for something that will help the great estate, or possibly from the owners who have now bought these lands honestly, they would try to take them back by various laws. I am very pleased that the Constitutional Court has also put an end to this issue. It did not find any fundamental law to be contrary to the past. He made two small comments on the future, which we would like to remedy with legislation, at the moment when there will be a viable opposition willing to hold a debate in which two-thirds can be amended. Until then, unfortunately, even we cannot meet this challenge. What the government is hoping for is whether the opposition's attitude changes: I think that the government does not hope for anything. We are pleased to note that there were fewer people at their general meetings on 23 October than there are here in Parliament. I think that's a snap answer to the policy they've been pursuing for four years, by the way. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And I hope it's made more clear to the farmers that Fidesz is the only one they can count on. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-24-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member István Józsa, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister for National Development:. Will the Kelenföld noise barrier ever be built? It's an address. Congressman István Józsa has the floor, please.
u2017-10-24-55	Well, thank you very much. I wanted to ask the Minister, but I see that he is not present, so I would like you to say something encouraging about the noise barrier between the Őrmező and Kelenföldi railway station. [[12.30]] So, in order to protect the people of Őrmező, we really need this noise barrier to the railroad from the railway. Three years ago, I tabled an amendment to each proposal for a budget law to meet the demands of the Guardians, which could build this noise barrier from the railway. These proposals were to build a noise barrier on the side of the Kelenföld railway station from Őrmező, which would serve the peace of thousands of families in the residential area. There must be many people familiar with the specific location of the Őrmező: on one side one of the busiest motorways in Central Europe, the incoming section of M1-M7, and on the other side a very busy railway line, Kelenföld Railway Station. Next to the latter, there is no noise barrier, so all freight trains and many passenger trains from the Balkans and Eastern Europe to the west are pulled away just a few hundred metres from the windows. I consider the request of the families concerned to be very important and justified, so I ask you to answer the questions of the state secretary of the field. Will the very necessary noise barrier ever be built? If so, when can you expect it? And if you don't, what's the reason for that? The other side is the railway station. What will be the fate of the Kelenföld Railway Station building? Will it ever be renewed, or will the conditions that can hardly be called the Balkans remain? Please give me your answer and a proper promise. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-24-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-24-57	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I would also like to answer the question of a Member who did not participate in the Hungarian railway debt of more than HUF 300 billion before 2010. I'm sure it would cost more noise protection if it weren't for this debt - otherwise it would be successfully reduced to 64 billion by the end of 2016. By the way, the specific question: there are several complex rail developments in the region. The first stage of the modernisation of the Kelenföld-Puszabolcs railway line, which is currently being completed in the construction phase by 2019, is the most important, where the complete reconstruction takes place for a length of 21 kilometers, so the noise shielding walls are built on both sides of the track for a total of 14 kilometers. The second is that the renovation of the Southern rail bridge is currently in the planning phase, and on 7 September the NIF announced a result in public procurement, so the planning can begin. By the way, in the parts that you object to, the data measured so far have not reached the limit, and the question of noise protection can be re-examined when designing the reconstruction of the Kelenföld-Budaörs railway line. Where necessary, it may be implemented within the framework of the project I referred to earlier. The Kelenföld Railway Station will be rebuilt or other measures taken after the necessary decisions have been taken. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-24-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister's Office:. Will there be any help for the municipalities? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, on behalf of Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, who is competent and competent on the subject, the question will be answered by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-10-24-59	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Members, Dear Secretary of State, National phenomenon is the increase in construction prices and related labour costs, resulting in a significant increase in the costs of planned or already started investments. The increase also affects a number of municipalities that have won EU tender, so-called TOP money, for their planned investments. In their case, they should increase their own resources for development to an unforeseen extent. At the time of the submission of the applications, the municipalities were still expecting lower investment costs, so many municipalities have to pay up to tens of millions of forints of unplanned additional self-force. In most cases, in terms of the budgetary situation of the municipalities, the difference is very difficult to pay or is not possible at all. However, the winning proposals have not been granted favourable treatment by accident, but are about improvements and programmes that have been waiting for a long time to be implemented and are absolutely necessary and useful. The unexpected increase in construction costs should not be allowed to take away the possibility of urban development. Recently in my constituency, Tapolca has also won an application for the energy efficiency upgrade of the Batsányi János High School, with HUF 290 million. Even at the time of the submission of the tender, lower amounts were calculated than the current one, and it is not yet known how much cost the municipality will be charged. That is why I would ask the Secretary of State what measure the government is planning to take to help municipalities, and whether the State will take over the payment of additional costs if the municipality is not able to do so on its own initiative, thereby endangering the implementation of the tender. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-24-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-24-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Member's question was given the title of whether he would be able to help the municipalities. I can assure the Member that the municipalities have help: the government is a committed believer of the local government, and the government's activity, the government's policy, has helped the municipalities so far. By financing tasks, by rethinking the division of tasks between municipalities and the state, we ensured that municipalities could accept budgets without credit, so that we freed them from borrowing constraints, debt spirals, we took over HUF 1369 billion of debt, which ensures the municipalities that they do not have to spend their revenues on debt repayment, but that they can use this money as a self-reliance for their own strong improvements or tender. In the case of non-indebted municipalities, 1170 municipalities, we gave development aid, which was fresh money for resource development, of which the municipalities were able to start and implement countless improvements. [[Lajos Rig: You're not answering the question!]] In addition, we provide operational support to the municipalities in addition to budgetary standards, we provide resources for the purchase of social fuel, we provide funds for small development in the case of settlements under two thousand inhabitants, and we provided HUF 7.4 billion for the development of municipal tasks only this year. The question expressed by the Member is also a recognition in which he expressed it. [[Lajos Rig: But you're not answering the question, Mr. Secretary. Top tender! TOP!]] that the EU Development Programme [[Lajos Rig: You're not answering the question! The president's ringing the bell.]] in which we supported the municipalities, a good direction, because we perform the necessary tasks. I can assure the Member that the municipalities can count on the Hungarian government. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Lajos Rig: You absolutely didn't answer the question!]]
u2017-10-24-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development: " Will Hungary have a climate strategy? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-10-24-63	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, For the third year, the Orbán government has been playing peacock dance with the national climate strategy. We do not know the reason, perhaps they are afraid that if they started to deal with climate protection in a meaningful way, it would harm the interests of the multinational companies they loved in Fidesz's care, and of the party's economic circles that pocket a large proportion of the Hungarian economy. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the stakes here are much higher than the profit prospects of the car manufacturers and Lőrinc Mészáros next year: you are putting the future of the country at risk by stalling. The strategy had already been prepared before the Paris climate summit, so that they would not be ashamed of the world, were submitted and then withdrawn inexplicably. Now it is said to have been ready again for months, but when Parliament can negotiate, accept, there is still no news. [[12.40]] Hungary is one of the most vulnerable European countries to the negative effects of climate change. One of the main causes of the current migratory pressure on Europe is drought and a reduction in agricultural products linked to climate processes. The Hungarian government has neither a reason nor a right to ignore climate change in a manner that is appropriate to its weight. Therefore, please inform me when Parliament can finally discuss a national climate change strategy, consistent with scientific results, capable of influencing social and economic processes. Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2017-10-24-64	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We will hear the answer to your question from Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-24-65	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Suddenly I had to look back and see if I could hear this comment from the socialists. [[Erzsébet Schmuck laughs.]] Because after its content and its sound, it is very similar to that. By the way, Hungary ratified the Paris Agreement adopted in December 2015, first in spring 2016, within the European Union, with a unanimous parliamentary decision, which clearly shows Hungary and the government's commitment to combating climate change. Immediately after the ratification of the agreement, the government started to develop a second national climate change strategy and submitted it to the Parliament in May this year. The strategy on climate change is therefore on the right track in Hungary. This year, climate change platforms in the county and capital have been established and the development of county climate change strategies has started within the framework of the operational programmes for environmental and energy efficiency. Following the adoption of the second National Climate Change Strategy, an action plan will also be drawn up, setting out the measures to achieve the objectives set out in the Strategy with specific deadlines. Therefore, this is not about the peacock dance you have called, and our country deals with climate change issues in substance and in particular. By the way, on 5 July 2017, Hungary concluded the internal ratification process of the Kigali amendment of the Montreal Protocol between the countries of the world and the Member States of the European Union. Your accusations therefore have no substance and no specific professional basis. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-24-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister for National Development, who should act? It's an address. Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-10-24-67	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I am now addressing you with a problem affecting the environment of my city, which is about to be invested in the century. We know of the existence of Paks, which is heavily affected both in terms of cellar and loss wall problems, in the area of nearly 2,000 cellars, and the length of the high places threatening to collapse is 27 kilometres. On December 20, last year, a large amount of gas fell on the road in Route 6, between Dunaköglőd and Paks, at mile marker 107, resulting in a half-track road lock to this day, and a speed-limit indicator controls traffic. It's a main road, Highway 6. It's been almost a year - who doesn't do their job? Who should take steps to make Highway 6 fully viable again? Where can the population whose wealth and physical integrity are threatened by the spruce wall at the end of their courtyard? The settlement is surrounded by the splinter, and we all know that, but who doesn't do anything? Who's supposed to deal with the back wall? Who's to prepare it? Who would have to take steps to stop the population from getting excited and to travel normally on Route 6? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-10-24-68	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. State Secretary János Fónagy will answer the question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-24-69	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I assure you that the Hungarian Road will monitor, monitor, and perform fully the tasks required by the Authority. After the collapse on 19 December 16, the road operator quickly closed the section concerned and began to remove the rubble. The mining department of the Baranya County Government Office has turned to the Ministry of National Development to finance the restoration of the coastal fall, declared as a force majeure event. In May 17 the development portfolio ordered the preparation and approval of the export plans of the necessary protective equipment. The Magyar Közút has compiled professional documentation on the design of the defence, and the preparation of the procurement procedure for the choice of the designer is ongoing. The financing of the implementation of the defence will be decided by the authorisation plan. The current government's commitment to the state of domestic transport infrastructure is well indicated by the fact that we have undertaken to build the most advanced road network in Central Europe by building 900 kilometers of new motorways from EU and domestic sources. This 900 kilometers will be built, unlike the fact that your party's former politician, as Prime Minister, has led the country on 800 kilometers of new highways. The answer to your question, therefore, is that you, Congresswoman, should act. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-24-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Agriculture: "Do you realise that the efforts so far have not been sufficient to protect the interests of vineyards? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-10-24-71	[[No sound.]] Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, This year's harvest season is almost over, and the sad situation has come to a number of...
u2017-10-24-72	My apologies, Mr. Minister is present for the answer.
u2017-10-24-73	Oh, I'm very honored, thank you very much. [[Intercoms: The sound system! There's no sound! Dr. Bence Rétvári: You didn't even put on the sound. You can start over. There's a chance for a fresh start.]]
u2017-10-24-74	I'd like you to put the microphone on, Congressman. We'll wait for him to put it on. [[Gregory Wolf puts his microphone on.]] Reset time, please. Mr. Gergely Farkas has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-10-24-75	Thank you very much for the floor. This year's harvest season is coming to an end, and the sad situation is that this year will end with losses for many families of vineyards, especially in the Great Plain. Unfortunately, buying-in prices have decreased in several cases compared to last year, with some varieties not even covering the cost of production. Think of the situation where a farmer wrote, as every year, all the editions of the year, and then, in the counting of the grapes, it turns out to him that this year they had lost their production of grapes. Many times, without even counting his own work into expenses. Unfortunately, the fact is that the price of grapes can be significantly influenced by three or five larger buyers. These purchasers do not take into account the interests of vineyards, if their profit interests so require, they replace Hungarian grapes with cheaper foreign goods. Jobbik has been saying for a long time that, in the interests of producers, purchasers should have a contractual relationship with them, guaranteeing a fair price for the grapes produced. Although we have seen efforts to do so in recent times, unfortunately, the contractual conditions of the National Council of Mountains have not fulfilled the expectations attached to it. It is therefore necessary to introduce new rules on sales and purchases, as the current rules are in practice detrimental to many vineyards. In order to improve the situation of producers in the longer term and to adequately represent their own interests, it would be necessary to establish at least a well-functioning, strong cooperatives established per wine region. There are successful cooperatives in several countries in Europe, bringing together one agricultural sector. The creation of such vineyards would require, on the one hand, the establishment of an appropriate legal environment from the State and, on the other hand, the provision of resources for start-up and subsequent operation. Dear Minister, Does the government see that the attempts so far have not been sufficient to protect the interests of the vineyards? Are there plans to support the start-up of cooperatives bringing together vineyards? And what other measures would I take to prevent a year's work from ending with losses? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-24-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Sándor Fazekas. Here you go, Minister. [[12.50]]
u2017-10-24-77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, For the time being, all I see is that - not arguing your good intentions - you are not well prepared for this complex and obviously very employment of producers. [[György Sziâlágyi: We want to hear facts!]] I would like to add some facts to your knowledge and to the knowledge of fellow Members who are so excited to intervene. Dear Parliament, It must be stated that the 2017 harvest appears in both quantity and quality above the average of recent years, although the weather has put the plantations to the test and has caused farmers a lot of problems. So it is important that the harvest, if the harvest is good, is successful. Obviously, it's too early to cut the scales. From the point of view of whether harvests can be considered effective, prices are of paramount importance. Since there has been a local government in the wine sector for many years, through the National Council of Mountains, there is a conciliation process between wine producers and winemakers, the government has too much to say about this. So here, the government, the FM, can make sure that the frameworks are provided so that those affected, that is, producers and winemakers, can come to an agreement. The National Council of Mountains decided to introduce binding contractual relations in the framework of market organisation measures. I trust that this solution will be useful. If we can contribute to the development of the legal environment on the part of the wallet, we will, of course, do so. However, imports are minimal, because in the neighbouring countries - one more concrete thing, honourable Member - there is no surplus of products that would be a major problem on the Hungarian market, and even we are exporting grapes to the surrounding markets, and I hope that wine will also be available in the coming period. The following is the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture introduced a number of mitigations and facilitations for cooperatives in April 2017. It is not up to us, we welcome and support the willingness to join forces. So I trust that the government's measures will improve the situation, as the spirit of planting grapes has been greatly strengthened over the past period, with many applicants for planting plants. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-24-78	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, would you like to ask the Minister of National Economy a question:. Would the Government be willing to participate in the development of the national minimum programme for older people? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, the question will be answered by Minister Zoltán Balog, Minister of Human Resources, on behalf of the Minister of Human Resources, Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-10-24-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, We're constantly listening to the pension propaganda from the government. They claim that the purchasing value of pensions has been preserved and that pension supplement and pension premium will be paid in November this year. In fact, the last time they finished this, they were handing out the Christmas Elisabeth vouchers to pensioners again this year. As usual, there is a huge gap between government claims and reality. The preservation of the purchasing value of pensions is not even true because the government does not increase pensions by means of pensioner inflation. In addition, the pension minimum will be frozen for a decade next year at 28 500 HUF. Why are the lowest pensions not subject to inflation-following pension increases? The November pension supplement is also based on a scam. You deliberately underdesigned inflation and withheld the statutory increase for pensioners throughout the year. Regarding the pension premium, the reason why pensioners receive only above 3.5 per cent of GDP growth is withheld. Instead of a social pension correction program, they hand out Elisabeth's vouchers. The LMP was the first to join the proposals of the National Retirement Parliament. We stand to have a national minimum programme for older people, which includes the legal guarantees that ensure a decent living for the elderly, the care and security they deserve. We consider it necessary, among other things, to increase the minimum pension to HUF 50,000, to raise a fairer pension and to abolish rules restricting work. Is the government willing to participate in the development of a national programme for the elderly? That is what I am looking forward to, Mr Secretary of State's reply. Thank you.
u2017-10-24-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman, I apologize. I just looked at Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, and his masculinity clearly determined his appearance. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-24-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, In 2010, we agreed to preserve the value of every pensioner's pension. You've made various accusations. We've raised pensions by 23.1 percent. Compared to this, we say that it is 9.5 per cent compared to a retired consumer basket, so almost 10 per cent is the excess that the value of these pensions has increased, so it is actually worth nearly 10 per cent more than the purchase in the store. But we also know that an increase of 23.1 percent can bring about a 9.5 percent increase in living standards for pensioners, although there is no doubt that reductions and other government measures can further increase living standards. I also draw attention to the fact that we have raised everyone's pension every year, and we have raised every pensioner's pension to an extent that goes beyond and after pensioner inflation. I understand that when you were Deputy State Secretary of the MSZP-SZDSZ government, you saw that during the MSZP-SZDSZ period pensions were reduced, a monthly pension was taken from all Hungarian pensioners, and now, fortunately, after 2010, you managed to do the reverse of this. But why has the LMP fraction, if the elderly are demanding a minimum in relation to pensioners, failed to vote for women 40 in previous years, for example? Wouldn't the retirement minimum be that the LMP doesn't say no? After all, not only were they absent from the vote or abstained, they specifically said no to 200,000 women in Hungary to the 40 benefits of Women and to receive such a grandmother's pension. Or why didn't LMP vote in June 2013 for the changes to wastewater that are very important for pensioners? Wouldn't the minimum pensioner be to vote for a reduction in the rent? When the Gas Act was amended, the LMPs, who were independent at the time, also voted against the reduction of the rent. Wouldn't the minimum retirement be to do that? And I could also list the measures to reduce the costs and other measures that LMP has not voted for. Perhaps in recent years, the minimum pensioner in Parliament should have been guaranteed by the LMP during the votes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-24-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Imre Horváth, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. In addition to the banks and executives, even the Ministry of Justice is profiting from evictions? It's an address. Congressman Imre Horváth has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-10-24-83	Dear Secretary of State, The government propaganda speaks of bright economic successes, but the sad reality that is silenced is that more people face the horror of eviction every month. Moreover, people who are trapped in a debt trap are not only bullied by banks, but also by executives and, ultimately, even the Ministry of Justice, because it is not enough to collect the debt with interest or interest on late payment, but also to raise a potentially large amount of money as a cost of execution, in addition to a fee, commission, and reimbursement of certified ready-made services, they are also paying a so-called "cost reduction." [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] According to his reply to my written question, the executive staff and the Ministry of Justice share half and half of the cost balance. But why does this money always come after implementation to the executive staff and the ministry? They explain that this should be maintained and supervised by the implementation organisation system. However, this explanation is unacceptable and patients are not charged with the maintenance costs of the medical chamber and the Ministry of Human Resources. What kind of services, what kind of supervision are they talking about? ! It's impossible to do anything in executive agencies, it's good to have two or three hours of customer reception a week. The only thing about supervision is that executive chairs are known to be bought and sold among themselves, while they are subject to a number of enforcement prosecutions. Is that why you're collecting so much money from our fellow countrymen in a difficult situation anyway? Mr. Secretary, don't you think there's still work to be done here by the Ministry? Thank you and I look forward to your reply.
u2017-10-24-84	Welcome, fellow Members. Thank you for the question and I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary.
u2017-10-24-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First, before 2010, the implementation costs were higher, so it was precisely this government that reduced the costs over the past period. I'd just like to say that in a prerogative. The second is that the increase in the number of debtors is also due to the successful foreign exchange lending operations of the then socioliberal governments prior to 2010, which we have been able to reduce and put in a better position by a lot of work for the debtors affected by the debts at that time. [[13.00]] In particular, you have named the cost secretary on your question, which you are asking for an explanation. Although I note that this question is genre, let us say, more limited than a written answer. But I'll say it again, which we included in the letter. So the 50-50 per cent-share of costs, which, by the way, means HUF 1000 below the execution value of HUF 500 000, not 1 per cent, is actually spent on the costs of the executive staff, this includes the authorisation procedure, the management of the executive lists, the replacement of virtually the outliers, the costs of disciplinary proceedings for checks, as well as the organisation of executive exams from the Ministry's side, and the organisation of further trainings. So all these are provided by the Ministry and the Minister through the Faculty and the Office. As regards the appointment of executives, you may have a lack of knowledge, or you do not have sufficient skills within the faction, but in all cases the executioners will be selected by tender in accordance with the professional requirements that have already been raised today. If you look carefully at the communications on this, you can see the conditions under which you can apply. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-24-86	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. How many people are exposed to frost death because of the government's recklessness? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-24-87	Thank you for the salt, Mr. President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. In the last few weeks, I've been constantly receiving requests that you can't get wood on the surrounding fireplace, or, if possible, at a horror price. On the last Friday of the week, I've made calls to every county seat, yet I've been able to navigate firsthand. There, ready-to-cut, the mace was placed around HUF 3700-4000, and the acacia was even more expensive, we can talk about HUF 4300-4500. And it is not only the high VAT on the record of Europe, but also the Ministry and the other ministries said last week about why they refuse to reduce VAT. I would like to draw attention to professional problems. One of the causes of the unprecedented shortage of wood is, for example, the reckless introduction of measures. After all, the lack of stock results in price increases, as my previous example has already shown. This could be a 40-50 percent increase compared to last year. Moreover, wood, which is often the only way to fire for the most vulnerable. But even if we don't take them, a middle-class family can have 10 to 20 cubic meters of wood in a winter firer, and it can be multiplied by what a burden it is for each family. And the Jobbik isn't the only one who claims that there are serious problems here. KSH also says that more and more people are unable to keep their apartments at a temperature in a winter that does not cause long-term health damage. The basic problem, Minister, is that dilettant politicians make unprofessional decisions for political orders and humiliate the entire forestry profession. The introduction of the EUTR was also unprepared. No one says that there is no need to compete with illegal imports, but this cannot result in people freezing in Hungary. There are also a lot of problems with private forests, a lot of wood left on the feet, also because of your actions. Mr. Secretary. When are they gonna do something about it? Now we're in the moment after the last, and I don't think you're gonna be able to blame that on plan Soros. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-24-88	Thank you. I give the floor to Minister Sándor Fazekas.
u2017-10-24-89	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to state that the Hungarian government, the state's social care system, will not leave anyone to their fate. We help everyone who gets into a difficult situation. And as for dilettious politicians, I was wondering if you were a dilettante or a demagog - but I see both at the same time. Because, Honourable Parliament, what I understand is that the Member is missing here, this decipherable seed of his comment, why we are not legalising the wall theft, why we are not cutting out all the forests, and why we are not allowing the wood-black trade and the black-wood imports, which you mention with such a nostalgic overtones, trying to smuggle into this question-option. Dear Parliament, The government aims to develop transparent, responsible forest management and related orderly relations in the firewood trade, including in the firewood market. So, like I said, we're not gonna leave people who are in a difficult situation. This is also the purpose of the social firewood programme and the social fuel and fuel programme. The European Union's obligation to introduce EUTR legislation, together with other traceability systems, has virtually eliminated black trade, which has been significant in this area. In fact, illegal imports of timber have been reduced, and exports to Hungary have been stopped and stopped by neighbouring countries. Obviously, there's a finite supply there, too. And in Hungary there is also a forest management plan, a forest extraction plan. This determines how many trees we can grow. Public forestry will do this, and private forestry will do it. So we're going to be able to produce the amount according to the plan. I trust this will ease the shortage of firewood. We are also planning further measures on the amount of firewood that can be placed on the market, but we must, of course, deliver all this within the framework of legality to the needy and to those who want to buy firewood. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-24-90	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of LMP, wishes to ask the Minister without a wallet for the design, construction and commissioning of the two new blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant:, Will the Paks spending be suspended until the decision of the European Court of Justice? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-10-24-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, On the last working day before the elections, the Austrian Government gave a clear signal that Austria had promised to appeal to the European Court of Justice for State support for the planned Paks enlargement. It is important to note that Austria always takes this step when it comes to building a nuclear power plant in Europe with public support before party policy is involved. He did it in the case of British Hinkley Point C, and he's gonna do it now, no matter who's on the wheel. One of the features of Austrian public life is the antinuclear adjustment of society, which is also adapted to politics there, regardless of party standing. In other words, it is hardly worth expecting the new EPP leadership to withdraw its predecessor's decision. At the same time, the British example is instructive to Hungary in many ways. Rumor of the European Court of Justice proceedings in Great Britain has immediately suspended any spending and preparation for Hinkley Point C until the court ruling has been reached. A responsible government with public funds can do nothing else, as the court may decide that the nuclear power plant cannot be built under the conditions in question. Therefore, please inform me whether the Hungarian Government is willing to temporarily stop spending in Paks, or if it is more important to you by financing the Fidesz Moonyard, by investing in the expansion of the party's paying place, and continue to pour public money into the pot at the bottom of which may be knocked out by a possible negative court decision. Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2017-10-24-92	I give the floor to Secretary of State Attila Aszodi.
u2017-10-24-93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I have to tell you, you're saying something that isn't true again. In the case of the construction of the British nuclear power plant, the Austrian action cited by you was submitted to the European Court of Justice in July 2015, the investor's Board of Directors EDF took the final ownership decision in July 2016 and the British Government contributed to the implementation of the investment in September 2016. Currently, HPC, the British nuclear power plant, has 2 thousand people working daily, and 600,000 hours a month are invested in construction. So far, 4 million cubic meters of land have been moved, two towers are already standing, the pier is being built, the cooling water system pipes are being installed. So there is a lot of work going on at the site, while the European Court of Justice has not yet made your decision. So what you're saying about the construction of the British nuclear power plant is simply not true. Let's look at the attitude of the Austrians. Recently, the Austrian head of state Alexander Van der Bellen said about their relationship with Hungary, and I quote: "It is not new that Hungary and Austria have different views on the use of nuclear energy. [[13.10]] However, this is understandable, as Austria has completely different, better conditions than Hungary in terms of hydropower. It covers almost 60 percent of Austria's electricity production from hydroelectric power plants, these conditions are simply not available in Hungary due to our natural circumstances. It is an EU principle that each country can choose its own energy policy. This is necessary, since different countries have different talents. We're working on the Paks II project to make electricity available to everyone cheaply. I see that this is not your goal, you are in favour of expensive electricity supply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-24-94	Thank you. Fellow Members! László Kiss, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: - How is the case of private hospitals in Romania, with the support of the Hungarian state? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-24-95	Mr President, Dear House, More than a year has passed since Minister of State Rétvári informed me that the Government of Hungary is committed to working constructively with the locals in the context of the establishment of health care institutions in the coastal and Szeklerland, and that even a hospital should be built here. As far as I know, there were indeed such consultations between local churches, civil society organisations and the Hungarian government. His reply also showed that all government engagements were premature until the professional ideas were finalised - I tried to quote them literally. In recent months, progress has been made by stakeholders in the preparation of concepts, but it is clear that operational expenditure and budgetary impact cannot be quantified before precise professional plans are outlined. This happened in February 2016. Indeed, in his reply, he confirmed that such discussions were still taking place and, as far as I know, these discussions have continued. I don't know where the case is, when the final concept is, whether the construction of a public or private hospital in Partium will begin in this cycle, who might be working on it, whether we know where the details of this case are going. Where, then, is the case of private hospitals in Transylvania or partion with the support of the Hungarian state, and it is assumed that if this is due to what resources should be used, how much will this cost to taxpayers? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply.
u2017-10-24-96	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-10-24-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You can't know from the text you've written and spoken about exactly what you're rooting for, because at the end you've asked us a question that reminds us of the socialist campaign of December 5, 2004 in which 23 million Romanians were alarmed - right, Ron Werber, he's now pushing the LMP's chariot - and it was written on your flyer that we shouldn't pay for our jobs because of cheap workers across the border. This was the opinion of the MSZP on Hungarians across the border at the time, and now they are much nicer to migrants in the migrant case, and they were not nicer to Hungarians across the border either. Indeed, there are a wide variety of developments throughout the Carpathian Basin. There is a kindergarten development programme from HUF 17 billion, out of which 68 new Hungarian kindergartens and cradles are built across the border, 215 kindergartens are developed, 11 Hungarian higher education institutions have launched 15 initial and two master's programmes for 1200 students across the border, and the number of higher education institutions across the border is 20; 300 basic, undivided, master and doctoral courses are offered to 16 thousand students in Hungarian. If you look at it, then in education and culture, Hungarians across the border already have many relationships with the mother country, the mother country helps them. Double citizenship also connects us publicly, and from this portfolio it is indeed health care, which is one of the most complicated and where the most difficult is to advance negotiations. Obviously, the meetings of MÁÉR in November this year may be able to give another impetus, as Hungary is committed to providing better quality services in Hungarian, even in the form of a private institution, in Hungarian-speaking regions across borders. However, the exact details of this cannot be explained at the moment, as the negotiations cover where basic Hungarian-language care is most needed, where professional provision in Hungarian is needed, and where a Hungarian-language hospital and a Hungarian-Hungarian hospital are needed in Transylvania and Partium. We will see if we can move forward after MÁÉRT in these very, very wide-ranging discussions involving many actors. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-24-98	Ladies and gentlemen, István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy a question:. Hungarian oil company? Hungarian chain of business? Hungarian bank? It's called the 2nd. By answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed Mr Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, will answer the question. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-24-99	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Almost five years ago, I asked Prime Minister about the fact that a number of Hungarian state-owned companies, such as CBA, MOL or OTP, often refused to deal with the fact that they had Hungarian language subtitles and advertising newspapers in their branches, shops or filling stations in the neighbouring countries, but at least in their Hungarian-inhabited areas. The Prime Minister replied then that the Hungarian State could not give instructions to these companies regarding the use of language, while, moreover, he did not dispute my claim that the names would benefit from the local Hungarian community's identification of them as Hungarian companies. So they travel for their money, but they don't respect their identity and their acquired rights. Although some progress has been made, for example, with regard to MOL's charging stations in Transylvania, there are still daunting stories about the attitude of these companies to the use of Hungarian language. For example, OTP, operating in the Highlands, played with hundreds of thousands of Hungarian actors in shock, or with its posters in the Slovak language only published in Révkomárom. Last time, a Hungarian policeman was called to the lady in the midst of harsh scoldings in their Somorja account just because he asked for a Hungarian-language administration, otherwise it was in connection with the inclusion of educational-education grants transferred by Bethlen Gábor Fund. In five years, therefore, the language policy attitude of these companies has not been changed much, nor has it been possible for a bank that manages state subsidies or loans for foreign Hungarians in the order of a hundred billion dollars, thereby generating significant revenues. During a V.I.P. box snooping in the Upstairs, this could be the case between Viktor Orbán and Sándor Csányi. On the basis of the above, I ask the Secretary of State why the government does not continue to address the fact that companies operating abroad, which are partly or entirely Hungarian-owned, pay particular attention to the recruitment of employees and the use of Hungarian subtitles, and what is the government's position regarding the outrageous and insolence of the OTP somorjai account. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-24-100	Thank you. Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary.
u2017-10-24-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, It is no coincidence that, as you mentioned, your question was raised five years ago. In five years, you have changed your behaviour in many respects in national matters. [[István Szávay intervenes.]] [[István Szávay intervenes.]] They did not vote for the amendment of the basic law against quota, and sometimes some of their representatives speak harshly, in an unacceptable voice, about Hungarians across the border. To give just one example, their President of Szolnok said that the majority of Transylvanian Hungarians, like North American Indians, could be bought with a handful of glass beads. This handful of glass beads was dual citizenship. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Honourable Congressman, By the way, the status of the government in relation to non-exclusive state-owned companies has not changed. In the case of non-State-owned companies, the Hungarian State may not give instructions to influence the internal operation of companies in the exercise of public authority. In the case of non-majority state-owned companies, the Hungarian State, as owner, cannot place a meaningful influence on the purpose that we consider important to promote the use of the Hungarian language. Otherwise, this can only be achieved with the positive attitude of these companies. I propose to you, Mr President, that you try to ask for the assistance of your owner, who has a significant role in economic life, so that these large economic companies can change the behaviour which we do not approve of, which you have objected to in your question. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.20]]
u2017-10-24-102	Ladies and gentlemen, Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question: It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-24-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, On 8 October, a local referendum took place in Berettyóújfalu, where locals could vote on whether they wanted a prison hospital built in their city in the neighbourhood of the city hospital. The referendum was invalid, which is no wonder, as Fidesz practically didn't campaign, they played that it wouldn't be valid, but almost two thirds of the opinioners rejected the prison hospital, and since the quota referendum, we know from Lajos Kósa that those who didn't go to vote entrusted the decision to those who contributed to the urns. Unfortunately, the Fidesz leadership of the city didn't think so. Mayor István Muraközi did not speak to Dr. Zsolt Zákány, one of the chief doctors of the local hospital, and did the same to me. He justified his arrogant, anti-democratic action by not being able to speak in Parliament. After that, the Fidesz majority of the Berettyóújfalu representative body, ignoring the opinion of 3,000 people, confirmed its intention to give the targeted area to the state for the construction of a prison hospital. The story isn't over here. They started a political witch hunt, the victim of which was Zsolt Zákány, who, as chief obstetrician and gynecologist, enjoys his appreciation in the settlement. His only crime was that he disagreed with the Fidesz lords and expressed his professional opinion. For the small-scale smear campaign, the crown was posted by Dr. Zoltán Muraköli - the brother of the mayor, the head of the hospital - Zsolt Zákány was replaced by the chief medical officer. Dear Secretary of State, Do you think it's right to ignore the will of the local people and force such an institution into a small town? Furthermore, what do you think of the fact that a fine doctor who is respected by thousands of patients in the city is a victim of a fidesz political smackdown? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-24-104	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra.
u2017-10-24-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The people of Berettyó Newfalu decided in the referendum, and they decided not to prevent the construction of the prison hospital in Berettyó Newfalu, despite your intrigues and your campaign. This investment is in the interests of the new people of Berettyójfalu. I ask you, honourable Member, if you really are a Democrat, then you must respect the will of the majority of people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2017-10-24-106	Ladies and gentlemen, We're at the end of the question. The question of nationality will now be addressed. Alexov Lyubomir wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question of the Serbian nationality:. Can it be expected that the budget funding of the public education institutions maintained by the national authorities will be adapted to the specific features of nationality and to the implementation of compulsory wage increases? It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Speaker.
u2017-10-24-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The Serbian minority community in Hungary appreciates the results that have been achieved in ethnic education in the past years in terms of financing and improving institutional conditions. At the same time, it is problematic that, when applying for normative support from the Hungarian State Treasury and clearing the public education institution, national self-governments are faced with the fact that the legislation laying down the conditions for budgetary support often does not take into account the particular situation of public education institutions maintained by nationalities in Hungary and the specific features of their operation. Among those assisting directly in educational work, it is difficult for professionals who speak the language of nationality to be available only exceptionally in the application of the regionally competent pedagogical services, but also in the application of them in the schools of nationality as referred to in Article 326/2013. cannot be financed under Annex 4 to the Government Decree. The biggest problem is the wages of other jobs in the institutions, which have been funded only under the public education contract, which increase each year by increasing the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage following the government's decisions, while the amount of additional support provided under the public education contract is constant and does not follow the mandatory wage increase. This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal of the European Union. According to a government decision, there is a source of compulsory wage increases for local authorities and no such framework is available for national authorities. Dear Secretary of State, On this basis, I ask: do you plan to adapt the budget funding of public education institutions maintained by national authorities to the specific features of nationality and to the implementation of compulsory wage increases? Waiting for your reply, thank you for your attention.
u2017-10-24-108	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-10-24-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Speaker, Dear House, In 2010, we decided to try to strengthen relations with the nationalities living in Hungary, precisely so that all nationalities living in Hungary could better fulfill their own identity, their own language, and obviously, the important part of which is also to strengthen their school system. If we look at the subsidies granted to nationalities in the fiscal law, we see that this amount has tripled; in 2010 it was HUF 3 billion, in the next year's budget - which we have already accepted - it has increased from more than 10 billion, i.e. from 3 billion to more than HUF 10 billion. Similarly, in schools, recognised average wages under next year's budget law have increased from 1.8 million to 2 million to 167 thousand, from 2 million to 200 thousand in schools and colleges to around 2 million to 600 thousand in kindergartens and from 2 million to 2 million to 800 thousand in kindergartens. National authorities may use special support for the operation of the public education institutions they maintain, and may apply for the average wage support under more favourable conditions than the average, not for 12 students, but also for 8 students and a special amount of operating aid, which will increase from 160 thousand HUF/person/year to 200 thousand HUF/person/year next year. In addition to the above, several national governments, including the Serbian National Municipality, receive additional funding under public education contracts, the Serbian National Municipality receives HUF 340 thousand/person/year, additional funding of HUF 20 878 125 per year, and the portfolio also provides additional support for the purchase of minority textbooks. The treaty on this is being prepared. Each year since 2011, ethnic scholarships have also been issued for the identity of indigenous nationalities living in our country. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In order to preserve it, or the textbooks will be awarded free of charge not only to the ninth but to the twelfth grade in the framework of special support to the schools of nationality. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-24-110	Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the questions. Now for the immediate questions. First of all, Sándor Burány, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What's going on? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Sándor Fazekas Minister for Agriculture to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts his identity or asks the Prime Minister for an answer.
u2017-10-24-111	I don't accept a replacement.
u2017-10-24-112	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Gergely Bárándy, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:, Relatives, buddies and others 5? It's an address. The President appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept his identity.
u2017-10-24-113	No! [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-10-24-114	He indicated that he had not, so that the President would have to answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Ladies and gentlemen, László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question. It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Nándor Csepreghy as State Secretary for his reply in response to an urgent public mission. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept his identity.
u2017-10-24-115	Yes, thank you.
u2017-10-24-116	It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman. [[13.30]]
u2017-10-24-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, According to the law on the order of public finances, the Hungarian State, the municipalities and anyone who manages public funds must not conclude any kind of contract with a company that is not clear either its ownership background or its activities are unclear, and there are the appropriate bodies to do so, which are able to determine whether there are factors in terms of ownership or operation that are not possible to conclude a contract with them. This is in the law on the order of public finances until you accept the amendment that you are now hiding in a salad law, that there will be exceptions to this, and that is to say institutions such as embassies, consulates that do not serve in Hungary and do not perform their duties in Hungary. They would be given a general exemption, and this would open the way - we discussed this in the Economic Committee - to enter into contracts with companies that do not know who they are or do not know what their activities are, whether they are dealing with money laundering or whether they are dealing with terrorist financing. When we tabled an amendment to keep it the way it is now, your Secretary of State, Mr Bocskai, from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said that they tried to comply with the law on public finances and tried to do so, he said, but they failed, so instead of working more diligently, they want to amend the law. My question to the Secretary of State is, in fact, because you also maintain a body of foreign representation, the Permanent Representation in Brussels, whether you will be able to comply with this law, or if you think it should be softened up and concluded with the offshores. Thank you.
u2017-10-24-118	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy.
u2017-10-24-119	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, I am trying to take your question seriously, despite the fact that the MSZP's huge zeal for offshore companies and the great zeal to fight against them until 2010, I see that it was not on the party's agenda, as we can look at the offshore transactions of the appointed head of the Central Bank, supported by you, or even the business affairs of former Members of Parliament sitting in the benches of the MSZP, now a businessman. [[Attila Mesterházy: Fidesz, who sit there...]] In each case, it is required that all representatives of the Hungarian state comply with the laws in force. Attila Mesterházy: About Kerényi! Speak of Kerényi, Mr. Secretary of State. The Fundamental Law, which entered into force in 2012, clearly regulates that only companies with transparent backgrounds can enter into any kind of contract, and as long as this rule covers its scope, in terms of time, all Hungarian state actors must accept it. I do not want to advance the new rule that the Parliament will adopt, but it may indeed be justified, in addition to the appropriate economic and legal guarantees, that foreign representations, which have to choose supplier partners in each country, can do so in line with the local system. However, this does not mean that they do not have to comply with their clearing obligations and different protection obligations, since it is a number of state control bodies that control their work, management and regularity. So as long as socialist governments have not only turned a blind eye in countless cases, but have supported agreements and bail-outs with offshore companies about Hungary - we also see this in the case of Metro 4, which is perhaps the most serious corruption case in Hungary's modern history - the Fidesz government ended this in 2012. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-24-120	Thank you. I give the floor to the congressman for a rejoinder.
u2017-10-24-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I take your answer seriously without any particular indication, with the fact that if it is about offshore, then I think you should talk to Kerényi's fellow Member about it in the Fidesz faction; perhaps with the Vice-President of the Economic Commission, Vice-President Mengyi, to discuss corruption a little more, I think that would be a good thing. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Or the relatives!]] You'll learn much more from them, believe me, if they're honest with you. [[Interventions in the ranks of MSZP: Flórian Farkas! Sándor Wolf!]] You're asking for a transparency statement from everyone, even if it's a settlement with a hundred houses, it's a small municipality. Yet now you're acquitted of an institution like the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, with thousands of employees, the Information Office behind you, which should be able to find out which company is behind it? You're gonna tell me these panels that you usually get put together for a press conference, and you can't answer that? Will you succeed, or will you not be able to comply with the offshore law at the Permanent Representation in Brussels? Thank you. [[Attila Mesterházy: That's right! Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-10-24-122	It's for the Secretary of State.
u2017-10-24-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to fully inform you that since the Prime Minister's Office has led the Permanent Representation in Brussels, we have complied with and will continue to comply with all existing laws under Hungarian and European Union law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-24-124	Thank you. János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What country are you building?" It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Sándor Fazekas Minister for Agriculture to respond to an urgent public task. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept your identity.
u2017-10-24-125	I'll wait for the Prime Minister, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-24-126	Thank you. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the second immediate question. Ladies and gentlemen, Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: Pinocchio is blushing. It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept her identity. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-10-24-127	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Based on information from the Klebelsberg Center, teachers are required to replace 1300 teaching classes per week. All of this means that there are about 30,000 teaching classes that can't be held by a particular teacher, and that's extremely serious and big. Despite all this, the government either lies or tries to bagate the problem, they talk about the fact that there is only a lack of teachers at local level in Hungary, although, of course, at local level, only at local level, there is virtually no county - including the capital - where there is no shortage of teachers. There are places where teachers are sought for seven subjects, honourable Secretary of State, and unlike your earlier promises, the school district system cannot solve this problem. This is no surprise, since in the last seven years you have implemented the changes in education policy by protesting it all along. A number of such cases have also occurred in the case of the teacher's career model, for example, the lack of financial appreciation also characterizes the career model, since in January 2018 the situation will be that the gross wages of a beginner teacher who graduated from college will be only HUF 2200 higher than the guaranteed minimum wage in Hungary. If you value educators that much, if you consider their work to be of value, then the shortage of teachers will not be solved, Mr. Secretary of State. What they did in September this year was to allow teachers to gain greater recognition at each other's expense, and it was quite impertinent, Mr. Secretary, everyone protested against it, all the professional organizations, yet you said that you made it look like it was their request. Mr. Secretary, do you realize there's a problem with public education? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-24-128	Mr. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-10-24-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, When I read the title of his speech, "Pinocchio blushes," I imagined in front of me Lajos Simicska Geppetto whisking his little Pinocchios from the Jobbik fraction [[Intercoms in the lines of Jobbik and MSZP.]] And I could imagine that if we thought about the last five years, the members of the Jobbik faction would need a special auxiliary force to open the door, because their noses would have grown so long, because they have said so much and so much to the contrary over the last five years, thanks to their good Geppetto, who makes them the faction they want, and therefore Jobbik will not resist anything. But if you have already raised the question of education, Madam honourable Member, you know that 177 thousand teachers are working in Hungary today, more than 150,000 people are working in the public education institutions you referred to, and you say that 1300 status is lacking, which is less than 1 percent of the total number of teachers, so you say that the lack of teachers up to 1 percent already endangers the functioning of the whole system. Of course, it is important to replace these teachers, which is why the government has launched programmes. This is why we launched the Klebelsberg Training Scholarship, which is very successful, since 1500 people have already participated in it, and it is precisely in deficit areas and in the short and medium term that it helps young people with such qualifications to become educators in the public education system. [[13.40]] That's why we started the teaching career to increase the pay of teachers by 50 percent, and this also increased the number of teachers and teachers to 30-40 percent. And the fact, honourable Member, that you have often said that you support the demands of trade unions, who have said that those who do better work will be given greater recognition, who do not do such good work will be given average recognition, and that the government has discussed this with the participants in public education at the public education round table, which is why you said that you would give school directors the opportunity to reward and raise their salaries to a greater extent on the basis of a pre-established criteria. That's why the pay increase was differentiated. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-24-130	It's for the congresswoman.
u2017-10-24-131	Dear Secretary of State, You have been ruling for seven years and talking about short-term solutions. Don't do it! You've been on the government for seven years, you don't have solutions in the short term, even the creation of the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre, state reservation has increased the problems. This transformation of the textbook market has increased the problems. Differentiation is necessary, Mr. Secretary, because you lied. In 2013 it was said that in September 2017 all teachers will have their wages increased. Now this doesn't have the coverage, so it's differential, and at the expense of each other, teachers can get a wage increase. That's not what the unions asked for. That's not what the Faculty of Pedagogism asked for. You are fully aware that you are lying, Mr. Secretary. That wasn't it. It was said that everyone would get a raise, and in addition they asked for differentiation of professional organizations. Don't make it look like it's their request, because it's not true. They're also in series of lies with the career model. They lied when they started, because they could only guarantee 60% of the wage increase they promised at that time, Mr. Secretary of State. These problems are the ones that basically have made things worse in the education system over the last seven years. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-10-24-132	Mr. Secretary of State is entitled to the rejoinder.
u2017-10-24-133	Thank you very much. We can certainly announce a partial result, because the one-minute, one-minute, lied expression contest, I think you won it today in Dóra Dúró's hour of immediate questioning. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and There was a time when the number of teachers in Hungary decreased. This socialist government, when 15,000 teachers have been dismissed and there are periods when the number of teachers is increasing, is Fidesz-KDNP governance. There are thousands more teachers working today than there were working in 2010 to better address young people. [[There are constant interruptions from the benches of the MSZP.]] Specialized facilities in Hungary are improving as a result of state reservations, and, as the waiting lists were not known in the period before 2010, exactly how many people are waiting in health care, it was also not possible to know exactly how many teachers the 3200 maintenance staff would need to be able to solve every hour in every school without substitution. Only public reservation could make this problem visible and manageable at all, and it is the Klebelsberg Scholarship, salary increases and similar government programmes that can provide real help. In the long term, there is no alternative to Jobbik [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] he didn't have any suggestions, he's not on this issue. [[Dóra Dúró: It's not true!]] but he's got KGB, he's got [[The president's ringing again.]] the reverse opinion of the European Union and many other things that lied to the eyes of their own voters. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-24-134	Mr. Secretary. If we're going beyond the frame, then at least let's stick to the subject. Thank you very much. [[Defiance. Dr. Bence Rétvári: I was talking about Pinocchio, that was the subject! It's a rare round of applause from the LMP benches. Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP, including: Excellent seat management! Let's rule it out.]] Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Ákos Hadházy, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Why does the government resign from part of the people? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Sándor Fazekas for an urgent public mission. I ask you if you accept the identity of Mr. Sándor Fazekas.
u2017-10-24-135	Thank you very much, I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2017-10-24-136	Thank you. Bernadett Szél, Ákos Hadházy and Erzsébet Schmuck, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title "Government and Reality." The Prime Minister has appointed Sándor Fazekas to respond to an urgent public task. I'm asking if you'll accept his identity.
u2017-10-24-137	Thank you very much. We'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2017-10-24-138	Thank you. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the second immediate question. István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Is there any what? It's an address. The Prime Minister has also appointed Minister Sándor Fazekas to respond to the urgent public task. I'm asking if you'll accept his identity.
u2017-10-24-139	Yeah.
u2017-10-24-140	It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-24-141	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Minister, I have to show you a situation which, I suppose, is not entirely foreign, since your ministry is also linked to educational institutions. Imagine an educational institution that has been a nationality reserve since September 2014. In connection with this institution, a number of requests were received from different former workers and students that the institution is a phantom institution, does not work, signs and then no training takes place there. Several data requests, to be exact, six now, have been submitted to the maintainer or the institution, and I have not received an answer. After that, I personally visited the institution on several occasions, at its sites also registered on the Internet by the Education Office. One of these is XI. district, an X. district penitentiary and two other rural penitentiaries where he carries out educational activities and has a centre. I did not find any indication that there was any educational activity here, that there was no student or educator here; so much that the last time I was at the training site, the sign was taken off. That's where I was further controlled by the III. At their headquarters in Miklós Square, district, some say that's where education has moved. There was no one there either. I got a routine response at the scene that they went to a practice at Göd, the school there. I asked the school in Göd, they're not in any contract. And when I tried to ask how many students went out to Göd that day, they refused to answer or to drop the question of maybe 20 students. It's a very serious normative institution that doesn't work; you may see your farming in order, it may be legal, but there's actually no education going on there. Apparently, everything supports that. I have already spoken about this here, within the walls of Parliament, and I am now asking the Minister's reply to what should be done in this case, Minister, if we are to experience these. Please answer: as a member of the government, what would you do in this case?
u2017-10-24-142	Minister Sándor Fazekas shall have the floor.
u2017-10-24-143	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First, as a Member, I will tell you what I would do in this matter, and then I will tell you what I would do as a member of the government. You have now drawn attention to an institution, without a specific institution name, budgetary data identification, location designation, as an example. So it is okay for you to state specifically what you want, and then you will get a concrete answer to that, because it is obvious that only a specific question can be answered. But I'm sure if you didn't succeed in finding the institution, the government will succeed. So maybe I'll look forward to your specifics. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-24-144	The congressman has the floor.
u2017-10-24-145	This institution has several names, very often changes: European Polytechnics, European Roma Secondary School, European Roma Nationalities Secondary School, Primary School, Secondary School and Vocational School. I read it because I didn't forget anything in the list because they're all on the Board of Education website. There are many kinds of institutions, there may be minor or larger errors. In this institution, you can't find things that are okay. Even his director is appointed a lawyer, an active member of the Chamber, which is clearly incompatible with the law of attorney 6. § (1). There's nothing wrong with this institution, there's no students, there's no teachers. Everyone who came from there complains about it, they don't get paid, they build up debts. On one occasion, I received an answer, exactly two times, that I should leave, and they would show me the data. Obviously, in this situation, I would not have liked it, because in any situation like this, they come up with answers that are compromising, misleading, and I asked for the data request in writing, and I did not get an answer. Obviously, filing charges is the only way, but on the government, please do something to stop all this $10 million, $100 million waste from going on.
u2017-10-24-146	It's up to the Minister.
u2017-10-24-147	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, However, I see that you are not far from getting more information, although the right to access the data is also a right that you can use, if necessary, an expert. But I am convinced, as with all public data requests, in this case, the government will meet your legitimate need for data. [[13.50]] Personally, as well as the Ministry of Agriculture, we meet a number of such requests every day. So I'd like to personally monitor this case so that you can get the right information, and if there's any suspected abuse, we can eliminate it. So I suggest that you take advantage of the opportunities that Members can make available information. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-24-148	Thank you. Imre Vas, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. How can the Hungarian police help to stop illegal migration at international level? It's an address. Minister Károly Kontra has appointed Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-24-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It has been a long time since the first wave of migration hit the southern border of Hungary, i.e. the external border area of the Schengen area. Not only the people who live there, but the whole country has experienced the serious danger that the crowds of people invading us without control and control are putting us at risk. Our land was wiped out, you might say, on the way, they left dirt, dirt, and a dangerous environment wherever they went. This was no different in our cities, as we should remember the riots in Debrecen or the tent camp that terrorized people before the Keleti Railway Station or their migration from Budapest to the Austrian border. I strongly believe that a country cannot afford this, so our country has rightly started to defend the borders of Europe and Hungary, i.e. the construction of the southern border barrier. We need to stand up for our interests, and we need to decide who we want to live with and who we don't. The most decisive action must be taken against illegal migration, even if there is a strong opponent, György Soros himself and the Soros plan on the other side. Today we can safely say that the government has protected Hungarian people and is doing everything in its power to protect the peoples of Europe. The border closure is successful and effective, as modern techniques have helped to curb the migratory pressure on the southern border section. Dear Secretary of State, However, the question arises as to whether we can pass on our experiences to other countries if we can achieve such successes at home. Can we help effectively curb the mass of people flowed here by illegal migration at international level? Thank you for listening. [[György Szilágyi: Máté Kocsis responds! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-24-150	I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra.
u2017-10-24-151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to ask Mr Szilágyi to call on him to comply with Parliament's rules. Thank you very much. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] Dear Parliament, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to thank you for making it possible, with your question, to thank the Hungarian police and Hungarian soldiers again here in front of Parliament for protecting the country. Today, there are two types of countries in Europe: where life is safe and where it is not safe. Hungary is one of the safest countries in the European Union and Europe today, thanks to the effective action of the police. It should also be pointed out that this good result has been achieved by protecting the southern border, protecting the security of Hungary, the Hungarian people and the European Union, and improving public security and internal security. Allow me to say two or three numbers in this respect: on the one hand, the number of high-profile crimes has decreased by more than 50 percent and on the other hand, the number of crimes in the public domain has decreased significantly by 50 percent and the effectiveness of the investigation has improved by 13 percent. These are all results which show that the efforts and efforts made by the government and Parliament to strengthen public security and public order are effective. The government is committed to border protection, strengthening the police and increasing public security, but not only the southern border is protected by Hungarian police and Hungarian soldiers, but we also provide assistance to Serbia and Macedonia. In Serbia, 15 Hungarian policemen are currently serving in Macedonia in order to ensure that border protection is also effective. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-24-152	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman for rejoinder.
u2017-10-24-153	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I also consider it important that, beyond the Schengen area, Hungarian police help with border protection, as those who do not pass through Macedonia will most likely not reach the border of the Schengen area, the Hungarian-Serbian border. So I ask the Government, through the Secretary of State, to help the surrounding countries as much as possible. Refugees need to be helped where they are, there is no need to bring the problem here, so that we can protect both Hungary and the other countries of the European Union. Thank you very much for your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-24-154	Thank you. It's for the Secretary of State.
u2017-10-24-155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In order to protect the border, the Schengen border, we also receive assistance from the countries of the V4. In recent years, we have received assistance from Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, and we are also constantly helping Serbia, Macedonia and Bulgaria. We believe that this international cooperation is in the interests of both sending and receiving countries, and our common goal is to protect Europe's borders. This requires that all countries comply with the Schengen rules, everyone defends the Schengen borders, and if we can protect the Schengen borders, then the internal borders will be reopened, as this is one of the most important achievements of the European Union. I can assure you, Member, that in the 2018 budget, the resources needed for the effective and successful operation of the police have been provided both in terms of increasing the salary of staff and in terms of technical and other costs. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-24-156	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Are our soldiers in danger in Iraq? It's an address. Prime Minister Sándor Fazekas appointed Minister for Agriculture to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2017-10-24-157	I didn't hear you. I'm sorry. The Minister of Agriculture will...
u2017-10-24-158	Mr Sándor Fazekas appointed Minister of Agriculture.
u2017-10-24-159	About our Iraqi soldiers...
u2017-10-24-160	That's right, that's right. Do you accept his identity?
u2017-10-24-161	Let's see what we can do. The subject is important, I'm afraid I have to ask. Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I am shocked to note that the Prime Minister does not care so much about the fate and life of our Hungarian soldiers that he appoints the Minister of Agriculture to the person of the responder. Obviously, it also designates the authority of the Hungarian Parliament. On the other hand, I also find it shameful for the Minister of Defence not to come to Parliament to answer this important question. At the request of the Hungarian Government, the Hungarian Parliament sent our soldiers to Iraq by a majority of more than two thirds, at the request of the central government of Iraq, to train the Pesmerga army of Kurdistan in northern Iraq in order to fight against the Islamic State. Since then, the city of Mosul has been occupied by these forces, and perhaps you know the latest news: these two parties, one party from whom we have asked for the request, the other party whose soldiers we train, have turned on each other in the past period. In Kurdistan, northern Iraq, a referendum was held on the independence of the province, and 98 percent of the votes won. After that, it didn't take long to react: last week the issue turned into an armed conflict. It is a very big question from now on, Honourable Parliament, what will happen to Hungarian soldiers who may be caught in the middle of two fires. The soldiers to whom we are there and who we train are shooting each other, and it would be good to know whether the Hungarian government is prepared for this situation. Do you see a risk, either in the near future or in the further future, that Hungarian soldiers will face an unsolvable situation in this regard? Does the government plan to withdraw Hungarian troops from the region in this case? Is there any preparation at all, do they have any response to the situation if the Hungarian soldiers are caught in the fire in the country to which we have gone to offer assistance at the request of the central government in Iraq? I'm waiting for your answer, Minister. [[14.00]]
u2017-10-24-162	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister.
u2017-10-24-163	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Dear noisy MSZP fraction! That's an important question. Of course, if we look only at the question described and told whether our soldiers are in danger in Iraq, then the seriousness of the questioner can be questioned, because the military is not a danger-free area, honourable Parliament. With all due respect to the soldiers protecting the country, I think this level of questioning is disrespectful to them. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] According to the government and personally, it is therefore very important for me that the Hungarian soldiers carry out as safely as possible the mission that is difficult and dangerous, since all missions are risky for our soldiers. At the same time, the purpose of the Iraqi mission is to reduce the crisis caused by illegal migration by coalition in some 60 countries, as well as the threat of terrorism in Europe and to strengthen the security of Hungarian people. So we're prepared for every situation, we'll take whatever measures we can. Thank you very much. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Nice answer! It's obvious you don't know how to do it. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-24-164	Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the seriousness of the situation, please remain calm on this issue. I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2017-10-24-165	Thank you, Mr. President. It will be difficult, difficult to maintain calm, and I only hope very much that the life of our Hungarian soldiers outside does not depend on the knowledge and competence of Minister of Agriculture Sándor Fazekas, because then they should run wherever they can. Minister, I've been outside, I know what's going on out there. Your answer is a disgrace. First of all, our soldiers were not sent there for armed combat, but for training, and second of all, it is clear that they have no idea what they are talking about. Once again, we have soldiers there to train the Pesmerga army at the request of the Iraqi government. Right now, the Iraqi soldiers are shooting the Pesmergas, and our soldiers in these camps are training these soldiers. I'd like to ask you: where will they shoot if this armed conflict can reach Erbíl? Why can't you give us a fair answer to the question of whether the government is thinking about what's going to happen there and whether they have an exit plan, whether our soldiers are being pulled out, or some other information from the Hungarian government about what the fate of some 200 soldiers will be in the coming weeks and months. Be kind and give me a fair answer to that question. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-24-166	Mr. Secretary, that's the word.
u2017-10-24-167	Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Mr President, I can see that the MSZP fraction is trying to throw me out of this question with a loud voice. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] I would like to say that I am fully aware of the obligations of a soldier, because I was a soldier, and the oath I took at the time, I still consider important and to this day. [[Dr. László Kács: That's not what we asked. Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] It's one of the things, unlike you guys who shout irresponsiblely. The other is that I would like to reassure everyone, including the soldiers on the Iraqi mission, that the government, the Ministry of Defence, is monitoring the situation there, taking care of them, and that we will take all necessary measures, if justified by the situation. Thank you. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You have no idea what you're talking about. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-24-168	Ladies and gentlemen, Please calm down, there will be another opportunity to discuss the issue in Parliament. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "When does the Government finally dare to face the victims?" It's an address. Prime Minister Sándor Fazekas has appointed Minister for Agriculture for the sake of an urgent public mission. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept his identity.
u2017-10-24-169	I'll take it.
u2017-10-24-170	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-24-171	Mr President, Dear House, Last week, another round of the currency-credited round table called by Jobbik took place, with the peculiarity of inviting the representatives of the government, the Banking Alliance and, of course, the civil organisations who have existing solutions, who can tell you and us how to solve this amazingly long-dissolved problem in real life. The fact is, once again, the government has not respected this event, yet again dared not face the victims. That is why the question arises at the moment, when we celebrated the heroes of.56 yesterday, Minister, if he considers it acceptable that this very week they want to evict a.56 hero and his family, including a small child living with them, in such a way that although the excesses and amazing abuses of the executive system are well-known, an example of which was a claim of HUF 33 million resulting from a debt of 5 million earlier, however, neither the government nor the supervisory authorities provide a substantive screen, since they were able to get carried away only by partial solutions. End-of-life payments were granted to those in luckier situations, to the National Asset Manager as a solution, where people are deprived of property ownership, but it can be seen that they have not been able to substantially reduce the number of more than 140,000 who are left behind so much that the horror of eviction is a daily threat, a daily threat, and on these people the debt to our account is typically unjustified. At the round table with foreign exchange credit, the professional background and reasons for this have been explained. The question is whether the government is willing to at least announce the eviction moratorium until the elections, if it has not come to know the problem and according to its own promises, I must say that it has not helped these people, because although it said that it leaves no one on the side of the road, it has not done anything for them. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-24-172	Minister Sándor Fazekas has the floor.
u2017-10-24-173	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I hope that we can turn the fate of the family in a difficult situation to the right in this particular case, the details of which I am obviously no longer familiar with, but I would like to say that the gravity of the subject justifies this, that the socialist government in Hungary abolished the former home creation system after 2002 and led the Hungarian families towards foreign exchange lending. As a result, the amount of retail foreign exchange loans increased more than a hundred times and put some one million Hungarian families in a difficult situation; and one of the consequences of the economic crisis in 2008 was that exchange rates had changed significantly, thus increasing the repayments and debt. So hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families are in a hopeless situation, many are at risk of eviction, and the Socialist Government has not given them any support. This was followed by a series of measures by the government of national affairs, which, I think, is known to all of us: an eviction moratorium has been announced, the exchange rate barrier has been introduced, and the end repayment has been made, we have created the international an asset manager, which provides a safe home for more than 100,000 people. We have also consulted on several occasions with foreign exchange-credit organisations, not just because of some political capital formation or election campaign promises, but by predominantly looking for practical solutions to this difficult situation. I am confident that the measures that have been taken so far will deliver the results. Today, much fewer people are struggling with this big problem, but it is clear that we still have a lot of work to do, and I hope that we will also be able to find a solution to these. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-24-174	Congressman has the right to a rejoinder.
u2017-10-24-175	Mr President, Dear House, I do not wish to put you in an awkward position, since the international asset manager is, in fact, a National Asset Manager, but I do not envy his unworthy position, because I wanted to ask the Prime Minister this question, but the Prime Minister has appointed you to answer it. So if the Prime Minister treats this issue with such seriousness as to delegate the answer to his Minister for Agriculture, then it is not certain that the Minister for Agriculture is responsible. At the same time, Minister, if you are truly interested in the fate of this family, I promise you that during today, I will send your contact details, even the link to the Facebook event, to your mailbox. I ask you to look into it and try to help this family within the legal framework in force, because it is absolutely symbolic that people around the anniversary of our revolution are being thrown out of their property, otherwise I claim, on the basis of unjustified debts, who simply do not have this type of debt. They shouldn't be victims of this banking system just because you didn't help. And the eviction moratorium will be announced until the election, so that a new government can finally settle this problem instead of you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[14.10]]
u2017-10-24-176	Mr. Secretary, that's the word.
u2017-10-24-177	Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Mr President, The National Asset Manager is just a possible solution. In addition, thanks to the decision of the government and Parliament, the credible have recovered the amounts that banks took unfairly through unilateral increases in interest rates and exchange rate cuts. We have also introduced a private institution for debtors in the most difficult situation. I think this is a national issue where we need to provide the most obvious solutions. We must provide available solutions to those who are in such a situation. This is important to all members of the government. There is no settlement, there is almost no family that is not affected by this problem. I am waiting for the data, and I personally promise you that I will intervene in this matter, and if there is a solution, we will find it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-24-178	Thank you. Dear Parliament, József Attila Móring, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question:. What are the cycling development priorities in the coming years? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr János Fónagy Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept your identity. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-24-179	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The KDNP fraction has asked the government several times about bicycle development. In the government's answers, the aim was to create a national biking road network up to 2020, and that this is not just an empty promise, but an example is the latest announcement that one of the most missing stages, the bike road from Budapest to Lake Balaton, will be completed by the summer of 2019. Of course, we cannot be satisfied, there is also a need for further bicycle routes and for the development and renovation of the existing network. The renovation of the Balaton Circle, which is closely linked to the Budapest-Balaton bike path, is also to be highlighted, which, in my opinion, creates a complex route that can be a priority route for many amateur cyclists. Of course, it is also important that the route should not only be for self-serving purposes, but also be able to enter the international cycling circulation, so the KDNP fraction is confident that this development will also take place as soon as possible. Dear Secretary of State, However, two things must not be forgotten. A bicycle ride is a good thing, but it is not enough in itself. Besides the road, it is important to build additional infrastructure such as bike rest, information point, or service point, as this has already worked in several places in Budapest, which allows families with children to take longer-term biking. In order to ensure future road development, it is important to measure cycling traffic and to know the preference of cyclists. That is why I am asking the honourable Secretary of State what the cycling development priorities are in the coming years. How much does the government intend to spend on developing a bicycle road network by 2020? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-24-180	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2017-10-24-181	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, in the coming years, we are making very significant improvements at bicycle roads, and by 2020 we want to significantly expand the Hungarian backbone network, together with the construction of the Hungarian sections of European bicycle routes. For example, I mention the EuroVelo road along the Danube and Dunakanyar. Besides the construction, it is also very important to operate the bicycle roads, which we want to put in the central hand of the Hungarian Road. The entire range of settlements involved in the construction of new bicycle roads planned for some 2,000 kilometres is not yet known, but according to the preliminary plans, hundreds of settlements will be directly affected. In the list of additional services and improvements mentioned by you, I would like to highlight those bike rests, bicycle rentals, service points, not least the use of mobile apps, and sometimes health aid places, which are part of cycling routes. It is part of the development that we have recently handed over the first hiking bike route between Pannonhalma and Balatonfüred, marked by the new design. In the autumn, the Fertőd-Keszthely route will also be selected, and in a few weeks plans will be made for the Balaton Bringakör, Budapest-Balaton, Rajka-Budapest and EuroVelo 6. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-24-182	I give the floor to the congressman for a rejoinder.
u2017-10-24-183	Thank you very much. The Christian Democratic People's Party considers the issue of cycling, which reduces the burden of environmentally sound, healthy and overcrowded roads in transport and development policy, which is a good and meaningful pastime in the lives of families. Of course, development and road construction cannot take place in the blind world, it is important that design and construction are part of a long-term concept, linked to both the Hungarian and the European cycling network, thus creating a backbone network that can significantly improve and expand the opportunities offered by recreational cycling. Mr Secretary of State's reply convinced me that significant improvements would continue to be expected in the near future, and I thanked him for his reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-24-184	Mr. Secretary of State is entitled to the rejoinder.
u2017-10-24-185	Thank you very much. Several sections of the improvements I mentioned earlier could be built in 2018 and further bicycle routes will be transferred in 2019. In the following years, the Budapest-Balaton bike path will be built in a total of 330 km, and the already mentioned Balaton Bingakör with another small-balaton connection. For my part, in the course of cycling development and related activities, I consider it important to highlight the training and education required for this purpose, as I consider the importance of basic knowledge for the safety of our children, for ourselves and for the safety of our children, as well as for road construction, to be important for education and training in the interests of safe cycling. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you for your patience. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-24-186	Ladies and gentlemen, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:, Is that all pensioners are worth to the government? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Péter Cseresnyés Secretary of State to carry out an urgent public task. I'm asking if you'll accept his identity. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-10-24-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, You have announced the pension correction and the pension premium, and that in December there will be a HUF 10 000 Erzsébet voucher, as if you would exercise great favor to pensioners. Obviously, the little money the pensioners need, but they deserve more than that. Let's see what's wrong. First of all, in January, you under-designed the pension increase. First they talked about 0.9 per cent, then in January they raised it to 1.6 per cent, not knowing why, because the Hungarian National Bank then predicted 2.4 per cent inflation, so you have used the money of pensioners for free in the last 10 months without interest. In addition, the problem is that the average amount of HUF 10 000 per pensioner is only HUF 5-6 thousand for small pensioners, which is very small, especially when looking at the pensioner's inflation basket. Let's look at the matter of retirement. As you know, this was introduced by the Bajnai government, but so far pensioners have never received a pension premium, even though they should have benefited from economic growth in recent years. [[14.20]] The question is why, over the last seven years, the government has not thought about changing the rules of Bajna, so that pensioners can receive a pension premium beyond a 3.5 percent increase in GDP. And here's the third, Elizabeth's voucher. Last year we indicated that this 10,000 forints should not be given in the form of vouchers, but in money. Now would be a chance to transfer it along with the pension correction and the pension premium. But we think it's not the common sense that counts. It's the good of their own. It has become known that the company that markets Elizabeth vouchers. You can expect more than 2 billion extra revenue thanks to the government's Christmas gift. Plus, you're spending a lot of money on mailing. We know they even sent vouchers to Australia last year. The question is, is it all right, Mr. Secretary?
u2017-10-24-188	Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary.
u2017-10-24-189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'll try to answer your emotionally heated question calmly in response to your comment. Of course, we need to make it clear, and the experience so far shows everyone that the government appreciates and respects Hungarian pensioners, so we are constantly working on making sure that the Hungarian pension system is safe, stable, predictable and that the value preservation of pensions is ensured. I would like to remind you of what has happened to this in recent years. I would like to mention, for example, that the purchasing value of pensions has been maintained continuously, and that you have described it in a slight way, that since 2010, the purchasing value of pensions has increased by almost 10 percent; I would like to stress that it is the value of the buyer and not its nominal value. The law guarantees that if annual inflation is higher than planned, we will ensure a pension correction, and that pensioners will receive the money going back to 1 January, which is the difference between planned and actual inflation. And the pensioners will receive a HUF 10 000 Elizabeth voucher this December as well. So, as the economy allows, the Hungarian government constantly ensures that at least the real value of the pension, the pension received by everyone, is preserved. But as I mentioned, in recent years, it has increased significantly by almost 10 percent in real terms. I would also like to say that, thanks to the government's economic policy, this is the first time that there is a possibility under the law to grant a pension premium. This means that pensioners with a benefit of HUF 80,000 or more receive a one-off payment of HUF 12,000, and those who receive a pension of less than HUF 80,000 receive this proportion, and this correction should be calculated on the basis of a formula laid down by law. I'll get back to you in the next minute. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-24-190	It's up to Congresswoman.
u2017-10-24-191	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I am very much arguing with you that the government appreciates pensioners. Now it is known that these steps will cost the budget about HUF 90 billion overall. At the same time, you spent 190 billion forints on the Puskás Stadium. Or they spent more than 100 billion forints this year on Paks II investment. But I could tell you more. Let's compare the two. You say that inflation monitoring has been achieved. It didn't happen because you were looking at average inflation and not the retirement inflation basket. Do you know what a retired inflation basket means? Do you know what it means to know how much the cost of the medicine, the cost of the rent, and the rest? ! A lot. You should simply look at the situation of pensioners and touch them comprehensively and increase the rate of pensioners' situation and pensions much higher.
u2017-10-24-192	Thank you. The Secretary of State has the opportunity to rejoinder.
u2017-10-24-193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It's hard to react to you because you're pulverizing phrases, you're saying sentences that don't contain any data, you're just saying something, you're yelling at the air, you're yelling at the ether, and you're demanding something that might not even have an economic basis. But I'd like to give you some information. There are about 2.2 million pensioners in Hungary today, and instead 2,7-2,8 million people who receive this pension premium who are not directly receiving old-age pension benefits, but who are receiving pension benefits. We are also trying to appreciate people who have spent several years or several decades in the labour market, just because they have already contributed to the development of the economy and to the advancement of society. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This also expresses the government's appreciation for pensioners. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-24-194	Ladies and gentlemen, László Pósán, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I'm asking if you'll accept his identity.
u2017-10-24-195	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2017-10-24-196	It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-24-197	Thank you very much. Since the governance of the Fidesz-KDNP, it has been in the best interests of children when defining public education goals, establishing conditions of operation, and, of course, we consider it the most important to have a competitive knowledge, and to this end, it is important that those who teach and educate children should be morally and financially appreciated. We can remember that this was not the case when the socialists were ruling. However, after 2010, there was a significant re-use of resources in the sector. Compared to 2010, we spend more than HUF 500 billion on education systems, schools, and since 2013, we have also significantly increased the salaries and wages of teachers. Regardless of this, or despite this, it is always said from the opposition parties' side that every year it is mantra-like that it has no cover to raise teachers' wages. Last time, just half an hour ago, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró said that. I believe that it is difficult to find out in the budget law, perhaps not everyone can, and that is why I am asking the Secretary of State whether it is really there to reassure opposition representatives, because they will not believe it, but for those who are curious about this and watching Parliamentary mediations. In any case, the Finance Act is reassuring in this respect. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-24-198	I give the floor to Secretary Bence Rétvári.
u2017-10-24-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Since 2013, since we increased the wages of teachers, every year in the Budget Act, there have been the surpluses that are used to cover the payment of the wage increase for all maintenance workers. Of course, this is no different in this year's and next year's budgets. In 2013 there was a surplus of HUF 32.5 billion compared to the 2012 budget, in 2014 there was a surplus of HUF 120 billion, in 2015 there was a surplus of HUF 38.5 billion compared to the previous year, in 2016 there was a surplus of HUF 34 billion, in this year's budget there was a surplus of HUF 44.8 billion for teachers' wages, and next year there was a surplus of HUF 41 billion for teachers' wages in the already adopted budget law. Of course, there are additional resources in the system of public education, since the overall amount of HUF 117 billion more will be spent on education than in this year, but a HUF 41 billion part of it is specifically and exclusively used to cover teachers' careers and wage increases, as teachers will receive the amount of the automatic wage increase paid from 1 September, and more than 40,000 teachers themselves have increased their wages and rating procedures, giving their portfolio, subjecting themselves to the qualification process and updating their own hours plans, updating their own knowledge, making their teaching more conscious, qualified themselves as a teacher grade 2, so that his salary also increases by 30-35 thousand forints. But the greatest beneficiaries of this are children, because this pedagogical career, this additional resource, helps them to receive better quality education, to be taught by teachers with the best skills, and to be trained and qualified as much as possible. More than 40,000 people have already done that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-24-200	I give the floor to Congressman for rejoinder.
u2017-10-24-201	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Obviously, that wasn't even a question to me. With all due respect, I would like to suggest that we create a new parliamentary interpreter dictionary for the future. If the opposition says something that it doesn't have its cover, then it means that it actually has its cover, because all the examples of recent years have shown that when it was claimed, reality has rebutted all of this, and it has proved that the provisions of the budget law always stand up. It is worth listening to the SAO, it is worth listening to the bodies that express their opinions on how well the budget and the figures in it are sound. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.30]]
u2017-10-24-202	Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2017-10-24-203	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The difference between earlier promises and current wage increases is that these wages are no longer due to loans, not to loans from the IMF, and pensions are also not covered by loans, but by loans, but by the Hungarian economy. Since 2013, this turn of events has been taking place, since then the Hungarian economy has had an increasing performance, and the various government measures that have reduced income tax or family taxes have reduced the income tax on persons, while at the same time making unpaid taxes due to electronic cash registers or others into taxes. So now we can guarantee these wage increases from real budgetary revenue, long-term and sustainable for everyone. Both health wage increases, education wage increases and wage increases for professional staff, wage increases introduced in district offices are all now on sound budgetary bases. The pension fund is now stable compared to 2010, there is no shortage and no need to patch it up. For this reason, next year's 3 percent pension increase will also be on a stable footing for the various stipends in November and December. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-24-204	Ladies and gentlemen, We've reached the end of today's rendezvous. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. For the first time, after the day's speech, Mr Varga Szimeon Boglár spoke for ethnicity: we remembered the day of Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship. You have the floor, Mr. Speaker.
u2017-10-24-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на българите в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to welcome you on behalf of the Bulgarians in Hungary and myself. The friendship of the Hungarian and Bulgarian people was celebrated for the second time in an official framework. The friendship day commemoration took place in Bulgaria, Sofia and the Rila Mountains between 18 and 21 October. The festive events strengthen the friendship and cooperation of the two peoples, commemorating our shared Christian faith and roots. In addition to the official commemoration of the two countries, on 19 October the Bulgarian community in Hungary, the Cyrillic and Methodic Elementary School in Zalavár, the students and teachers of the Bulgarian language schools in Fishermen and Budapest took a pilgrimage to the relics of St. John Rilai, the patron saint of Bulgaria, and attended the Holy Mass in Rila. On 20 October, in Saint Sofia Basilica, Sofia, the memorial plaque presented to Bulgaria by the Bulgarian community in Hungary was inaugurated and sanctified. The importance of the historical event is indicated by the fact that the same memorial plaque depicting St. John Rilai has been decorating the Basilica of Esztergom since last year. Perhaps there are no two Basilicas in the world in which the same two tablets proclaim the common roots, faith, and friendship of two peoples. At the inauguration and sanctification of the plaque, Bulgaria's Vice-President of the Republic represented himself, the Parliament of the two nations, the Mayor's Office, the Friendly Branches of the Interparlamental Union, the mayors of settlements with a twin city relationship from the Hungarian and Bulgarian side, and not least from my fellow Bulgarian nationalities in Hungary, students whose roots are linked to Bulgaria, and who consider it their main goal in the present and future to preserve their nationality, their mother tongue and continue to cultivate our traditions. In order to achieve this pilgrimage, I would like to thank the Ministry of Human Resources for its support for the State Secretary for Church, Nationality and Civil Society Relations and for the assistance of State Secretary Miklós Soltész. In the framework of the Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship day, the street of the Hungaricums was held for the first time in the city park in Sofia on 20-21 October. The festival presented and gave a taste of the collection of hungaricums, food, drinks, and the wonderful folk motives through which the friendship of the Bulgarian and Hungarian peoples can be made deeper. The Hungaricum Street Festival was an excellent opportunity to introduce Hungary to our Bulgarian friends and to draw attention to the values and opportunities of our country and to establish our further professional relations. I would like to thank Minister Sándor Fazekas and the State Secretary for Hungaricums of the Ministry of Agriculture for the festival of Hungaricums. And not least, I thank the Embassy of Hungary in Sofia, his Excellency Ambassador Harangozó Tekla and her colleagues for their help in celebrating the day of Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It was my pleasure to attend the high-quality events of the day of Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship and to be present at the inauguration of the plaque. Such friendship and cooperation are needed to preserve our faith and the future of our children in our countries. Thank you for your attention. Благодаря завашето внимание!
u2017-10-24-206	Thank you very much for Mr Varga Simeon's words. On behalf of the Government, Mr János Fónagy wishes to respond.
u2017-10-24-207	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Speaker, Bulgarian-Hungarian friendship is important for Hungary. The commemorative day initiated by you and adopted by the Hungarian Parliament and the Bulgarian National Assembly in 2016, on 19 October, the celebration of Saint John Rila, the patron saint of Bulgaria is an excellent opportunity to strengthen relations and deepen friendship each year. The good relations show that last week the Government of Bulgaria and Hungary represented themselves on a high level at the Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship day events in Hungary and Bulgaria. Mrs Ilijana Jotova, vice-president of the Republic of Bulgaria, was in Hungary and received by Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament and Zsolt Németh, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and Minister of State Miklós Soltész from the government. Sándor Fazekas Minister of Agriculture and State Secretary Miklós Soltész participated in the programmes in Bulgaria. As was the inauguration of the commemorative day in 2016 in the Basilica of Esztergom, just a few days ago, in the church of the Bulgarian capital, St. Sofia's church, a bilingual memorial plaque, which is also one of the most important monuments of the ancient Christian monuments of southeastern Europe. The importance of friendship for Bulgaria shows that Ilijana Jotova, Vice-President of the Republic of Bulgaria and Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov participated in the inauguration of the table. And, of course, I should also mention the participation of the speaker and the president of the Bulgarian National Municipality in Hungary. This shows the good cooperation between the Hungarian government and Bulgarian nationality in our country. The government gives all the help and support to Bulgarians living in our country to preserve their identity, language and culture. In 2001, 2316, in 2011, 6272 people declared themselves Bulgarian in our country. Support for Hungarian Bulgarian nationality was HUF 95 million in 2010, which already exceeded 151 million in 2017, which is 260 percent This means an increase. In addition to the national government, the Bulgarian ethnic government was founded in 22 districts in Budapest and 11 rural settlements. The Bulgarian National Municipality maintains two educational and cultural institutions, the Association of Bulgarians in Hungary, the Bulgarian Cultural House, Bulgarian dance ensembles, the Alternative National Theatre and the Orthodox Church in Hungary can count on the government's support in the future. Thanks to gardeners of Bulgarian nationality established in our country, Hungarian people also view Bulgarians as honest, hardworking Christian people. The two peoples understand each other well because they share common roots and similar historical experiences. Bulgaria and Hungary share the same views on the future of Europe, it is important for both peoples to preserve their national and Christian identities and to protect Europe's external borders, to guarantee the safety of people living in our countries. Hungary not only cooperates well with the countries of the Visegrád Four, but also with all the nations that are ready to give brave and realistic answers to the challenges of our time. Thank you, Mr Spokesman, members of the Bulgarian nationality in Hungary and all those involved in strengthening cooperation, for their persistent efforts to strengthen the friendship of the two peoples, which is of great value in Europe's current situation. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[14.40]]
u2017-10-24-208	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Speaking after the next agenda, Mr Zoltán Magyar has applied for the problem of an abandoned area. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-24-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I would like to confront the representatives of the governing parties with some promises, which at least affected or could have affected the Rábaköz and Sokoróalja constituency. Among other things, in the 2014 election campaign, jobs have been promised that are finally able to provide wages to workers who are working there that might relieve the pressure currently on workers and not necessarily choose commuting. Here I am happy to announce, with some irony, that this has been achieved in three jobs, since today there are hundreds of workers working in the solar cell factory, who are taking turns as security guards. I also ask questions about this week after week, because all I see about the solar panels factory is the slumbering. The government still hasn't been able to clarify itself about how much Eximbank left of its HUF 7 billion credit line to the plant that still doesn't work. I can also tell you sad news about the other city, Kapuvar, because there were also serious promises about the meat factory, the broken, ruined meat factory. On the one hand, commitments were made in relation to the compensation of former workers, and on the other hand, there were very serious commitments made here in connection with the compensation of suppliers. Compared to this, we can still see gross omissions in both areas. And this is sad not only because of the specific commitments made in this regard, but also because the meat factory itself could have been destroyed in support of the Fidesz administration. The fail-safe was able to ask my question, to ask my problem in a conversation, to say that the government doesn't want to save the meat factory because Kapuvár is close to Austria, and then at most people will go to work there. This is a very cynical and repugnant attitude, so I also expressly demand it, and on behalf of the people who live there, I demand that it finally be done to meet the legitimate needs of former workers. The area's road network is also an ongoing topic, not by accident. I have said several times that out of the three parameters to be examined, which best determines the quality of a trip, our region is the worst in two, and in the third case only the second worst in the region, so it can be said that during Rába there are the worst quality roads in the whole country. The situation of the TOP applications is not very encouraging either. I find the way these money has been distributed quite impolite. I understand that there are local governments, mayors that are closer to your heart, but the solution is not to decide one by one, to make political decisions about which development deserves the resources and which does not, but, let's say, could have taken an example from constituencies where the settlements, at least within the limits of rationality, received development resources for what they thought was most appropriate. I also have to mention the sugar factory, because there was a sugar factory in Petőháza in the region, and the farmers who had been supplying them and since then others have come together in a cooperative system, and they want to set up at least one sugar factory capable of supplying at regional level and capacity, and they would have expected the government to help with this. Now that the sugar quota in the European Union has ceased, there is also a legal possibility for this, and it only requires government will. So here's the message that farmers in Rába and the region still have the will, the enthusiasm to produce sugar beets. I would like to ask the government to provide them with either an interest-free loan in a cooperative system or a legal environment that will ensure that this investment is viable and that they dare to take it at all, whether they dare to take it. A lot of people have been looking for me with hunting problems, and many cases in the region have now reached the court stage. From this point on, I know that it is not your responsibility, but it must be mentioned that in many cases, so many areas, so many hunting areas, could have come to this serious situation, that hunters were fighting against each other, and today they are trying to find their truth in court, it is only the responsibility of the government, because, in many cases, aside from the professional aspects, it is only party policy aspects, and it was decided who would be in one area, who was closer to the politicians of Fidesz, or where the politicians of Fidesz were hunting. These are the problems that are now the most burning in the region and which I wanted to interpret. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-24-210	I give Mr János Fónagy the opportunity to answer.
u2017-10-24-211	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It always brings back memories of such a comment. I must say that I have heard this tone of voice, this tone of voice specifically from the mouths of the socialist MEPs who are now becoming more and more quacking with you, years ago. [[There's a rush in Jobbik's benches.]] But, God, the world is changing. By the way, the government, with the thoughtful use of EU and domestic budgetary resources, offers opportunities for catching up and development in each county and in each of the smaller regions of each county, including in the region you represent. In addition to the development of the infrastructure network, we support businesses, as is known, in line with our long-standing intention to ensure the preservation of the countryside, in principle, by improving economic conditions. GINOP, in line with the government's and the objectives of business development, reindustrialisation, innovation, competitiveness and employment, in particular businesses, and I would like to add that it primarily finances interventions supporting the growth, efficiency, modernisation, innovation potential of small and medium-sized enterprises and the competitiveness of the workforce. The programme has a budget of HUF 2733 billion, so it is an extremely significant amount. This programme has set out a number of priority axes, including a number of development objectives, so that the areas that you may have listed in the programme, as well as the development of popular grants, R &amp; D and innovation capacities for the acquisition, development of equipment for small businesses, and site development. With regard to employment, the programme will finance the promotion of active labour market instruments for disadvantaged people and young people, the launch of programmes to support the placement of young people, to help them become trainees and entrepreneurs, and the development of social enterprises. Interventions can increase the chances of the inactive and unemployed and reduce youth unemployment. Honourable Congressman, This programme is ready to accommodate and re-launch the specific capacity of infrastructure, industry or agricultural and food processing, which you have mentioned, and I believe that the aim is not to upset them, but to prepare them in a technical and economic way. In order to facilitate a development, as I have just said, the resources are available, with the necessary entrepreneurial, investor intent and, not least, the provision or exploration of the market. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-24-212	Thank you. Mr Péter Hoppál applied for a speech after the next agenda: the title of School and Kindergarten Development in Baranya. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-24-213	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The result of a serious and many years of work on the part of the Hungarian people is that today we can say that we can be citizens of Hungary, a country that is constantly growing and proud. In many respects, including in economic and demographic terms, we have managed not only to emerge from the deepest chasm of the first decade of the 2000s, but also to move towards development with a clear and transparent government policy and great forces. Just as the government, as we Members of Parliament, cannot be satisfied with short-term goals and results, no progress can be long-term without the care of future generations. For all nations, expanding the future perspectives of new generations should be the most important task, as this will ensure the future of the nation itself. With a calm heart, we can say that the civilian government has done a great deal since 2010 to surpass the state of education it inherited. [[14.50]] I would like to say a little more about the recently announced school and kindergarten development programme, which has not been seen for decades. The government has spent more than HUF 100-100 billion on school and kindergarten development since the 2010s, and this is indeed an investment that will not have direct financial benefits, but will affect the future of an entire nation: classrooms, schools, gymnasiums and complete schools are being built all over the country today. The purpose of these improvements is to ensure that children are XXI. Learn under century conditions and have more opportunities to play sports. The 527 institutions of nearly 400 settlements are renewed from 81.2 billion forints, mainly in disadvantaged settlements where it is most needed. Since 2010, more than 500 schools have been renewed from 38.2 billion national sources and more than HUF 100 billion is available for the expansion of kindergarten seats. It is clear, therefore, that the government is willing to create all the necessary tools for better education and learning under better conditions for Hungarian children. There are areas of the country, such a narrower Patriam and its surroundings, Baranya County, where ensuring a higher standard of education and education in each settlement can indeed be a means of creating opportunities and achieving a better life. For the future of Baranya County, therefore, it is a great and serious achievement that, in the 2014-2020 EU cycle, the operational programme for the development of human resources, the EFOP funding will result in a total of HUF 11 billion and HUF 834 million in infrastructure development in the county in the framework of three calls. The first, code number and EFOP 4.1.1 development programme is about the long-awaited infrastructure development of ecclesiastical educational institutions. In my constituency, three key institutions won support: in maintaining the diocese of Pécs, the Catholic St. Mór School Centre will be renewed with a grant of HUF 1.25 billion, building a sports hall and a gym in Pécs; the Zoltán Kodály Catholic Primary School in Komló will also receive serious infrastructure development, renovation, new kindergarten building with a grant of HUF 900 million; and the Reformed College of Pécs, operating in the maintenance of the Reformed Church of Baranya, can build its 16 classroom primary school with HUF 1 billion of HUF 320 million. The other two are large constructions: the EFOP 4.1.2, the School 2020 programme, which aimed at infrastructure development, the promotion of disadvantage compensation and the creation of conditions for quality education; the other is the 4.1.3 construction, which facilitates the development of infrastructure for the learning facilities of state-owned public education institutions. In the latter two schemes, the institutions of Baranya received HUF 6.1 billion and HUF 2.2 billion, complementing the first aid of EUR 3.4 billion already mentioned. In the latter two structures, I would like to mention some institutions in my constituency. The primary school of the Komló Kökönyösi High School of Gagarin can be renewed, the Éva Janikovszky Primary School of Kozármisleny will be completely renewed by receiving new classrooms. The Szilvasi Primary School of Komló can be renewed, Vasas-Hirdi Primary School will be supported, the Pécs Kodály Zoltán High School is one of them, the Hajnóczy József College in Pécs, the Donát Bánki Primary School in Street, as well as the Berkesdi Fekete István Primary School. We are pleased that these improvements will serve the future, and we continue to ask the government to support the renovation of the Baranya education system. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-24-214	Thank you. I also give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. [[On Dr. János Fónagy's signal:]] He says he doesn't want to answer that right now. Ladies and gentlemen, Member László Kiss applied for a post-meeting speech: . Back from the coast of Rome! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-24-215	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I have already started to talk about the history of the Roman-coastal mobile barrier and the flood protection in general over the past decade and a half, and I would like to continue with this comment, as the story goes far enough and has many forks. The next etap we have to talk about is 9 October 2016, when the locals protest against the mobile barrier, a broad civil cooperation took place here. On 5 April 2017, the Metropolitan Assembly decided on the plan and set out the exact trail. This is very important, because this is where it became clear to everyone exactly where the new dam is, and exactly what perspective is there for the construction of the mobile dam. On 14 June, the mobile barrier will also receive permission from the Municipality of Budapest.2017. The first retail forum is on this issue on 6 March 2006 and so far it is the only public forum organised by the local government. This is very important, because before that, information from the public about the project itself, which was expected, and what the opposition parties and even the local Fidesz considered important, was not done. On the 13th of March, thanks to this, the III. All opposition parties in the district, i.e. all such parties, initiate a local referendum in a joint declaration, this is rejected by the local electoral committee. The plan, which has been orbiting in the capital since April, I have told you about when it will be adopted, is circling everywhere virtually without risk analysis and substantial procurement procedures. A good example is the meetings of the Budapest City Council, where Members voted either as a locally divided agenda or without precise background calculations on both the trail and the risk of the matter. To date, no risk analysis plan has been signed by anyone on this project. Despite all of this, as I said, the capital will allow the construction on 14 June 2017, so two individuals will initiate a referendum in this case, which is rejected by the Budapest Electoral Commission, but it can be seen that on 10 October, however, the Curia decided that a referendum on the mobile dam could be initiated at all levels in Budapest. In September, Mayor István Tarlós first declares that he wants a referendum, which he initiates, and then in a week he says that we misunderstood his words, and he never said that, but of course there will be no obstacle to a referendum, because the opinion of the locals is important. Compared to this, the project itself will be torpedoed by the capital itself in a decision on 18 October 2017 by withdrawing the decision itself in questions relating to the referendum. Right now, the story is here, and we are waiting for what will be the continuation of the case, because flood protection is clearly needed in Section III. It's a district, but that doesn't necessarily mean a mobile barrier. Of course, there are many charges against the various III. It is important to note that this plan has never been voted by any opposition politician in this form. In 2009, when it was a capital decision, the plan was about a little more than HUF 4 billion instead of the current HUF 40 billion, instead of cutting down 400-500 trees instead of 2,500 trees. We were talking about strengthening the line of defense on Nanási Road, and the Roman-coastal mobile barrier was an additional defense, and this is not the case. You were supposed to ask the locals, that's not what this is about. It was said to inform the locals, this is not the case, and no such meaningful information has been made. The visual design, prepared by the building company on behalf of the capital city, is certainly interesting, which belongs to the category of science fiction, has nothing to do with the plans, because it must be signed that there is no requirement that the visual design, which must be displayed to the public for blinding purposes, should be like reality. So basically, you can say there's a smokescreen going on in this area. Annex III is amended in accordance with Annex III to this Regulation. district people want flood protection, but they want to be clear, and they don't want real estate. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-10-24-216	I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. [[15.00]]
u2017-10-24-217	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, [[He's sighing. Z. Carpathian Daniel: It will be difficult.]] You are aware, for the sake of the others, that the integration conditions of the Roman coast are generally said to have started in the late 1800s, in the early 1900s, the XX. In the first half of the century, the structure and the image of the building were largely won by today's image in the eighties and nineties, and the settlement image was practically formed for the two thousand years. The essence of this established settlement is that there is a section, the classic part of Óbuda, which lies northwest of Öv Road, and it was already a protected area, and over the last decades, they have practically built in the green belt that now requires protection based on its population and property. Allow me one more sentence in the magistrate's office. I am convinced, personally, that flood relief of the Roman coast and works such as flood protection are not created as a result of emotions, not as a result of emotion, not as a result of political struggles, but as a basically a professional decision. Obviously, every professional decision requires some consensus. Just as an example, in the 1800s, when the flood protection of Budapest's interior and today's quays were built by the Council of Public Works, there were very tough debates, but these were professional debates, and not political sentiment took away the people and social groups involved. By the way - as is well known - in the Roman-coastal investment, the Metropolitan Municipality has a primary responsibility, the technical preparation of the investment was carried out and carried out by the Mayor's Office, the basic decisions and decisions are taken by the General Assembly of Budapest's Capital. The defences are owned by the Metropolitan Municipality, and therefore their maintenance and development is ensured by the Metropolitan Municipality in accordance with legal regulations. These words have a bearing on the fact that the City Council, as a body, has a responsibility in terms of the life and property protection of citizens, but also a right to a decision. It can be concluded that the currently available water rights permit plan basically satisfies the professional conditions that the client, the Municipality of Budapest, has put into the planning task. The development of flood protection should be consistent with the exploitation of the area concerned and with the development of coastal use. I say this to my fellow Members, to whom the location and the situation are not familiar, that in practice and in terms of needs, three possible lines of defence have been mentioned. As I mentioned, flood protection is the responsibility of the Municipality of Budapest. The capital, as Congressman said, decided earlier on the implementation of the coast trail of the three. With this decision, the capital will also implement the flood protection of an area band of about 70 hectares, currently located in a holiday zone between the Nánási út-King road and the waterfront, within the framework of the flood protection development of the stellar cove. It is also part of the question - as Congressman said - that the Municipality of Budapest has decided not to issue a referendum on the Roman-coastal mobile barrier, but, as far as I know, has made arrangements to start the necessary work on the two shores of the floodgates, i.e. in the two areas most frequented. Personally and on behalf of the government, I trust that both the population of the territory - and I would like to emphasise this because a large referendum in the capital involves a number of people in which they are not affected - to come to a conclusion sooner or later [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And he'll make the right decision. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-10-24-218	Mr Sándor Burány applied for a speech after the next agenda: It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-24-219	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, There is a place in Budapest next to the Hungária körút, where there are three important institutions, if not the most important, for the protection of the nation. There is the Alert Police, there is the Counter-Terrorism Center, and there is the university where the future Hungarian soldiers are trained. You would think that if there was a safe place in Hungary, it would be this area, since the national headquarters and most important institutions of three such law enforcement bodies are here. The bitter reality is that there is no such thing. The government that promised to tidy up the country in a few weeks will assist in unqualified situations in the immediate vicinity of three of these law enforcement agencies. As if we were not walking on the streets of Budapest, a large European city, but on the streets of the third world, where there is no public cleanliness at all, there is no public safety at all, on the contrary, we can walk to the waist in the trash mountains, including the mountains of used drug needles, and on public safety, it is enough to say that, according to the locals, anyone can enter these houses, but it is not certain that they can come out, prostitution is flourishing. It is probably the darkest place in Hungary, the drug distribution and drug den in this place. The lives of hundreds of families are taking place under such unpredictable circumstances. The everyday life of these families is simply hell. We all know that there is only one solution here, and that is what the district government is trying to do: to buy out these apartments, to offer normal apartments to people who are still living there, or to allow them to buy them from the value of the apartments, to eliminate illegal housing, to reclaim the whole area and to use it for a greater purpose. I strongly ask the Government to give all the assistance it needs to the Municipality of Kőbánya, since the 21st century is the only way to achieve this. In the century, conditions like this, conditions like this, people can't live the way they live now, and the government assists in this. I would also like to talk about another problem in the quarry. In 2014, Fidesz campaigned before the municipal elections at the so-called Jancsi colony - this is a MÁV colony - to enable the people living there to buy these apartments. As the first step of this, the municipality will receive these apartments as property, and then the municipality will ensure that the people living there have lived through a multitude of difficult legal situations, either by providing them with normal rents or by allowing them to purchase these apartments. In this case, too, people have been deceived. In the past, the Secretary-General Fó Nagy himself indicated that the government is working to ensure that these people who live at the MÁV site can buy their apartment. A word of this has not been realized. At the moment, although the municipality owns these apartments, it is not in its right mind to start these sales, nor is it willing to admit in the rents that this complex legal situation, which was created there, cannot be classified into any category, nor does it establish rents as if it were anywhere else in Stone Mine. [[15.10]] It's quite simply unpredictable. You have to do what you promised these people. There are two possible solutions. One is to keep the promise of Fidesz, the government and the municipality, and sell these people their apartments, or provide a discount rent that acknowledges the complicated situation and the sacrifice that these people, with their own hands' work, have renovated the former service apartments. Dear House, So I ask the government to help us solve these two problems effectively, because nothing is happening at the moment, the conditions are unblessed. All that's happened is that you've fooled people. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-10-24-220	I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2017-10-24-221	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I believe that both areas have been mentioned several times before the public in Parliament, and in both areas - and I am not saying this here because of the political repulsion - you must also acknowledge that this situation has not developed in the last seven years. This is the result of many decades of process, which has led to different reasons in the two areas, but the situation that you have outlined has evolved. By the way, both areas are essentially municipal tasks and responsibilities. Allow this House first to say a few words about the MÁV site. Indeed, here more than a hundred years ago, these were the service dwellings of MÁV employees, and, as the Member pointed out, the government took the steps requested by the representative three to four years ago, and the Hungarian National Asset Manager transferred the property of these properties to the municipality as far as I know. The problem was that there was an infrastructure system here a hundred years ago, and the municipality would simply deceive the pensioners who lived there or the heirs and descendants of pensioners who lived there, if they were to put on the burden of hundreds of millions of people's infrastructure development by selling flats even at reduced prices. It is therefore clear that, if the physical survival of those properties is required by the residents, the financing and renovation of those properties must be resolved. The other area also falls essentially within the competence of the local government. To the best of my knowledge, that area has been exposed several times, so to speak, cleaned up, and the residents and the region have a responsibility to always re-produce these problems there. I am convinced that the government, including the Ministry of the Interior and the municipality, will take the necessary measures between the options available, and will find a solution to the questions you ask, which the socialist governments at the time have actively participated in with their passivity. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-10-24-222	Thank you. Member Mr Sallai R. Benedek spoke after the next agenda: Mr Sándor Fazekas with the title of the beta universe. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-24-223	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I often wonder that when the leaders of the FM speak, they simply lie and try to deceive the public, as they have done so many times, because Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs, in the case of Kishantosi, said that he had deceived the public, Sándor Fazekas, the FM, not only said in my case that the court had decided that all three had deceived the public, but that both the FM and Sándor Fazekas had to pay a fee. So I don't know if it's just the usual lie, or if they've moved away from reality at such a level that they can't even interpret things in reality and in the world. An excellent example of this is what happened in Parliament last week and today, since, in practice, the Constitutional Court made a rather decisive decision last week. For the first time, the Constitutional Court assessed the constitutional obligation of Hungarian society to preserve Natura 2000 protected areas, and first dealt with the moral obligation of Hungarian society and the governments at all times to preserve the natural resources and biodiversity of this unique Pannonian biogeographical region throughout the European Union. Obviously, with my opposition fellow Members, it was not just the basis of our submission for nature conservation purposes, it was the basis of the land for farmers! There was also some kind of attack on the program entitled "The Rich," because it was clear that exactly what the government was talking about was the opposite of selling the Hungarian land to large farmers, speculators and foreigners. The Constitutional Court stated the two decisions that Sándor Fazekas and our fellow Member Pócs, the melon producer of Fidesz, made today, assessed the victory they had won and how well it was in the decisions of the Constitutional Court. I don't know if there's anyone in the entire FM who can read a decision by reading it, or whether they're knowingly fooling the public, or really living in a beta universe, and they don't know what's real. I quote the statement of the Constitutional Court:. The Constitutional Court found the Parliament's failure to sell state-owned Natura 2000 land. And then they send this poor little puddle here. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] to tell them that they won and that everything was fine with the legislation. Well, here it is in the text: the Constitutional Court dealt with certain legal issues concerning the sale of public land within the Natura 2000 network in a subsequent norm-control procedure. There were two topics last week, which were judged, and the other title of the Constitutional Court: the Constitutional Court has taken a new decision to protect natural resources, the National Assembly has led to a failure to comply with the fundamental law by not providing for a rule to ensure the long-term preservation of the assets of the National Earth Fund protected by fundamental rules at the same time as the amendment of the National Earth Fund Act. The Constitutional Court stated in two decisions that the National Earth Fund is an exhausting natural resource of Hungarian society, the Hungarian nation, and cannot be drained. In two independent resolutions, the Constitutional Court stated that the Hungarian Parliament had a legislative obligation, in part until the last day of May 2018 and until the last day of June, to establish the laws that provide adequate guarantees in a constitutional system to maintain this most important natural resource for the nation. Accordingly, he ordered Parliament to create legislation that guarantees that the National Fund of Earth would be emptied and does not create the possibility of any government at any time, be it in any colour, to empty it with continuous sales. In the other decision, it drew attention to the fact that Natura 2000 areas, i.e. protected areas at EU level, confer on the country biodiversity conservation resulting from an EU obligation that cannot be abandoned by the country. Overall, they could learn a great deal in this application in the FM if they read the full decision. In particular, I would recommend the parallel opinion of Judge Marcel Szabó and the special opinions of Ildikó Marosi, István Stumpf and Ágnes Czine, who not only made these findings, but who themselves did not accept the decision because they would also have suggested rejecting the previous legislation proposed by Fidesz. Thus, the Constitutional Court specifically stated that the Parliament had a legislative obligation and that Fidesz had made a serious mistake, since it failed to fulfil both its task of endangering natural values and the obligation to preserve the national treasure of the National Land Fund. These two simple decisions are not interpreted by the Ministry of Agriculture, of course János Pócs does not interpret them, nor does Sándor Fazekas interpret them. It is a pity that they live in another world, because in this world it would be good to try to fulfill our constitutional obligations. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-10-24-224	I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2017-10-24-225	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I do not know what the words "supposed" and "rejected" in your interpretation mean, in the Ministry of Agriculture it is clear that you, even though you have repeatedly tried to destroy the government's actions to promote and support the interests of farmers, have failed to do so. It did not succeed, because the Constitutional Court clearly rejected and rejected the land for farmers! The legal background of the programme. [[15.20]] So the Hungarian farmers won again, and you failed. The Constitutional Court made only two comments, rejecting opposition representatives' comments. One of the comments was the need to regulate the exact fate of the money from the sale of land, the total amount cannot be deducted from the Earth Fund for the future, and on the other hand it is clear that the sale of Natura 2000 sites was not found to be unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. So there is no reason for the government to reduce their protection by selling Natura 2000 sites. The sale was therefore legal and was in line with the norm. The Ministry also emphasised in its communication, in line with the decisions, and the Ministry of Agriculture considers it important to preserve and increase the state's strategic land assets. The land for the farmers! However, the land sales of the programme did not endanger this land asset, as there are currently more than 1.6 million hectares of land owned by the state, and the National Land Fund Management Organisation also purchases land for billions of dollars a year. Similarly, the State considers it important to regulate precisely the management of valuable Natura 2000 sites. As a result of these decisions, we intend to fulfil the legislative tasks of a technical nature, which do not affect the practice of state land sales so far. However, we also ask the LMP to vote for the necessary legislative amendments, contrary to its previous position when it did not vote in favour of farmers. The Constitutional Court's decisions confirmed the largest state land sale programme in recent decades, which allowed nearly 30 thousand Hungarian farmers to acquire land, with a total of 200,000 hectares of state land being sold. [[Sallai R. Benedict intervenes.]] There's never been a state land package like the land for farmers before! The program, which has strengthened the development of tens of thousands of Hungarian farmers, small and medium estates through lease applications and land sales, has helped to strengthen its agricultural economic positions. So the decision - and in this, Congressman, whatever it is you're trying to explain - is the clear victory of the government's agricultural policy over opposition anti-farming [[Sallai R. Benedict intervenes.]] [[Sallai R. Benedict intervenes.]] And we hope that these important decisions may result in the cessation of continuous actions and discrediting campaigns against the interests of Hungarian farmers. (Sallai R. Benedict intervenes. ) Thank you, Mr President.
u2017-10-24-226	Thank you. After the agenda, Mr Ander Balázs applied for a post-scheduled speech: after the Soros plan, when will they start consulting on a South Somogy plan? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-24-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Before I become a Soros charterer here myself, in the reply of the Secretary of State, I would like to say that in South Somogy no one wants to see a migrant other than some extreme liberal madman. That's how I feel about it, by the way. I was there two years ago, when they pushed us from Croatia, they put that unruly crowd on us. The fact is that anyone who had eyes for vision could clearly see that this unintegrated and otherwise unintegrating Asian and African horde seeking Europe does not belong here - it's as simple as that. So let's talk about it there, Mr. Secretary of State, not if your goal is not to continue filling the pockets of your own oligarchs and of the Habony works with the billions that have flown out of it. There is something else that should be consulted on the southern ferret of Somogyland, which I can safely say is that if God looked back, he would see this behind him, and I am not putting it this way, but the former bishop of the county said: a hundred years after the extinction of the Ormania, death came to Somogy County, and this demographic problem, which should be discussed there in the southern part of the county, is even more tangible and a huge human resources disaster, but I would rather say that it will cause a national disaster. What do I mean? In 1980, the county had a population of 360,000, which is now down to 310,000. The number of Hungarians in the county was 340 thousand in 1980, and now there are only 250 thousand of them left, and if everything goes on, it doesn't take half a century, and the population of the least populated county will fall to 200,000. This is what we should be consulting on, which is what the government should come up with, but the thing is, we don't see something like this there in South Somogy, Mr. Secretary of State. There are walks from my constituency, by the way, where the figures of death are one and a half times worse, worse, more tragic than the national bad figures, such as Csurgo or the district of Barcsi. Then we would also need to consult if we discussed how the foreign-interested or domestic Dumplings are destroying the countryside, how much the population retention force has increased in this small-walled landscape. I would like to mention here the example of the cannery in Nagyatád, which once had 50 thousand tons of capacity and had 1500 people employed, and now the number of employees - besides the fact that production is no longer in place, they may only pack and carry on logistics - has fallen below 100. Jobbik says that one of Hungary's break-out points could be the agricultural sector, our agricultural industry, our food industry, and in this connection you refuse to consult, there is no progress in that region, and at some point in South Somogy, the 10-percent estate was able to produce 30-40 percent of the total value of agricultural production. So the working mood, the work culture would still be there, but those long sales chains make it impossible for the Hungarian people to thrive; it is a very narrow parasite elite that is skimming off the profits here too. Then we should also consult on transport, the state of road 6, which is life-threatening, making life difficult for those travelling between Barcs and Pécs, the condition of road 68 or the road between Kadarkút-Barcs, between Csurgó-Barcs and the smaller side roads should also be consulted. We should also talk about the time when Barcs will be once again the capital of the Drava, if you strongly refuse to use Drava with multifunctional hydrotechnical facilities and refuse to cooperate with the Croatians in this regard. We should talk about the 7th point of the then university youth, the wage demand, the wages that young people encounter and face in South Somogy, which drives them away from their homeland quite simply. This should be discussed, Mr Secretary of State, and very, very many things that you are unwilling to talk about - for example, whether the objectives of the National Development 2030 are being achieved. How are we doing with the objectives set out there, which are very beautiful and which Jobbik should also support? Thank you for your attention and I look forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-24-228	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2017-10-24-229	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, In advance, allow me to say that local development - and thus the southern development of Somogy County and Somogy County - is a fundamental starting point for local spatial planning. Within the limits of the budget, the government's basic task within the framework of the implementation of the budget is to provide the funds provided for this area. For Somogy county, there is more than HUF 43 billion in the operational programme of regional and local development, available in Hungarian within the framework of the TOP; it depends on what plans and ideas you have there. From this framework, industrial parks, cycling paths, kindergartens, crèches, basic health services, tourist development can be financed, the road development investments mentioned by you. [[15.30]] The source is there, it is assured, it is obvious that basically local planning, local initiatives are needed. I do not dispute for a minute that Somogy, including South Somogy, is historically one of the most problematic places in the country, and it is not by chance that the government's attention has been focused on this region so far, with the support of various regional and territorial plans, and that is the case and will continue to be the case in the future. By the way, while I say the numbers here: in addition to the county source, Kaposvár county-righted city has an additional HUF 14.75 and nearly 15 billion available under the TOP. This total allocation was announced by the end of March 2017 and the total TOP resource became available to the region. We look forward to the region's proposals, plans, ideas. The government is available. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-24-230	Thank you. Mr Sebestyén Vágó applied for a speech after the next agenda:.The Day of Bulgarian-Hungarian Friendship. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-24-231	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, On 19 October this year, on the basis of the decision of the Bulgarian National Assembly and the Hungarian Parliament, we celebrated the Bulgarian-Hungarian friendship day together for the second time. It is a very important day for me, because in the past I was very close to the Bulgarian people from among the European nations, and I am also the president of the Bulgarian-Hungarian Friendship Department of the Interparlamental Union, and through official relations, I can also say that personal friendships are also linked to Bulgaria, whether Hungarians living in Bulgaria or Bulgarian friends. Why is Bulgarian-Hungarian friendship also important to us, it is enough to think that both of us are ancient Christian peoples of Europe, one of the symbols of this was that minority advocate Varga Simeon said that in Hungary, one of the most sacred places, the Basilica of Esztergom and one of the oldest and oldest Christian churches in Europe, there is a plaque that commemorates Szent János Rila and Bulgarian-Hungarian friendship. But there are a lot of intersections in the lives of the two peoples, including sad and less sad events and saving events. Among the sad ones, I could mention the Turkish occupation, of which we have had 150 years, our Bulgarian brothers were not in such a fortunate position, they could endure and endure Turkish conquest and Turkish rule for 500 years. But we can also find common points of intersection in the modern age, these are not so saving and so joyful events, this is nothing more than the loss of territory after the First World War, which means that our Bulgarian brothers can talk about Bulgarians across borders as well as we can talk about Hungarians across borders. The issue of minorities is even more important than them, because as a result of the 500-year-old Turkish occupation, a large number of people fled from Turkish rule and Turkish occupation, so we can meet a significant Bulgarian minority in many parts of Europe and thus also in Hungary. Or we can talk about the years of socialism when the Bulgarian people were oppressed and oppressed just as they did the Hungarian people. That is why it is important to be friends with the two peoples, because after such a past, we had to recover from these situations, and it does not matter which people have found answers to the questions that arise, the problems that arise. I believe that it is not a shame to learn from another person either as a person or as a nation, if that other person finds a better example in his own life, finds a better solution to a problem in his life, so it is not a shame for us to find a good example either in Bulgarian solutions, and Bulgaria is not ashamed to buy from the Hungarian examples that we might be able to help each other. But speaking of common intersections and minority politics, there are times when our interests meet, and there is a need for joint action in order to promote interest. If we were to look at the latest events, I could bring up the Ukrainian educational law, which affects not only the Hungarians of Transcarpathia in Ukraine, but also the hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian minorities in Ukraine. But if I have already mentioned the minority issue, I can also mention that there are examples to follow, and there are some successes, which I would like to mention here, and there are also Bulgarian successes, the last thing that Bulgarian diplomacy, Bulgarian politics, has achieved in the interests of the Bulgarian minority in Albania. As I said, many times we are plagued by the same problems. As with former socialist countries, we are also affected by the fact that our wages, although we are within the framework of the European Union, are much lower than those of workers in the EU countries west of Lajta. We must therefore take action against this, because not only can it cause problems of living, but we also have to deal with the issue of emigration and the negative consequences of emigration, both in Bulgaria and in Hungary. It is therefore a pleasure for me that Bulgaria, as a country, has almost been the first to join our Wage Union initiative. In contrast to Hungary, it was precisely a party with government functions and its youth organisation that joined this initiative in Bulgaria. So there it is not the government's opposition, but the government's support for this initiative. I would also like to say this as a warning to the Hungarian Government to support our wage Union initiative and to work together with the Bulgarians and other nations for equal wages in Europe. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-24-232	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2017-10-24-233	Thank you, Mr. President. I would just like to point out that the government has already responded to the previous speech by the speaker on the day of Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-24-234	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát applied for a speech after the next agenda:. How much longer? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-24-235	Mr President, Dear House, As has already been said today as a follow-up to our series on the Calvary of those who have suffered foreign exchange credit, indeed, when we celebrated the anniversary of the warriors of 56 heroes, we remembered this much more precisely - because calling the outbreak of the revolution a mere celebration would be a bit strong, although it was committed by fellow members of the Fidesz, but we will not only remember the day of the outbreak of the revolution, but also the brutal terror that followed it - we can see that a very strange symbolic event will take place this week, that is to say, I hope that it will not happen, because they intend to evict a fighter and his family members from his home. Obviously, I would like to spare the secretary of state who was left here alone to answer the agendas on all kinds of matters, since I have already told the Minister appointed by Viktor Orbán the background of this matter, and I have sent him the invitation together with the invitation to try to intervene in the interests of the family until Thursday. However, I have to say here that this government has promised something, that it has promised not to leave anyone on the side of the road, that Hungarian families will not be in a mass situation on a systemic basis, but we do see that this year this government may have set an eviction record, so even in the Gyurcsány-Bajna era, which I did not respect at all and which was considered an economic emergency period, we could not meet so many evictions, and obviously not even in the first years of the Fidesz government, because the revival took place later. In many cases, pro-government colleagues refer back to the fact that this problem was created because the governments called Balliberals were practically running these types of credit, forcing the population to do so. The fact is that the flow chart started a little earlier, because in 2001 - let us remember who governed it then - it was possible to unilaterally amend the contracts in a manner that resulted in a mass of bank abuse. We also see that although Fidesz-KDNP was re-elected nine years after 2001, it did not see its own error, it did not change this system in such a way that these unilateral contractual amendments could be completely excluded. [[15.40]] And when it was forinted, they did not exchange these so-called loans at the rate of the day of admission, as Jobbik suggested, i.e. who recorded them at HUF 155 or HUF 160, at the rate of a hard-core market exchange rate of HUF 256, leaving a large part of the excesses of its executives; leaving a large part of the overextensions of the notaries; not counting the failures of the public oversight system and its contractors. In fact, financial consumer protection was done in a dissipated way, since this consumer protection sector was tried to be integrated exactly under the Hungarian National Bank, so it should have been partially checked by one of the auditors. It's amazing, by the way, maybe it's thinning your mates in Europe. But what we can see is that if this promise bang has not been fulfilled, and I can even say that not a small part of it, perhaps it would be worthy of a gentleman on the part of this government, if, today, it were to announce an eviction moratorium. He would do this at least until the parliamentary elections, in order to ensure that if you no longer managed to deal with this problem in substance, then a next government, I hope, can at least try to cope with the huge backlog that these two successive Orbán governments have accumulated. And it would be obvious that it will not be easy to resolve this situation, but the path can only be marked by the HUFing of loans at the rate of admission and the reduction of the excesses mentioned. This is why Jobbik organizes a series of foreign exchange-credit round tables, where we are expecting the invitation of the government in addition to the invitation of all parties in the future, precisely to create a face-to-face with the victims. In the meantime, until this confrontation is established or even the moratorium is announced, I can only express my hope that, although I would like to draw Viktor Orbán's attention today to intervene in the interests of the 56 hero and his family, of course, within the funny legislative framework, Viktor Orbán did not answer my immediate question, he delegated his reply to the Minister of Agriculture. I hope that at least this symbolic and amazing situation cannot arise as a result of the intervention of this minister, and that at least this hero of 56 and his family will be saved, but this does not excuse us from the responsibility of improving the situation of all Hungarian families; we must help everyone who is in such a catastrophic situation without his own fault. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-10-24-236	Mr. Secretary of State János Fónagy has the floor.
u2017-10-24-237	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, It is not the first time that we call to the attention of Parliament and the public that Jobbik has not always said so and has behaved this way in relation to foreign exchange lenders. [[Dr. István Apáti:]] Many politicians, many of you and your party presidents, have not voted either for the accountability of banks or forinting. The introduction of a price barrier has not been voted in favour. [[Constant interruptions from Jobbik's benches.]] Step-by-step measures to enable the daily lives of foreign exchange lenders and the legal basis for the tasks available for the country's opportunities have not been voted on. As far as the Member's comments in 2001 and 2002 are concerned, you should be reminded, please look into the fact that the 2001 measures did not bring this consequence, but the socialist steps taken after 2002 that resulted in the abolition of the very favourable housing loans at the time available to society and then the consequences thereof. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that although the foreign exchange credit problem is predominantly culminated in relation to housing, real estate, evictions and creditors' claims are not only made by financial institution claims, but also by a number of other private-law claims, whether alimony or other private-law claims. With regard to eviction, I would like to recall that since 2003, the so-called winter eviction moratorium has been in place, which provides for an eviction moratorium for the period from 1 December to 1 March. Since 2011, the National Asset Manager has been operating the possibility under the NET programme to avoid eviction and provide long-term housing for a reduced rent. So far, we have provided this opportunity for 36,000 families. Such a measure has been, in recent years, private bankruptcy, which has started slowly but slowly, and according to the data of 18 October, 1048 debt settlement procedures have been initiated so far. On this basis, I believe that, since 2010, the government has taken all the necessary and possible steps for both foreign exchange credentials and other claims for citizens in emergency situations in relation to their housing. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-10-24-238	Thank you. Member Gergely Kulcsár applied for a speech after the next agenda:. On the margins of a referendum - Berettyóújfalu 2017. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-24-239	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Today's oral question was about the prison hospital in Berettyóújfalu, but because of the limited time frame, I couldn't tell you much. The story, knowingly, began this spring, without any expert studies or public consultation, the mayor of Fidesz brought the plan of the prison hospital to the local council. At the meeting, the Mura Intermediary was presented as a very overwhelming success propaganda, so the panel supported it. A few days later, several municipal representatives revised their position and indicated that they did not support the construction of the prison hospital in the city. This position was shared by the majority of the people of Berettyóújfalu, and this was also expressed in the forums held at the beginning of summer. In the sense of the public mood, the rulers of the city decided to initiate a local referendum on the matter, knowing that the Fidesz legislation made the threshold of validity unrealistically high in the referendums, which means that it is virtually impossible to hold a valid referendum. In Hungarian, the Fideszes played what democrats are, giving the people the decision, and knowing that the result, whatever it is, is not binding on the body. It was also part of the Mura Intermediary that they asked the referendum question by saying that whoever opposed the prison hospital had to vote in favour of the person who supported it, no, thus increasing insecurity and confusion in the minds of the people. The Fidesz has practically withdrawn from the referendum campaign in order to prevent enough people from going to vote. The fact that the parties on the left did not push themselves in the campaign confirms the words of their former Prime Minister. László Botka said that the majority in the MSZP do not want a change of government, and there are Fidesz agents in the party. But back to the subject: despite the fact that the city's leadership and the governing parties have done their best not to be an electoralist in Berettyóújfalu, among other things, they have fled from a civilized debate, the majority of Bihar's people have seen how much harm a prison hospital can do to the region and the locals. In addition to the security risks, the operation of the Count Tisza István Hospital can be negatively affected by the construction of such a facility, increasing waiting lists, siphoning away health workers from civilian patients, and many more negatives. On October 8, the evening of the referendum, the creators of the Mura Intermediary Plan to free criminals to the city and the sick were pleased to call to the press that the referendum had not been valid. What was discreetly silenced was that two thirds of those who went to vote took a stand against the prison hospital. Nearly as many people voted against him as the mayor's seat raised István Muraközi. What followed was beyond imagination. At the next board meeting, the mayor refused to speak to one of the hospital's chief doctors, Dr Zákány Zsolt, and took this arrogant, anti-democratic step towards me. Then they began to embarrass Dr. Zakány in a truly astonishing and outrageous way. At first, he was a victim of whispering propaganda. This propaganda was advocated by the local mayor and some of the Fidesz Members and then lied about it in a statement. Finally, he was relieved of his chief medical position in a dictatorship just because he did not agree with the Fidesz lords. Strangely enough, at yesterday's berettyóújfalui's memorial in 56 the Mayor said that they have democracy because they can say the opposite opinion, and there is no consequence. Well, we can see that there is, so that's when the mayor of Fidesz lied. [[15.50]] In view of all this, Secretary of State Károly Kontra's impertinent response to my question today, who said that we should respect the outcome of the referendum, even though you do not respect the fact that two thirds of the people have taken a stand against you. And it's a shame and a shame to be dealt with by a respected physician. Shame on you! István Muraközi mayor and his brother Zoltán Muraköli, hospital director and their uncle István Vitányi's family business, the Muraközi plan, seems to be fulfilled. But with these aggressive, dictatorial methods, they open their eyes to more and more local people, and I'm sure they'll still have their fasts. Last but not least, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that on Friday, October 27, at 16 o'clock at the entrance of the Berettyóújfalu hospital, the locals will stand by Zsolt Zákány at a silent demonstration. And thank you, Dr Zákány Zsolt, for his stand for the people of Berettyóújfalu and Bihar, and I thank the civil organizers for this demonstration. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-24-240	Thank you. Once again, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2017-10-24-241	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In all cases, the government respects the will of the population, the citizens living on the ground, including the result of the local referendum. We'll set up a prison hospital where the cooperating population can support and live with it. [[Gergely Kulcsár: But the population does not support it!]] Jobbik is trying to turn people against building a prison hospital out of pure political gain. The new villagers didn't listen to Jobbik's intrigues. [[Gergely Kulcsár: Two thirds of them voted against the prison hospital!]] Jobbik keeps quiet about the benefits of such an investment for those living there. First of all, hundreds of people are offered job opportunities in building the hospital, and then others during the maintenance and operation of the hospital. The local hospital's equipment park could be billions richer, medical staff there could get extra income, doctors like nurses. Jobbik is deliberately distorting the reality of the deterioration of public security in a facility like this. This is not exponentially true, for on the contrary, the law enforcement forces there are being strengthened. On 8 October 2017, a local referendum was held in Berettyóújfalu, which was invalid, as 3021 of the 12 342 voters entitled to vote had cast a valid vote, i.e. less than half of the voters voted validly. [[Dr. István Apáti: It was politically valid.]] The result of the referendum clearly shows that the people of Berettyóújfalu did not want to prevent the construction of the prison hospital. I ask you and your party, Congressman, to respect and acknowledge the will of the people who live here, not to hinder or attack the creation of another job creation project. By the way, for the record, I would like to state that I have given my answer to the Member because of his attitude in 2011 solely because of my respect for Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-24-242	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lajos Kepli came forward to speak after the next agenda:, 25 years of inaction since the diversion of the Danube. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-24-243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Council of State, - there's no one else in the room right now. The protest against the Bős-Nagymaros water staircase became a symbol of the whole misguided change of regime, and as a result of Hungary's withdrawal from this interstate contract at the very last moment, Slovakia took the Danube to its territory 25 years ago, on 25 October 1992. He led the Danube's entire water flow into an operating channel, and for several months during the Island the water was just flowing, and until the bottom threshold was built, there was almost nothing the islanders could do to provide at least some water in the inter island Danube branches, the Mosoni-Duna. What happened in the 25 years since then? There was an international court decision in The Hague in 1997, exactly 20 years ago, which has not been implemented since. I think it is quite unprecedented in the history of international courts that, after 20 years, such a judgment cannot be carried out, it can be enforced, simply because governments cannot and do not want to agree with each other. Why would this agreement be important for Slovakia, why would it be urgent, when he enjoys the benefits of energy produced in the Bős-Nagymaros water escape, the Danube runs on his side, while virtually all kinds of environmental damage and other disadvantages fall on the Hungarian side. So it is practically only Hungarian diplomacy that is still the case at the moment. Governments came, governments went, various government commissioners and ministerial commissioners were appointed to solve the problem, but in fact, a meaningful step has not been taken in the last 25 years, and the Szigetköz suffers the same way from water scarcity. There have been various false solutions, absolutions, but there is no real progress, and the whole of Hungary suffers from the problems of water management. And it must also be said every time we speak on this subject that there is no proper, normal water management in Hungary, since then it has not been possible to overcome the taboo question of whether it is possible to expand, whether it is impossible to expand how normal water management and water retention-based farming can be conducted in a country. Because we could, and if we knew, then the country's water balance wouldn't be negative, the country wouldn't be drying out any more. In the middle of the Danube-Tisza, in the sandback, there is a serious problem, but also in the Nyíres, that the groundwater is disappearing from the wells, the water level is getting deeper and deeper. It is also a problem at the Danube, that the Danube Medre is going deeper and deeper, and due to the fact that the Danube is no longer carrying loads because of the water stairs built in the upper part of the Danube, shipping is also becoming more and more problematic, it is not possible to sail the Hungarian section of the Danube at all or only with restrictions. Since I've been here in Parliament since 2010, but a lot longer, 25 years ago, these problems have always been problems, and every year, it's become a bigger problem. Every time I say that this should be changed, we should finally introduce a water management in Hungary that focuses not only on the drainage of floods and waste water as quickly as possible, but also on water retention, as it would be very useful if we could irrigate not only 2% of our agricultural land during droughts. One of the keys to the flowering of Hungarian agriculture would be to build normal irrigation canal systems in Hungary. The fact that we can use only 5 percent of the water flow through us is also a very good indicator of the state of water management in Hungary. I am not talking about energy production right now, because hydropower cannot play a significant role in energy production in absolute terms in Hungary, but it could play a much bigger role than it currently is. And there are already well-developed technical solutions for this, but the government, whether political taboo or otherwise, does not want to understand it, does not want to apply it, but decides against its own well-conceived interests in these matters, even since Zoltán Illés has not been among the members of the government, who consciously and strongly prevented the installation of certain power-generating equipment at the Mosoni-Duna, the Dunakilite airlock. In summary, if there is no meaningful step, if the Hungarian foreign policy water diplomacy continues to act in such an impotent manner, and it is still not possible to deal with Slovakia on this issue, then Hungary is facing a very critical situation from a water management point of view, not only because of climate change but also because of its own helpless behaviour. I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. I hope I get a meaningful answer to my points. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-24-244	We'll find out right away. Mr. Secretary of State János Fónagy has the floor.
u2017-10-24-245	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I am pleased that you have raised this subject, because, if I remember correctly, a week ago, due to the time limit, I could not express the government's position. [[16.00]] As you said, on 23 October 1992 Czechoslovakia started the unilateral diversion of the Danube and the operation of the power plant in Bős. At the same time, Hungary applied unilaterally to the International Court of Justice of the Hague. The International Court issued its judgment in September 1997. This judgment of the International Court held in force the 1977 Interstate Treaty on the construction of the Bős-Nagymaros water escape system. The parties have been negotiating under modified frameworks since autumn 2014. Among the complex legal, political and technical issues of the 1977 Treaty and the dispute - ownership, shipping, electricity production - the rehabilitation of the inter-island-coached Danube section affected by the diversion was separated. The priority of the current negotiations is the rehabilitation of the upper Danube section, which requires Slovakia to deliver significantly more water into the common water space. It is appropriate to return to all other questions after the conclusion of the inter-island sub-Agreement. By January 2016, Hungarian and Slovak government holders fixed the main possible directions for inter-island-intersect rehabilitation. The primary objective of rehabilitation is to link the bilateral branch system, to create life like before diversion, and, and I would like to stress, to improve the conditions for flood protection. To this end, the Parties shall endeavour to establish a common Hungarian-Slovak nature conservation area in the affected region. As part of the rehabilitation, Slovakia would deliver more water into the common water space than it is now. After the parliamentary elections in Slovakia in March 2016, as you mentioned, the Slovak main negotiator was replaced, the negotiations continued in December 2016. Accordingly, the joint health check and modelling started only in the summer of this year. If both parties keep the pre-accepted work plan, it is expected that by the end of the second quarter of 2018, the results of the investigation will be available to support the rehabilitation of the area affected by the diversion, such as the political agreement on the new water sharing. The government continues to seek to provide the maximum additional water quantity necessary from an ecological point of view, but still manageable from a flood protection point of view, for the river sections affected by the diversion. We reject any rumors that Hungary plans or supports the construction of a water escape, hydroelectric power plant or any other significant natural transformation artifact in the Danube section between Szap and Szob. The construction of new objects is inevitable only in the artificially preserved inter-island section, which has already been significantly modified, because the current water supply system has been designed on a temporary basis for 22 years. The government's aim is to maintain a technically justified minimum level of intervention and to reduce as much as possible the natural damage caused by the illegal diversion of the Danube as a result of rehabilitation. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-10-24-246	Thank you. After the next agenda, Mr Gergely Farkas presented himself as a 21st-century party with the new challenges of the 21st-century - Part V. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-24-247	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, A few weeks ago, I began my series of speeches, with which Jobbik, by means of the 21st edition of Art. 21st century challenges I would like to present the answers of the century. Coming to the fifth part of my series, I would like to draw your attention to the fight against false news. Why is this important, and why do we need to address this issue? With Internet and social networking, XXI is increasingly spreading. The problem of false news among the latest challenges of the century. There is a phenomenon where some individuals or groups of interests deliberately create false news in order to achieve only the most clicks instead of communicating mass media and truth, or even demeaning, manipulating and polarising society. According to one study, these so-called bogus information went faster and further in the U.S. presidential campaign than before. We can therefore say that the importance of the fight against false news has been more emphasized after this event, the US presidential election. During this time, the 20 best running electoral false news generated a total of 8.7 million sharing reactions and comments on Facebook with nearly two billion users. The 20 most popular reliable news, on the other hand, triggered a total of 7.3 million reactions. The dissemination of false news is also facilitated by the prompt hearing of the information that underpins our earlier opinion, and it is easier to believe it, even without control. Unfortunately, the experience also shows that this phenomenon has now become a trend, and many consciously use it not only to reach a larger click number, but also to deceive people or earn money, since the revenues of advertisements placed on these news are being made by the creators of fake news. Dissemination of false news has now become an Internet tool for modern warfare, which is why many European countries anticipate and address the dangers of such disinformation campaigns at government level. In the Czech Republic, for example, a separate committee in the Ministry of the Interior analyses dangerous appearances. Jobbik believes that the spread of false news must be prevented, without, of course, prejudice to the freedom of speech and freedom of the press, with the involvement of public authorities and technical firms of this kind. I believe that, in fact, by taking legal action against false news, freedom of the press is being strengthened and society's misinformation is being reduced. Therefore, based on international examples, Jobbik initiates the establishment of an independent professional body to investigate and assess individual cases, thus ensuring the integrity of independence and freedom of expression. I think it's the 21st. In the 18th century, combating false news is not primarily a question of freedom of the press, but rather a question of cyber security. As such, it would be important to see at government level responsibility and need for action in cyber security to prevent governments and organised groups from spreading false information or manipulating debates on the social side. As I mentioned, there are many international examples of this new 21st century. How they deal with the challenge of the century at government level. The most striking example is the recently adopted regulation of the German coalition government, under which portal operators can receive a fine of up to EUR 5 million, forints l.5 billion if they do not remove illegal content and these false news in time. At the same time, according to some experts, there is a better model than German, for example, the Dutch, in which priority organisations do pre-screening and should, according to their judgement, remove something from, for example, the social dimension, indicating it to them. Ladies and gentlemen, We must all feel the danger of spreading false, false news and, in this context, the need to combat false news. The solution is obviously complex, but Jobbik is open to discussing it. Jobbik therefore places a strong emphasis on supporting high-quality and realistic journalism, reducing clique hunting and sensationalist content through legal frameworks, raising public awareness of false news and education in schools, prevention and conscious and reliable media use. I believe that these aspects should be the basis or at least the starting point for a government attitude that seeks to counter the spread of false news - and we intend to act. I trust that my fellow Members are partners in this, feeling the responsibility of this issue. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-24-248	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2017-10-24-249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Fidesz will wish to respond in writing to the question raised by the Member. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-24-250	Thank you very much for your answer, Secretary of State. István Szávay, notary asked to speak after the last agenda:. Is the Serbian government really appreciated, as the Serbian government treats the Hungarian community living in the country? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[16.10]]
u2017-10-24-251	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, At the beginning of October, Viktor Orbán shocked the Hungarians in the south by saying to the newspapers in Bucharest that Serbia was strengthened because it gave an exemplary autonomy to the Hungarians in Vojvodina. Péter Szijjártó added a few days later that the Hungarian government appreciates the way the Serbian government treats the Hungarian community living in the country.The southern Hungarians stand in front of both statements without understanding and disappointment. The Hungarian National Council, which you referred to as the exemplary achievement of the Hungarian autonomy in southern Hungary, has now become a legally and financially empty institution. Serbian budget resources couldn't even stand up to their own operation, let alone fund their programmes. According to Fidesz, in the midst of excellent interstate relations between Serbia and Hungary, the practice shows that the Hungarian government is paying more money into the budget of Belgrade than the Hungarian National Council receives as tax on the economic development programme which we have already supported and considered a good initiative. But the Serbian Government has not yet fulfilled its legal commitments to join the EU. During the accession negotiations between the EU and Serbia, Serbia committed in September 2015 to further develop and apply the legal framework for the protection of minorities. This would have led to the amendment of the Minority Rights Act by the second quarter of 2016 and thus, in particular, to the extension of rights in the field of ethnic name use, administration, use of mother tongue and employment. However, instead of adopting a law, this draft legislation is still before the European Council, and according to the Democratic Community of Hungarians in Vojvodina it is necessary to clarify and, in many cases, to amend it because it would not only expand existing rights but in many cases limit them. Some examples: according to the current draft, the VMDK believes that minority departments may cease to exist, there will still be no mention of nationality in the personal documents, or the use of national symbols will not increase. The draft law on national councils was not even adopted by the preparatory committee, while Serbia should apply its provisions from the first quarter of 2017. However, according to the analysis carried out by VMDK, the draft does not serve the interests of the southern Hungarians in its present form, since in many cases it is a step backwards even in relation to current conditions. It still does not provide adequate public support for national councils, and it also transforms the few powers of decision into a right of opinion which these councils had in the past. An institution of major importance to the national community, such as the board of directors or supervisory board of a school or newspaper, has so far been able to appoint a member of the national council, but according to the current draft, they would only have the power of opinion, which is a significant step backwards. The Serbian state is therefore not generous with the local Hungarians, which is demonstrated by the inability to apply in Hungarian to the Law Faculty of the University of Novi Sad. The Court of Appeal in Novi Sad is not even willing to hear the testimony of the young Hungarians in the south. I can only hope that the statements of the Hungarian Government quoted earlier do not dissuade the Hungarian Student Association of Vojvodina, which brought an action against the university. It is clear from the numbers that this narrowing of rights has a strong impact on young Hungarians in southern Hungary. Fewer and fewer people continue to study locally, while about 20 Hungarian students were admitted to law last year and the year before, this number fell to only 3 this year. Dear fellow Members, Jobbik has always spoken consistently and clearly about Serbia as well. We consider Hungarian-Serbian cooperation and EU accession to be important as strategic partners, but only on the condition that Serbia adopts, enforces and enforces the laws for the survival of Hungarians in the south. Jobbik continues to believe that Serbia should provide the southern Hungarians with all the rights and forms of autonomy which benefit the much smaller Serbian community in Kosovo. The Romanian and Ukrainian examples clearly show that the pre-confidence, the policy of unilateral Hungarian gestures, leads to nothing, and is even particularly harmful for the Hungarians from abroad. If we expect results from our neighbours, we must use the diplomatic means at our disposal. I ask you very much, Mr Secretary of State, to spare me and the South-Hungarians who listen to us from the boringly known Fidesz propaganda, the facebook activity of our President of Szolnok and the quota referendum, and to talk more about when the rights of the southern Hungarians and the creation of autonomy of the Kosovo type will be more important for you than the friendship of some former Serbian politicians from Chetnik. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-24-252	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2017-10-24-253	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Hungarian-Serbian relations have evolved at an accelerated pace in recent years, and the relationship between the two countries is characterised by close partnership. Our regular top-level contacts are planned for the fourth joint government meeting this year. We support Serbia's integration into the EU at both political and expert levels, in which Serbia has also made commitments in relation to the protection of minority rights. This is of particular importance for Hungary - in addition to economic and good neighbourly relations - for the future of Hungarians in Vojvodina and for Hungary's security. Economic cooperation with Serbia is currently the most important among the Western Balkan countries, and further development is a priority for both governments. Hungarian participation in Serbian economic projects will also benefit Hungarians in Vojvodina, and the Serbian party will cooperate positively to facilitate this. Last year, bilateral trade turnover was close to EUR 2 billion, with an additional 32 percent increase in the first seven months of this year and a 19 percent increase in Hungarian exports. OTP is now the seventh most important player in the Serbian banking market and MOL is the second most important factor. Common infrastructure improvements are also important for Hungarians in Vojvodina, here it is worth mentioning the opening of the two new border crossing points planned for 2018 at Bácsszentgyörgy-Rastina and Kübekháza-Rábe. Allow me to raise some specific matters. In Serbia, thanks to the 2009 National Councils Act, the directly elected Hungarian National Council has been the only Hungarian Council in the Carpathian Basin since 2010, which is the highest cultural autonomy of the Hungarian national community in Serbia. The Board shall have powers in the fields of education, culture, official language use and information. Unfortunately, other Hungarian minorities do not enjoy cultural autonomy in our region, alone in Vojvodina. The period of severe tensions between the two nations has been resolved within the framework of the historic reconciliation process. In addition to the historical common head of the Csugóg head of state on 26 June 2013, the preventive and subsequent acts, such as the declaration of the People's Assembly condemning events against the Hungarian civilian population in Vojvodina in 1944-45, adopted by the Serbian National Assembly on 21 June 2013, or the repeal of the 1945 decisions of the Serbian Government on the collective guilt of three Vojvodina settlements - Csúrog, Zsablya and Mozsor - by the Serbian Government on 30 October 2014. We are convinced that this reconciliation process goes beyond simple symbolism. [[16.20]] The decision of the EU Council to develop a specific minority action plan in the framework of EU accession negotiations by the end of 2015. The structure is also satisfied by the Hungarian Association of Vojvodina and the Hungarian National Council, as the issues of priority for Hungarians received a separate chapter. The Hungarian Association of Vojvodina also created economic conditions for the Hungarian minority's survival in the homeland, where the support of the Hungarian community's regional and economic programme of Vojvodina was HUF 50 billion. Thanks to its coalition agreement concluded in Belgrade on 14 August 2016 between the VMSZ and the Serbian Progressive Party, the programme of the VMSZ became part of the government programme. Elements of the Coalition Treaty, listed as examples: EU integration, Vojvodina situation, regional development, health, social... - ethnic minorities in the public sector. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Many of the elements of the Treaty have been implemented and are being implemented, so, Mr President, allow me to make the summation opinion that, yes, we value relations with Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-10-24-254	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 30 October 2017. I thank you all for your work, and the meeting is closed. [[The meeting ended at 4:21 p.m.]]
