u2017-04-10-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 14th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and István Szávay will be taking part in the meeting. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear Parliament, Today we must commemorate victims again: victims of terror. We were shocked to learn of further serious acts of terrorism in Sweden and Egypt. These attacks are not just against Europe, but against the whole Christian world. Every day, we can see that freedom of faith must be fought today. We share the pain of the people of Sweden and Egypt, and we wish the injured to be healed as soon as possible. I ask the National Assembly to express our condolences with silent standing and sacrifice to the memory of the victims. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the victims with a silent standing.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, Today we begin our work with speeches before the agenda, from 11:50 a.m. to 13:20 a.m. for questions, and from about 13:20 a.m. to 14:20 a.m. for instant questions and answers. Then we will continue our work with a political debate from approximately 14.20 minutes, and we will conclude the Parliament's meeting with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, First of all, Mr Lajos Kósa, Head of the Group, asked to speak before the agenda: Hungary must defend itself. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-10-1	Mr. President. Dear House, Indeed, last week, I can safely say that a terrorist wave has swept through Europe and its surroundings; let us not forget the bombing in the metro in St Petersburg, Stockholm, Egypt, and all of this clearly points out that the real problem is the migration crisis and the rampant wave of terror and violence that Europe is having a very difficult time dealing with, at all times, with this challenge. The more difficult it is to cope with, because when there is an open political struggle between the pro-migration force and the anti-migration force, the pro-migration party with György Soros at the forefront says that migration is good, it is not threatening us, it is an opportunity, we need to integrate millions of migrants, while an increasing number of those who say that this migration is unmanageable, it is washing Europe away, it is threatening our values, our identity, our security. And indeed, if we are watching the news now, we can see that what was, by the way, known to be sober, is that migrants arriving in Europe are calling for family reunification in their next move, and if you can believe the news, then in Germany alone more than a million people are preparing to re-establish their position at the address of family reunification, 250 000 people are in a position to initiate family reunification. According to the family model there, it means at least five people, which is more than the number of people who arrived illegally in Germany last year. So it seems that this process is not over, and we are threatened with unforeseen consequences if we do not do something here. Hungary will do its job more clearly, comply with the Schengen conventions, comply with the Dublin Protocols, halt the flow of migration flows in the South-West Balkans, and Hungary will, for its part, meet the requirement that we have all sworn to protect Hungary. The events that take place at the end of the week are understandable in light of this, as do not forget: the Soros György pro-György [[Lajos Korózs: Fidesz!]] organisations have organised a major movement in the capital, all of which are a little absurd, since we have neither closed nor are going to close any university. The Hungarian Government has no such intention, and the Higher Education Act does not allow that. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] There's no threat to school leave, and there's no law about that. There is no threat to freedom of education [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Yes, you can. You! Lajos Korózs: The Fidesz!]] That's not what the law says either. There's no threat to freedom of research, that's not what the law says. So it's clear to me that there had to be a different reason for this move, although there may have been people involved in it. [[Lajos Korózs: Everybody came up against you, huh?]] it wasn't clear to them. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] But those claims are absurd, because nothing threatens me, nothing is real; with this force it could also be shown that the sky does not change the color of the law on higher education to the red instead of the blue. This demonstration is successful, because the sky will not change, the Central European University will not close, there is school leave, there is educational freedom, there is also research freedom [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] So it's clear that it's about something else. It is about the migration issue, where György Soros and his organisations have a very clear position, if the Hungarian government's aspirations prevail, then the migration business will be destroyed. The migration business that we have seen in the case of young people in Bangladesh, the organisation funded by György Soros comes to the court, the organization funded by György Soros is the expert on the trial, the Honorary President of the organization funded by György Soros, and - not to be misunderstood - he has a job even at the György Soros University, from then on, imagine that the position of the George Soros organization was victorious, only the Hungarians and Hungary were paying for it, and Hungary is threatened by the fact that serious millions of young people in Bangladesh have to pay for it. Now, that's the migration business that needs to be put to an end, that's what has to stop, and that's why there's indignation, honourable Parliament. And we will protect Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-2	Thank you. State Secretary Csaba Dömötör will answer. I give you the floor.
u2017-04-10-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, I agree that one of the main questions for the coming period will be whether we can protect Hungary. We do not make it a secret when we say that we believe that the greatest risk in this area is indeed uncontrolled illegal immigration. I remember very well that here in the Parliament [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] and other than how many times the left has said, and in some cases Jobbik has said that there is no resettlement quota. By saying this, they deliberately and continuously deceived the Hungarian public. I say this because a few days ago the European Parliament adopted a resolution that continues to force resettlement programmes. It's a report. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Did Viktor Orbán vote?]] With the support of the left-wing parties sitting here, he went through with their support; therefore, with the support of the parties sitting here. [[11.10]] Several elements of this resolution are shocking and do not reflect the will of citizens at all. Let's see the details. The EP, the European Parliament, would extend the concept of refugees to economic immigrants. They would facilitate family reunions, facilitate resettlements, which would function as a permanent mechanism, so once again the quota is here, and this proposal has not ceased. The report also demands that detention be abolished and that the legal border lock be abolished. I would like to draw the House's attention to the fact that, according to the resolution, aid should be paid in the future, regardless of the security considerations; of course, it is not specified what this should be produced from. This report proves two things: on the one hand, Brussels will continue the failed policy so far and, on the other hand, the increase in pressure. It's another evidence of pressure, but it's not the only evidence. A large Western paper recently reported that, after blackmailing with EU funds, Hungary would now be blackmailed into EU membership in the field of immigration policy. This is scandalous and unacceptable. Hungary has not signed that it is subject to the will of others in everything. The resolution, the resolution I referred to in the European Parliament, as I said, was also voted by the representatives of the left-wing parties here. Tibor Szanyi and István Ujhelyi voted from MSZP, Péter Niedermüller and Csaba Molnár from DK and Benedek Jávor from LMP. It would be good to inform citizens, the public, why they voted for this. Because honourable left-wing Members, what you are doing here, is unfair to the Hungarian people. At home, they claim that there is no quota, and immigration is a fake problem, and in Brussels they vote in favour of the resolutions which ease immigration and resettlement and weaken the Hungarian measures so far, otherwise in full harmony with what the Hungarian legal protection organisations and activists, which fund from abroad, propose. If it were up to the left, the resettlement programmes would have been launched long ago and the budget would also have to provide serious amounts for aid. We don't think that's the way to be in solidarity. In view of all this, it is now very clear why opposition parties are drilling national consultations after the referendum. [[An intervention from the ranks of the MSZP: 'Cause it's bullshit! Lajos Korózs: Are you sending the data to a Russian server?]] sometimes with legal arguments, sometimes with political discrediting actions. For us, however, these attacks mean only one thing, and we will be able to force five times to enforce the Hungarians' will and the protection of borders. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-4	Thank you. Member Ms Ágnes Kunhalmi has applied for a speech before the next agenda: You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-04-10-5	[[On his clothes he wears a circular blue badge, in which he is signed by.#I stand with CEU. Heringes Anita also wears a circular blue badge on her dress, which is marked "I'm with CEU; #I stand with CEU. On Dr. László Varga's table, the back side of his laptop has an A/4-sized blue tablet with text:]] Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The power of a government is determined by what the people think of it. In 2010, when you were entrusted with government, you were supported by 2 million 700 thousand people. Four years later, in 2014, only 2 million people voted for you. Unfortunately, in the unjust and freakish electoral system you created, this still meant a significant majority to you. But even then, in 2014, more people voted for the left in Budapest than for any candidate of Fidesz in spring and autumn. We are here now in 2017, not quite a year before the elections, and I can feel more than ever how your support will run out. They're afraid for a reason. There is a reason why they are afraid of losing the election in 2018, because Fidesz is on the road to dredging and shrinking. You are now rejected not only by the masses who have been guilty of the politics of Orbán, but also by the Fidesz community of supporters on a principle basis; economists, world-famous climate scientists, KDNP members, right-wing university teachers speak out against you and step out of your ranks because they are quite simply ashamed of what they are doing. They just can't convince themselves of the meaning of what they're doing anymore. And that's where we get to the point, the meaningless being of Fidesz, the way Fidesz attacked his own people. It's not about Soros, dear Fidesz, it's not about Brussels, but it's not about the Soviets, or Putin in itself, it's about Hungary, which Fidesz consumes faster and faster. He is a wolf of Hungarians in the Fidesz system. Let's remember how the educator was instigated with the public health employee, the disabled pensioner with the regular pensioner, or even the university student with the high school student. [[Noise, uproar, interrogations from the ruling parties.]] Hungarians were instigated against Hungarians. Corvinus University, pure Hungarian university, had to be protected by the live chain of students, and since then all departments have been protected, but in Hungary all universities and all departments are under harsh political pressure. And for the first time in decades, the Hungarian Parliament has come to the point that they want to close a university by pure political decision by virtue of the law. [[Lajos Kósa: That's not true, Agnes. You're talking silly. Nobody wants to close any college. And anyone who says that isn't telling the truth.]] Whoever attacks this is attacking knowledge. Whoever attacks knowledge, who attacks Hungarian children, Lajos Kósa attacks their teachers and institutions, betrays his own people and his own country. I accuse you of conscious destruction of the Hungarian spirit and knowledge, for which there is a minimum ban on life imprisonment. [[Uproar, interrogation from the pro-government benches.]] Because knowledge isn't a right- or left-wing question, it's kind of fidesz. Knowledge is not a party political category. [[Lajos Kósa: Dr. Kunhalmi. Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Knowledge is a simple matter of common sense, and as I see it, you must have lost your senses. [[Interviews from the ranks of the age groups, including: Have you looked in the mirror?]] And there's something to be afraid of, my dear fidess. They can hold on, they can shake for power, they'll do anything for the next year because they're afraid of justice. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the age party, including: Are you afraid of the service of justice?]] When it is formed and people vote for the new Botka government in 2018 [[Expansion, uproar, intervention from the pro-age benches, including Lajos Kósa: And I hope you will be the Minister of Higher Education. Deficiencies in pro-age benches]] then not only will we abolish the shameful law against CEU and civilians, eliminating the system of national cooperation, but you will also be familiar with the concept of equality before the law, dear Fidesz. [[Noise, interruptions from the pro-government benches.]] And finally, in the words of Endre Ady, you are worthless to both Mr and Hungarian, and I would add that you are also a politician. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause and an intervention from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right! - Uproar, interrogation from the pro-government benches. - In the chair rows of the MSZP, Dezső Gyűséges, Anita Heringes, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Zoltán Gőgös, Imre Horváth and Lajos Korózs stand up in a row with a table of A/4 size, which is read together with a red colour on the table, and a sign of A/4 size is held, on which there is the inscription László Kács, László Teleki, Sándor Szabó and dr. István Józsa, on a blue basis, István Tukacs, sitting on a table of size A/4.]]
u2017-04-10-6	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Please sit down and take your seats. I find that the representatives of the MSZP have broken the rules of the illustration. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliamentary Act 38/A. According to Article 5 of the Act, the application for an illustration should have been indicated in advance before the meeting of the House Committee. [[Noise.]] I ask Members to continue to ensure order in Parliament. I will, of course, inform the Speaker of the situation. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Imre Vejkey, the KDNP, has now applied for a speech before the agenda... [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm confused. To answer, I do not know if the Secretary of State wishes... (Signation:) Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer. Thank you.
u2017-04-10-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We can see that the fullness of the MSZP fraction could not be brought in for this demonstration, even the faction leader was not here when this was carried out. Maybe a third of the faction has been convinced of this operation here. [[Noise, fo.lya, math citations from the lines of the MSZP.]] You know, I don't know what authority this Hungarian Socialist Party has on this matter or who it has behind it, you know, honourable Member and honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen in the Socialist Group, when you can only go out for this demonstration [[There are constant interruptions from the lines of the MSZP.]] [[There are constant interruptions from the lines of the MSZP.]] If they removed all the MSZP badges, all the party badges, party symbols from themselves, and only then could they sneak up on protesters (constant intervention from the lines of the MSZP). ), if you cannot create any kind of socialist symbol, I think it is an indication that it is possible, even certain, that the demonstrators disagree with one or another decision of the government, but that they want to keep themselves as far away from the Hungarian Socialist Party, it is also certain, since all socialists have been asked not to bring any MSZP symbols with them, so for the demonstrators too, the MSZP seems to be insufferable. [[Uproar, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] They may disagree with the government, but the MSZP support is unsuitable to them. In this situation, I would not be as confident as the congresswoman was. We can also remember how events could be held in public areas in 2006 and how they could be held in 2017. Because in 2006 at a announced commemoration during the event, a peaceful demonstration was conducted during your administration, and then rubber bullets were found, and many of us experienced it there. the smell of tear gas, the effect of tear gas on one's body, or how it begins to weep at a peaceful pre-arranged memorial. [[11.20]] Compared to this, in 2017, if a person organises a demonstration against the government, which is likely to end after a while, and after that end, someone, whether peacefully or not, sometimes even pressuring the police to continue the demonstration, the police will try to keep it under control with dignity, even though the duration of the event has been exceeded. In Hungary, it can now be shown in this way. This could not be said for the socialist period. [[Zoltán Grimlock, you must be hiding behind the police! Agnes Kunhalmi: You are cowards!]] If you want to go back to the time when a horse-riding attack is conducted on peaceful memorials, you should choose the Hungarian Socialist Party and its attitude to democracy. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You also picked up the fence!]] But if you want to live in a country where an unscheduled part of a demonstration can be conducted in a normal way, [[Dr. László Varga: Don't talk about democracy. You built a dictatorship! Anita Bering: Your children will be ashamed of you!]] and no one should be afraid of the police, because the police protect citizens, then choose the Fidesz-KDNP concept of democracy, honourable Member, because that is the real difference between the perception of democracy in one camp and the other. You speak here every day in Parliament and elsewhere, shouting the end of democracy, while you were the ones who could not guarantee the most fundamental democratic right, the right of assembly in Hungary, but used the police for political purposes. [[Dr. László Varga: Tell me the bullshit!]] But I would also like to reassure you, Congresswoman, if you would enroll in the Central European University to have a student card sticker there, you can continue to do so in the coming years, as this amendment does not affect the Central European University in any way. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Now you're going to close it! You're making laws that are good for you.]] You said a very important thing, so the day before April 11th, I think it is a very important sentence to mention equality before the law. Because I think this may be the most important message of the bill that Parliament has accepted that everyone is equal before the law. The socialist era ended when György Soros wrote a letter to the Minister and Prime Minister of the Government of MSZP-SZDSZ, and from then on the codificators will start and include the text of the law that George Soros ordered from them. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You're Putin's pen teller! They closed the university in St. Petersburg. They're doing the same thing.]] The legislation on order is over, honourable Member. Because any other person would have written to Bálint Magyar about Hungary or elsewhere, on the one hand he would not have been able to thank for the adoption of lex CEU, and on the other hand Bálint Magyar would not have put the entire government apparatus in the service of this one man's request. [[Dr. László Varga: I'm slaughtering a university, you should be proud of yourself.]] We ask only everyone, from all universities operating in Hungary, whether it is Hungarian, foreign, state or non-state, or training abroad, to comply with the laws. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: You attack Hungarian universities and university teachers. You're traitors! That's the thing. Zoltán Grimlock: That's right, exactly, you're extremists, you have to protect the country from you!]] I think that's the best statement anyone can rest on. There's nothing else you need but to comply with the law. Those who obey the law here have nothing to fear in Hungary, so neither do these universities. And his sentences are absolutely ridiculous that all departments of all universities in Hungary are under political pressure. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: It's true!]] I think that's what the department heads themselves would ask for the most. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Grimlock: The country must be protected from you!]]
u2017-04-10-8	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Imre Vejkey, on behalf of the KDNP, spoke before the next agenda: the triumvirate of Soros-Strasbourg-Brussels versus the freedom struggle of Hungary. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-10-9	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Before I get to my topic before the agenda, allow me, on behalf of the Christian Democrats, to bow down and express my sympathy to the families of 43 victims of the attack on the Coptic Christian brothers in Egypt on Sunday, during the Holy Mass, and to the injured, I wish them a speedy recovery. Ladies and Gentlemen, Terror and fear everywhere. Although in the 2016 US presidential elections, Mrs Clinton and the Democratic Party and Soros & Co. were defeated, the war is not over yet, and even the cosmopolitan losers have even more determined and aggressively attacked national and Christian values. They're the ones who say that Trump's victory caused an emergency in the United States. They are the ones who say that since 20 January 2017, or since Trump's presidential inauguration, immigrants, Muslims, Arabs, blacks and members of the LGBTI community have been threatened in the United States. They're the ones who say we need to take action against Trump's Republican government. They're the ones who pay Trump to fail as soon as possible. They are those who, in the spirit of tolerance and liberal humanism, do not shy away from wanting Trump hanged publicly, so to create so to speak American democracy. Ladies and Gentlemen, The last few months have been all about us. Nothing more than the cosmopolitan triumvirate with Soros-Strasbourg-Brussels put our country under increasing pressure. More and more pressure to force migrants to accept us. They should know that on 5 April 2017, the Triumvirate had a dairy party in Strasbourg, celebrating the birth of the latest immigration document last Wednesday. They celebrated because this document also extends the concept of refugees to economic migrants, making it easier for migrants to reunite their families, thereby explicitly stimulating migration to Europe. They celebrated because the position of the Triumvirate was victorious, that is, even the western states of the EU have focused on reducing the influx of immigrants rather than giving the alien invasion a green light, so the adopted document demands this immediate change. Ladies and Gentlemen, What else is this than an open attack on indigenous peoples and nations here in Europe, as well as a Christian civilization, which is the roots of Europe, which we reject? We know you're well organized, but trust me, we're well organized. We protect sovereign Hungary and its inhabitants, so we go our own way. And our freedom fights have always been about not making decisions for us. That's why we're fighting our freedom fight against you now. That is why, and so that energy prices, taxes, regulation of higher education, support for job creation, or who we can live with in our own country, we can decide for ourselves. We won the first battle, but you won't rest. What else do they want in their liberal madness? Don't you realize that because of your policies, Islam is spreading like wildfire in the European Union, which directs its total ideology against Christian culture? In fact, we are beginning to think that migrants are no longer pretending to want to fit into European society, but are immediately taking up space and creating a parallel society according to their laws, because they do not share our values? Ladies and Gentlemen, So while we still want to stop illegal migration, spatial reservation, parallel societies, the formation of no-go zones, this is exactly what the Soros formations are organizing. And if the Soros formations fail in the fight with us, they will sue Hungary behind the skirts of Strasbourg and Brussels. Ladies and Gentlemen, We have now come to the conclusion that not only are the smugglers but the Triumvirate also wants to make money in the business of the country. We have to stop this! We must stop him, even if we are threatened and blackmailed. We have to stop it, because they are trying to pay the Hungarian taxpayers' money to earn their way through lawyers' fees, because they can earn more than 40 billion by counting 15,000 migrants, based on the judgment of their accomplices in Strasbourg. But guess what? Soros & Co. is knocking on the door of the Triumvirate, so that EU Member States can borrow money to pay the costs of the migrant invasion, to finance the integration of migrants, that is, Member States should be indebted to the financial world. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is yet another speech on the agenda. Let us fight because it is up to us whether we will have a future, whether we will have a church in the future, where we can go to pray, or if a mosque is in place. Let us dare to be courageous and stand up for Hungarian and Christian values! Let us not forget Goethe's words:. The most we can give our children is roots and wings, and let us not forget that the triumvirates are doomed to fail even at birth. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-10	Ladies and gentlemen, Bence Rétvári indicated that he wished to respond on behalf of the government. You have the floor.
u2017-04-10-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think that the third time in recent years we can think of our brothers with our sympathy, because of the series of attacks against them, which also appeared in the Hungarian news, was the first on 15 February 2015, when we saw videos on the Internet about 20 Egyptian Copts and the brutal decapitation of an African Christian. [[11.30]] A year later, in 2016, they exploded during the Holy Mass at St. Peter's Church. Here, too, there were countless victims and countless injured, two of whom were cared for here at the Honvéd Hospital in the framework of Hungary's humanitarian offer. They arrived in Hungary by air on 7 February 2017 and received treatment here. And the third is the terrible explosion that has happened again. It's not a coincidence, it's not a coincidence. Flower Sunday is the greatest Christian holiday, the last Sunday before Easter, when we remember Jesus'coming to Jerusalem, we celebrate it. Then, when an even greater crowd appears, the ceremony is even more solemn, the Mass is even greater, and it was then that they exploded on purpose. It also has symbolic power, obviously the assassination of Christendom, and apparently they tried to make as many sacrifices as possible. That's why this assassination was planned for this time of year. We deeply sympathize with them. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán sent a telegram of condolence to both the head of state, President Sisi and the head of the Coptic Church, and we once again offered it, as we helped the wounded, and here in Hungary, we nursed them in the best possible conditions, as we do now. After the previous bombing, we also shared a candle ignition with the head of the Hungarian Kopt Orthodox Church in the Basilica, where Cardinal Péter Erdő participated. I think it was important to express compassion now. In the coming weeks, April 25-27, Gabriel Anba, the Coptic Bishop of Austria, will visit Hungary; I think we can talk to him about these series. At the same time, Hungary intends to support persecuted Christians both in Egypt and elsewhere in every way, and the scholarship programme will soon be opened for the Egyptians, with which persecuted Christian groups can study in Hungary, their students and young people. We hope that they can live with it, including from Egypt. It was also an important decision by the government when it decided to grant HUF 120 million to young people and older people in Iraq and the region for education in 2016. As early as 2017, the government decided to help restore the city of Telskuf in Iraq to a level that would allow at least 1300 people and their families to return to their homeland. When the representative of the Syrian Church and the Syrian Orthodox Church was here, at the request of both the Catholic and the Orthodox Patriarch, Hungary will assist the local humanitarian aid by EUR 1 million. Moreover, Hungary has also provided support for humanitarian aid to people in the refugee camps in Lebanon. We also provide pharmaceutical support to secure the medical supplies of St. Joseph's Hospital for six months. Thus, we strive to help the Christians living there with both health, education, humanitarian and urban reconstruction support. In addition to empathizing with them, praying with them, I think this is also a tangible help. On the other subject, mentioned by the honourable Member, allow me to read a text: I have received credible reports that in recent years the US mission has actively intervened in internal politics and is shaping its media environment and civil society, often giving preference to groups of political convictions. This is not a quote from a Hungarian politician, although it is really about the Soros Empire, but a quote from Senator Mike Lee, a member of the US Upper House, who expressed concern about how they flow to Europe, to certain countries, here he was talking specifically about Macedonia, American money through the Open Society Foundation of George Soros. But just like Christopher Smith, New Jersey Congressman [[To Agnes Kunhalmi:]] , who is now being laughed at by a woman here and the name MSZP on the statements of the US Members, well, she has also written a letter, raising similar problems for the US Ambassador, how is it possible that Soros' projects can be supported with American taxpayers' money. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, These are not Hungarian statements, not Fidesz-KDNP statements, not arguments there, but indeed Reformed legislators in Washington ask certain government officials the same question as the Member said. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-10-12	Thank you. Erzsébet Schmuck, on behalf of the LMP faction, asked for a speech before the next agenda. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-04-10-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Under the government of Viktor Orbán, as many people have never gone out on the streets as they did yesterday. The 70,000 to 80,000 crowds went out on the street to protest against the insane constitutional violation of the CEU and the civil law presented, but who was at the demonstration saw and knew that this was more than a stand-up for CEU and civilians. People told the government that what he was doing and how he was doing was enough. The government beat the lex CEU through Parliament in two days with a record speed, a dictatorship, without knowing what was being prepared against one of the most prestigious higher education institutions in Hungary. Shortly thereafter, a draft law on the stigmatisation of NGOs supported from abroad was published, opening up a new front for society by the government. And Szilárd Németh has been spouting in government media ever since that we need to know who the operatives are. I want you to tell him to be ashamed of yourself. In recent years, the government has made it financially impossible, killed independent NGOs, and now it's kicking and branding them. He says they're agent organizations. That's a shame. The Act on the Killing of CEU, dealing with civilians who do not like the government, as well as the silence of government critical press, is about the same thing: the elimination of democracy. The government has been systematically eliminating autonomy for years. It eliminates, bans, silences anything it considers dangerous to its own power. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Dictatorium.]] Another brutal attack on society's autonomous spheres sends one message: no institution or organization operating independently of the government can feel safe. The stigma of lex CEU and civilians goes beyond itself. Yesterday it's a newspaper, today it's a university, tomorrow it's civil society. Then who's next? Ladies and gentlemen, This government is the government of destruction. It's not building, it's destroying. It doesn't create calm, it creates unrest. Instead of stability, uncertainty. Instead of solving problems, it creates new problems, opens new fronts. Obsessive enemy search and top-notch government propaganda are called steering. The outrageous thing is that the government that refers to the will of the people is constantly ignoring the will of the people. As he conducts appearance consultations, he ignores people's opinions and tweaks all attempts to ask the people. A tight political elite is trying to tell us what's good for people. Not only do they disregard the declared will of protesters on the streets, but they also prevent people from expressing their views on important issues concerning the country's future. Such a question of fate, honourable Members, is Paks II, which Viktor Orbán said was the best business of the century. On the other hand, LMP claims that this is the worst deal of the century. It is unacceptable both politically and economically and unacceptable in terms of energy policy. Paks II will increase Russian dependence, risk the sovereignty of the country, put unbearable financial burdens on the shoulders of the future generation, and drive the country's energy policy into a forced course. Not to mention the safety and environmental risks. We think we should ask people about this in a referendum. The LMP launched a referendum on the Paks enlargement at the end of February, but so far the election committee has rejected all our questions. We can see that Fidesz has built a system in which only the issues that the government wants can have a referendum. Therefore, we are submitting a constitutional amendment that would make it compulsory to issue a referendum in the event of such a particular investment. This would restore the referendum to the people again and would make it impossible for them to decide such important matters behind the back of the Hungarian people without asking them. If the CEU closes, if civil law passes, and the government doesn't give the green light to the Paks referendum, the government openly acknowledges that the will of the people doesn't matter. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy and several representatives of the MSZP applaud.]] [[11.40]]
u2017-04-10-14	Thank you. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-04-10-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You've touched on several topics, let me react. In the matter of the university, I would like to tell you that, as much as the opposition claims, the government does not intend to close the university. [[Dr. István Józsa: You're lying! Lajos Korózs: That's not true!]] No one wants to restrict school leave. What the government wants is a clear and transparent relationship, following the Czech model, among other things, where foreign universities are linked to interstate contracts. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It may be enough for Hungarian Bálint to send a one-page flypaper at a colonial pace that had orders on it, but the government will insist that no one is above the law, but perhaps more importantly, the government is open to negotiations on the university with the United States. In other cases, the trial trip brought the results. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: They won't talk to you! They look down on you both in the East and the West!]] May I ask you, Congresswoman, not to yell? ! I listened to you when you spoke. As far as the bill submitted last week is concerned, there is transparency. The government wants all Hungarian citizens to have a clear picture of what organisations are supported from abroad. [[Dr. László Kács: Why didn't you go out yesterday and then convince them to know wrong?]] By the way, every foreign state has a right to fight foreign influence attempts. If you have looked at the US presidential campaign, there are also heated debates on this issue, and this bill has also been reviewed by the prepists. You know very well that there has been a law in force in the United States since the 1930s that requires so-called foreign agents to register themselves. As for the Paks expansion: Paks expansion is a guarantee of cheap electricity. You refer to all kinds of support schemes, including in Germany, but you keep from voters the fact that in Germany there is much more to be paid for the price of electricity. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: They have what! Because people are richer there, and they're poor here!]] And you never tell me how you want to make that difference, how you want to make those costs. In the case of the referendum, I would like to tell you that if there is social support and the law allows it, there will be a referendum, if there is no social support and the law does not allow it, and there will be no. The government will act accordingly. As for yesterday's demonstrations, we live in a free country, Hungary's democracy, where everyone can express their views. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: That's why you close newspapers!]] I would also like to say to you that, unlike 2006 it is possible today in Hungary to indicate that police officers are keeping order and not shooting at the crowd, as in the case of left-wing governments. It may also be mentioned in Parliament [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in your time, it has not been possible, because Parliament has been surrounded by cordons. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Stop it!]] So you can hang a flag out of Parliament whenever you want, because it can be protested. The only exception to this may be Szeged, where they handcuffed the citizen protesting the Seviép scandal, who would have demanded an investigation. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Overall, let me tell you that Hungarian democracy is strong, there is no social group that cannot express its opinion, even under the windows of the Parliament. Perhaps you have noticed that - I'll tell you again - there are no cordons, as in 2006. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] Hungarian democracy is strong despite the fact that the left tries to counterbalance its own difficult situation with unprecedented aggressiveness. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: There's something to be afraid of!]] From the way Congresswoman Kunhalmi is shouting now, this is very clear. It is also apparent that we are facing a busy election year, where all the foreign and domestic players on the left are lining up against the government, and even one or two billionaires are going to join this party. Another reason to defend the results so far and to defend Hungary's independence. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-16	Thank you. István Szávay, on behalf of Jobbik, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. The Hungarian higher education institutions and civil society organisations from abroad are at risk with the title of irresponsible Fidesz communication. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-10-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The hysteria that has taken place in Hungary over the past few weeks, the so-called reform of higher education or the amendment concerning higher education, the new Fidesz manifestation of lex CEU and civil society organisations in Hungarian, both of which are very serious irresponsible in many ways, but I would like to draw your attention now to the irresponsibleness that can set a precedent for action on foreign Hungarian higher education and foreign Hungarian civil society organisations. In advance, let me very quickly deny the false arguments that you will make about the fact that the legal situation is different for Hungarian higher education institutions across the border. When you are conducting a campaign against an institution in Hungary, whose main reason and main point is that this institution is financed from abroad, it does not matter what the legal situation of this institution is, you are not interested in this institution's legal place, but you wanted to create a political hysteria in this matter. Believe me, if your Romanian friends, as they say, want to deal with this issue, then they too will be able to create hysteria with reference to the Hungarian law. By the way, this was done by former Prime Minister Victor Ponta, a great friend of the Hungarian Socialist Party - who had recently spoken at your Congress - when he spoke on Facebook about the fact that this law is very good in Hungary, we should also do it in Romania so that Hungarian higher education institutions financed from abroad can be combated. The same is the case with civil society organisations, since you are talking about nothing else in a completely irresponsible and dilettant way except that the problem is that a civil society organisation is financed from abroad without making any distinction between these organisations. They're talking about political influence. Dear fellow Members, There are many Hungarian NGOs operating across borders that want to influence politics, in order to change the national state logic of the neighbouring countries, many Hungarian NGOs want to influence politics in order to gain national rights in the field of mother tongue or education. Are these NGOs funded from abroad? Yes, my fellow Members, these civil society organisations are largely financed by Hungary, a perfectly appropriate one, and, from our point of view, by a legitimate goal. It is only here that we do not have to look at our points of view, but that you give these tips and ideas to the Hungarian anti-Hungarian forces of the neighbouring countries, for example, to take action against the organisations there, such as the Szekler National Council, to say the biggest thing, which is the organisation that wants to influence politics, because it is fighting for self-determination for the indigenous Hungarian national community, and the Szekler National Council is hurting the authorities in many ways. Here's the Civil Society Act, and at least you've had a five-party consultation on this, unlike the CEU law, but you don't know what the point was. We have gone, we have made our opinion clear, we have made a number of professional proposals and objections to this bill, after which Congressman Gulyás came out of the conciliation, did not answer one of our points, but only one argument was that George Soros had set foot in Jobbik. Instead of answering those questions... - and I would like to make it very clear here, we agree with you that there should be as transparent and public information as possible if a civil society organisation is used by political forces, on the basis of some kind of interests. But let's not just do this from abroad, just the way you want us to do it. Hungarian political life can be influenced not only from abroad. If you wanted this system to be completely transparent, we would be partners in it, but we want real transparency, and not you, who only want to look at funding from abroad, while the biggest NGO that affects politics in Hungary today is the Civil Alliance Forum, the CÖF, which, to this day, is not known how much money Gábor Vona and Ferenc Gyurcsány have posted in the country, and a clown that looks like a homeless transvestite. These posters were made out of hundreds of millions of forints. None of these posters were accounted for. Oh, and before you start snooping, Mr. Secretary of State, Jobbik will account for the last penny of his poster campaign, as we are on the side of transparency. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You don't even know how much it costs!]] And you're actually just looking for enemies and making them. For example, national minority organisations should be excluded from this proposal, and it should be examined whether it is not a bad precedent to leave in it organisations engaged in sport and religious activities. If national minority organisations are classified as an agency, they provide a precedent for taking action against Hungarian organisations in neighbouring countries. If we put these two stories side by side, what we see is that you don't really want to talk about these issues. If we look at these two stories, the only thing missing now is the Yugoslav frogs. Jobbik, unlike you, wants to address the real problems of the country, we want a dialogue on the real problems affecting higher education and the civil sector. You should do the same, not seek enemies and hysterize Hungarian public life. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[11.50]]
u2017-04-10-18	State Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2017-04-10-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Allow me to briefly explain why Jobbik's argument is based on a completely wrong basis. We see that they are in an extremely difficult situation, because they have to face themselves again. Let's just say they've had a routine in the last two years, but even your boldest supporters didn't think that in 2014, when they voted for you, you'd be protecting George Soros here in Parliament's horseshoe. [[Dóra Dúró: We don't do that!]] and they make up all the arguments, which are somewhat national with some distortion, but with national arguments to protect György Soros [[István Szávay intervenes.]] Dear Member, iron circles of wood. I think the 2014 Jobbik faction would agree with me on this, and the 17 is no longer certain. Why is what you are saying based entirely on untruths, honourable Member? What is the difference between Hungarian-language universities in Transylvania and the Soros University? There are two main types of universities in Transylvania or across the border or anywhere. One is when a Hungarian university takes the training that it takes here, in Hungary, across the border. This is also happening within the European Union, on the one hand, and on the other, in full compliance with the amendment of the law on higher education that we are talking about. It is not appropriate for Hungarian universities who are not training in Hungary to pursue a Hungarian degree abroad. But it's not like that. Here, a dozen and a half universities, which are truly active in Hungary, are transferring training. So there is also training in Hungary, and there is training in Transylvania or in the Highlands. The second is when a foundation is set up under the national law of a given state, such as Romania or Slovakia, and that foundation establishes, say, the University of Sapientia or the University of János Selye, or in church reservations, in a similar way, say, the Roman Catholic College in Gyulafehérvár. But none of these versions are similar to the Soros University, which issues American degrees in Hungary without issuing diplomas, Hungarians, Americans or anything in America. [[Dóra Dúró: This will affect the Romanians very much. Intercoms from Jobbik's benches.]] ; it's only here that he gives an American degree, and even if someone misses a little training, he's giving out two degrees. So there is no factual basis for what you say, and what you do scare Hungarians across the border with, there is no, honourable Member, only because you invented it with a bitter heart... - perhaps even Lajos Simicska was involved in the reasoning technique, how to figure out something that could be used to set up a set of arguments here. But it has nothing to do with reality. It has nothing to do with Soros University. [[György Szilágyi repeatedly intervenes.]] It has nothing to do with the model Hungary does not consider compatible with the law. The second question is the question of civil society organisations. Honourable Congressman, What's on page 46 of Jobbik's program? I will help you: the same thing that János Volner said in live language, in 2013 and again. Literally that you are initiating the declaration of international law enforcement and similar organisations as agent organisations. What you have opposed here in Parliament in the last five minutes, you have written in your election program. [[Dóra Dúró: Bence, stop lying! István Szávay: You're lying! Interviews, loud noise in the benches of Jobbik.]] Honourable Congressman, It is quite steep that they are also going against their own electoral programme on this issue with their own previous policies, their own previous electoral programmes. [[Noise, interruptions in the benches of Jobbik: This is what you do!]] And why, why are they doing this? Because, for the only reason that they're going to comply with Lajos Simicska, they're going to have a strong opposition party. [[There's a lot of noise, yells in the benches of Jobbik.]] Because you, not you, but your party president, took the soul of the Jobbik and gave it to Lajos Simicska. How much he did it for, we don't know. [[György Sziâlágyi: You never had a soul!]] But why did you give it to him? He probably gave it to her, and Lajos Simicska bought it because he's a businessman, and he wants to buy the cheapest. The Jobbiks were probably the cheapest for Lajos Simicska, the other parties would have been more expensive. [[György Szilágyi: Long live liberalism! István Szávay: You should know!]] Gábor Vona offered Lajos Simicska Jobbik the cheapest. [[István Szávay: You were expensive too!]] He took it, took it, and continues to treat it as his own party. We read in the papers that all my sympathy for Jobbik - from Lajos Simicska - could be supplemented by one sentence: all my sympathy and all my posters are Jobbik's. [[Dóra Dúró intervenes.]] 'Cause from the moment you let them put the Jobbik logo in the upper left or right corner of the anti-government Simicska posters, you'll be able to name this giant billboard campaign [[Dora Doro Doro, Jesus Christ.]] Although you probably didn't make it up. And that's how you order these posters. [[István Szávay: Talk about the posters of CÖF!]] According to their own party director, they only looked at the number of posters and never looked at the price, well, honourable Member, what if you were in Hungary on government, if you only looked at how many posters you buy, how much is irrelevant. [[György Szilágyi: You talked a lot about CÖF! Martin Gyöngyösi: You're lying again, Bence!]] We'll take out so many loans, there'll be someone to pay for us. Save Hungary from such decisions many, many millions of Hungarian voters to have a party with a persistent oligarch who gets used to never seeing the price of anything, at most selling his soul. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. György Szilágyi: Long live Christian morality! Your questions aren't true either.]]
u2017-04-10-20	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr István Tiba to present the list of speeches after the agenda.
u2017-04-10-21	Dear Parliament, Today Tibor Bana, Jobbik; György László Lukács, Jobbik; Attila Tilki, Fidesz; Tamás Turgyán, Armenian ethnic advocate; Csaba Gyüre, Jobbik; Márton Gyöngyösi, Jobbik.
u2017-04-10-22	Dear Parliament, Now, at 11:55 p.m., we will begin to discuss questions and immediate questions. Ladies and gentlemen, Sándor Szabó, representative of MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development: will they also receive additional funding for local public transport? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-10-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm guessing Secretary of State will answer. [[Dr. János Fónagy nodds.]] Dear Secretary of State, The day-to-day provision of public transport services for rural settlements, especially larger cities, I think that one of the key prerequisites for every viable city and the European Union's expectations. However, the elimination of normative aid and the continuous reduction of public compensation put local authorities on the verge of maintaining public transport. In addition, every settlement in this year had to solve the wage increase of around 6-16 percent for bus drivers and, due to the statutory obligation, the minimum wage increase for other workers, for which the municipalities did not receive state aid. These days, on behalf of five major cities, the head of the County City Association, which still maintain a self-owned transport company, such as Szeged, Miskolc, Debrecen, Pécs and Kaposvár, I sent a letter to the Prime Minister asking whether it is state aid for wage increases, or whether it is the extra financing of operating expenses, the municipalities that maintain municipal service companies, whether it is county-righted cities or Budapest, to be considered, since maintaining public transport is a common interest and common value for all of us. There is another thing: professional and other news constantly tells you that the government plans to centralise local public transport - which is now a municipal task - that is, the state would take over the task from the municipalities in the future. For this reason, I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether, in addition to the BKV, the five major cities concerned can expect the same treatment in the financing of local public transport. Does Debrecen, Szeged, Miskolc, Pécs, Kaposvár also receive additional public transport support to carry out these tasks, and does the government plan to take over the local public transport tasks of local authorities? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2017-04-10-24	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2017-04-10-25	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, At all times, the financing of local transport depends on ownership, the provision of tasks as defined by the municipal law and budgetary support. Each year, the budgetary law in force provides for support for local transport in line with the principles of transport, environmental and economic efficiency. The provision and operation of local public transport in the capital, as a mandatory task under the municipal law, has been separate for years from the support systems of the other municipalities, for which the provision of local public transport under legal provisions is a voluntary task. Thus, it is up to the local government to decide whether to maintain it and to take care of it itself. The aid envelope for local transport by municipal authorities has increased compared to previous years. In 2016, 71 candidate municipalities received budget support, of which 22 county-righted cities and 49 other settlements. [[12.00]] Debrecen's budget support was some 410 million, nearly 324 million for Szeged, 480 million for Miskolc, 136 million for Pécs and 25 million forints for Kaposvár. The aid scheme will be maintained under unchanged conditions in 2017, the principle being that the local government finances local transport from its own resources and from budgetary support. Indeed, the possibility has been raised earlier that, where the local government is unable to do so, they will be given the opportunity to pass on this task and the State will assume this task from them, but this is a matter of future consideration and possible decision. Thank you for your attention, Congressman. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-26	Thank you. Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy: "Where is the help, when can they get a decent wage in local government offices and institutions? It's an address. To answer this question, the Prime Minister has appointed Minister of the Interior Sándor Pintér, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Minister Tibor Pogácsás will answer the question.
u2017-04-10-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, The increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage in November 2016 is an important and long-awaited step, but the government will pass on the additional expenditure to the municipalities, since the amendment of the operating grants of the central budget was not initiated in parallel with the wage agreement. However, this is an almost insufferable burden for individual municipalities and, therefore, central assistance would be needed in order to ensure the stability of farming. Depending on the number of inhabitants, we are talking about a number of unexpected extra expenditures of ten million, which the local authorities did not have a chance to prepare for, and they were right to hope that the government would provide them with additional resources, but it did not. Even though many municipalities have turned to the Ministry for help, the Ministry of National Economy, they have not even received an answer. This is certainly not surprising, since it is commonplace in government communication. In the same silence, the pro-government representatives rejected my proposal for a resolution on this subject, even though according to a recent report published by the Ministry of National Economy, there was a significant surplus of public finances already in the first two months of the year, so obviously there would be funding to help municipalities. Or maybe it's just a tricky fairy tale, colorful propaganda for the ministry briefing? At the same time as my question was presented at a municipal forum, a meeting of mayors, I will quote what was said there as examples: there was a village with a budget of 300 million, with a population of 2,900 people, where it meant an extra expenditure of HUF 5 million, almost half of their reserve of 12 million, and another village, where wages were increased by HUF 15 million, but we could say a lot more. So I ask you, when will the aid for settlements finally be increased? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-10-28	Mr Tibor Pogácsák State Secretary.
u2017-04-10-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for asking. We can start by saying that at least we agree that raising the minimum wage or the guaranteed minimum wage is a necessary and definitely positive step, and it is a good debate where we can argue that a wage increase is enough or we can increase it more, but we need to find the source of the wage increase. From 1 January, the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage also increased, and at the same time the employer's contribution also decreased by 5 percent, so this 5 percent decrease already has an impact on employers, including, where appropriate, the local government or the state sector, which provides some compensation for the production of the wage increase, for the exploitation of the wage increase. When the government decided to increase the minimum wage and increase the guaranteed minimum wage, it also decided to look at it, to look for the possibility that, in the case of the public sector and in the case of the local government sector, the actors of the local government could obtain the additional support that the state could provide. The 2017 Budget Act is already an approved fiscal law and contains the amount of funding for tasks in the municipalities, municipal offices and municipal tasks. Work is currently under way. [[Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs: It's been three months, Mr. Secretary.]] The Ministry of National Economy collects the exact demand of the municipalities through the Treasury, we are in detailed accounts with the municipalities, and we will ensure the guaranteed minimum wage from January, at the same time as amending the 2017 budget. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and additional expenditure for municipalities due to the increase in the minimum wage. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-30	Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedicty and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy a question: "Are we becoming China's assembly plant? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2017-04-10-31	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, It was recently announced that the lamp company Adrilux is bringing home the assembly plant of 200 people, currently operating in China, to Kisbér, because it was worth creating a assembly plant in China a decade ago, production and labour costs were so low. Chinese minimum wages accounted for a third of Hungarians; now, pay attention: Chinese wages are 5-10 percent higher than Hungarians. The difference in wages is that it was worth it for Adrilux to spend 1.3 billion forints to create a new plant in Hungary and to move this unit back home. For years this process has been taking place, the cost of Chinese production has been increasing in certain production sectors, such as automotive and electronics, and Hungary intends to become increasingly attractive with its low wages for production excluded from China, with its low added value industry becoming the China of Europe. We have now come to the point of assembling parts delivered from Chinese factories and then moving them to the West to sell them, while we are also the country of cheap labour for Western Europe. A research by the Conscious Customers' Association recently came to light, which was made in the domestic clothing industry. In the sector that employs 90 percent women, payments are around 70,000 forints, which is not more than 100-120 thousand forints by overtime. The research claimed that in the post-socialist countries, the cheap labour-based sewing machines of Western European fashion brands and trade chains are in the backyard, and that is the role of Hungary. Why does Hungary want to be China of Europe?
u2017-04-10-32	Thank you. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2017-04-10-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is two minutes short to disprove what you have said here, but I would like to say a few things about the government's intention and the government's wage and employment policy so far. It is still important for our government to have a job for as many people as possible. I find it regrettable and sad that you are also using the creation of jobs to attack the government. In addition to, or perhaps rather rather than speaking in Parliament, I suggest that my fellow Members attacking the government should take the trouble and also ask the opinion of the people who, thanks to the decision of Hungarian entrepreneurs, are reclaiming bread after a long time. It is a false and false approach that the government does not seek to increase productivity and technological standards. In fact, the government considers it important to include as much as possible in the economic life of today's potential labour reserves and also to increase efficiency; a good example of this is the creation of jobs mentioned by you. Moreover, there is no doubt that the Hungarian economy must move to a career where efficiency and technological change, competitiveness and productivity are the most important elements, and there are numerous examples of which in Hungary. To this end, R &amp; D activities and technologically intensive investments in the field of investment promotion are now focussed and, in line with this, the system of grants linked to such improvements has been amended from 1 January 2017, with substantial changes supporting this. [[12.10]] It is not, therefore, that Hungary wants to remain a low-wage country in the future, a clear rebuttal of this is the six-year wage agreement concluded with the social partners, where a significant increase in wages, minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage has been decided by the partners, and a significant tax reduction and a tax reduction on wages have also been decided. This will help to increase wages intensively. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-34	Dear Parliament, László Vécsey, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question:. After the Brexit can be a British investment in Hungary? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-10-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As we can all remember, the Brexit referendum took place with outstanding voter participation, and as a result, Britain is facing major changes. As a result of leaving the European Union, they will need a new role and a new external relationship. I think it is very important for Hungary - I think we all - to further strengthen British-Hungarian economic relations, because we have worked very well with the strong British nation state in recent years. As a Member of the Parliament of Gödöllő and its region, I can also confirm the fact that GlaxoSmithKline, one of the world's largest pharmaceutical companies, founded in 2001, is investing in the company's plant in Gödöllő for 18 billion HUF. With this step, the investment strengthens the strategic role of the Gödöllő plant within the GlaxoSmithKline Group, while technological development is also taking place. For a long time, the Gödöllő site was in competition with Germany, the most powerful economy in the EU. The Hungarian government's economic policy played a crucial role in the fact that GSK decided to develop in Gödöllő. As a result of the investment, the Hungarian plant will produce diphtheria and tetanus vaccine components for a new field of use, and in this context it is important to mention that the vaccine materials produced here will ensure the protection of billions of infants and small children worldwide. It should be highlighted, and we are also very concerned about Gödöllő, and we think it is important that thanks to the investment in the region, Gödöllő and its surroundings, 104 additional jobs will be created, creating opportunities for the citizens of our region. On this basis, I would like to ask the honourable Minister, Mr Secretary of State, whether a British investment in Hungary is still possible after the Brexit. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-36	Mr László Szabó State Secretary.
u2017-04-10-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Interesting question is whether there will be a Brexit after a British investment. Of course you will. Life will not stop, and on the basis of preliminary negotiations and discussions, I see that all the other EU Member States want to do the same. So it will not be now that we cut everything, and once the Brexit is completed, the economic processes between Britain and the 27 Member States of the European Union will stop. On the contrary, it is in everyone's interest to continue these economic processes. Britain is, by the way, one of the most serious investors in Hungary, 5-7th place on the ranking list, and it seems that the interest in investments in Hungary is constantly growing dynamically. It is a great pleasure for us that innovative and incredibly high added value investments have come from Britain in recent years, and this GlaxoSmithKline plant in Gödöllő is specifically one of the highest added value. The investment you have been talking about will not only increase enormously in value, but also in terms of Hungarian added value. These vaccines will be threefold export outflow for Hungary in the future. In addition, the Gödöllő region has become a particularly important biotechnology centre for Hungary, there are very serious investments in biotechnology and pharmaceuticals in Israel, Italy and Great Britain, and I have to say, the actual XXI. With century technology, perhaps the world's state-of-the-art technology is now operating in Gödöllő, and the ability to attract further investment in Gödöllő also means that this knowledge base and the skills of people working there now make Gödöllő competitive on a global scale. This is a huge achievement, and it must be kept, and I congratulate you on this investment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-38	Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy a question:. Already pensioners have to pay health contributions? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-10-39	I respectfully welcome you. Dear Secretary of State, I have received a lot of requests in recent years, since I submitted this oral question, it has been another such request since those who do not receive the final pension decision or who do not know about this decision in time for determining the pension amount are actually talking about the fact that the NAV is dragging the communications away by months. According to the law, it is known that the Social Insurance Pension Act is the 73rd. §2 clearly states that, in the event of pension rights but not being able to determine the level of pension rights, a pension advance must be financed and provided to the client, to the person concerned. However, the NAV does not accept this pension advance as an income certificate. As a result, pensioners guaranteed to have pension rights but not received a valid decision should receive health insurance contributions. For all these reasons, I ask the Secretary of State: why do the pensioners concerned have to pay health contributions? Is the case referred to above a general procedure, or is it just a mistrial in one or two cases? In how many calendar days will the NAV comply with the Government Office's action statement of actions for the establishment of retirement benefits to the ONYF? Finally, I would like to ask you how much time it takes in general between the lodging of a pension application and the adoption of a final decision. How has this changed in recent years, and why are they not doing everything possible to ensure that the procedure is smoother and faster? Thank you very much for your reply in advance.
u2017-04-10-40	Thank you. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2017-04-10-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, On the basis of the relevant legislative provisions, I would like to inform the Member that the payment of healthcare services contributions is in the event that a person is not insured and is not entitled to health care under any other terms. If a person is already receiving an old-age pension, he is entitled to a medical service as a pensioner and does not have to pay a fixed contribution. Persons receiving a pension advance shall have the conditions for entitlement to a pension and therefore beneficiaries of an advance shall also be entitled to a healthcare service. If necessary, they may also use the certificate issued by the Pensions Directorate to support this. We do not have any information that the NAV does not accept the pension advance order, and therefore the pensioners concerned should pay health care contributions. Therefore, in my view, the case you mentioned is a unique case. I note that in any case, the Pensioning Directorate shall immediately notify the health insurance body of the person entitled to the advance so that he can use the free healthcare service. The bodies will do their best to make it quicker. I would also like to inform you that the average period of administration of the pension scheme was 9 days in 2015, 7 days in 2016 and 9 days in 2015 and 11 days in 2016. In order to speed up the pension insurance procedure, data reconciliation is used, whereby pension insurance bodies agree the data in the register with age groups close to retirement age, so that all legal entities certified by the customer can be included in the digitised database. Every two years in the future, every insured person will be notified of the new acquisition of rights. With regard to your last question, I would like to point out that in recent years a number of favourable rules on social security have been introduced, for example under the ged extra programme, and that, in addition, minor changes will be made to the application of the system to ensure its coherence. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-42	Dear Parliament, Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture: å What does the government do against the planned incinerator in the Párkány? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Kepli has the floor. [[12.20]]
u2017-04-10-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, As the media has already been rumored, a so-called pyrolysis-technology waste incineration or treatment plant is planned in the Párkány settlement on the neighbouring Slovak side of Esztergom. This investment has caused quite a lot of dust on the Hungarian side in Esztergom and its surroundings, as according to certain official documents, this technology emits a great deal of harmful air pollutants, just like incinerators. In the same way carbon monoxides, sulphur oxides, particulate matter and organic contamination, including specifically carcinogens, may be released into the air. The issue is particularly critical because the populated areas of Esztergom are about two kilometers away from the planned plant, and Tat, Dorog and Tokodaltaro are 5-7 kilometers away. Therefore, a significant environmental impact has to be anticipated, especially because according to data from the official weather station in Tatá, the prevailing wind direction is north-north-north-west, so this is the area where the largest air pollution would come from a few waste managers. Twenty thousand tons of plastic and rubber waste would be treated, which would be a very small quantity, and a very small amount of air pollution in the Esztergom and Dorogian regions, which are already heavily contaminated with air pollutants. Dorogon is already operating a hazardous waste incineration plant and several other plants that make a significant contribution to the fact that air pollution in these settlements is exceeding the limit for most of the year, especially on the basis of the PM10 content of the particulate matter. So neither the Parachutes nor the Esztergoms, and of course the Dorogians would like this investment to happen. My question, in addition to the fact that the Ministry has registered in the international impact assessment procedure, is what further steps the government intends to take. Have you contacted the Slovak party, and how do you intend to protect people in Esztergom and the region from drastic deterioration in air quality? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-10-44	Secretary of State István Nagy has the possibility of rejoining.
u2017-04-10-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, As soon as our portfolio became aware of the Slovak party's intention to invest, we immediately requested information from Slovakia in the framework of the Espoo Convention on the Assessment of Cross-border Environmental Effects. This procedure, the Espoo Convention, gives Hungary an opportunity and an appropriate international legal opportunity as a potential impactive party to participate in the environmental impact assessment process for the planned investments, which gives us the following opportunities. Slovakia should provide environmental impact assessments of the planned investment to both the domestic public and experts. Our wallet must also organise a public forum, where the Slovak investor and the government must answer the Hungarian public's question. An expert consultation should also be carried out where the relevant Slovak and Hungarian authorities and experts can discuss their professional views in person. Now, where is this investment? At present, the environmental authorisation procedure for a few incinerators is only at the so-called preliminary stage, with the aim of defining the detailed content of the environmental impact assessment documentation on which the authorisation procedure is based. This is based on a 124-page preliminary study, the translation of which is available to the public on the professional website of the official government website. In addition, our wallet asked for the professional position of the competent Hungarian authorities in order to establish the official Hungarian position. Under the provisions of the Convention - and I would like to put this to your heart, my dear fellow Member - the environmental authorisation procedure for the investment cannot be closed by the Slovak authority, so the construction of the investment cannot be started until the international process is completed until the Hungarian party approves it. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-10-46	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedicty and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question: It's an address. Congressman István Ikotity has the floor.
u2017-04-10-47	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, We are used to having Minister Fazekas at the forefront in the fight against GMOs rhetorically, but his actions are in the opposite direction. Where the Minister is in America looking for genetic modification experiments, and where he's giving the Monsanto state land in Bábolna, if that's what he needs. However, the GMO lobby is apparently on top of the government these days. This is indicated by the Ministry of Agriculture 61/2016. An amendment to the regulation on GMO-free labelling is under preparation. The amendment of the Ministry's regulation, which Sándor Fazekas also notes, covers the matter of feed that can be used in GMO-free production, which is clearly in the interest of feed companies. Interestingly, there is no reference to the Fundamental Law in the explanatory memorandum, but there is a reference to the economy. Whose needs are we talking about? I think we are talking about the demand of feed-producing and marketing companies, which are unable to put this label on their products because of imported genetically modified soy of South America that is resistant to glufosa. It is not in the interests of consumers here, and even consumers are being legalised at the level of the Ministry's regulation. However, the most Dodonian part is when a multi-component food may be labelled for its presence as GMO-free. Therefore, if the GM product reaches 89 per cent, for example, it is more than 10 per cent that is not genetically modified, they add that it is a GMO-free product. What kind of thing is that? ! How can you do such a thing with such complex foods? There was a serious intention to change communication, and it seems that people are actually being deceived and represent the interests of large companies.
u2017-04-10-48	I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2017-04-10-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, Thank you very much for raising this question, because there is a debate in the public opinion that comes from a complete - I repeat, a complete - misunderstanding of all the intentions that the agricultural portfolio wants. It's not about softening the decree. There is no mention of calling something GMO-free in Hungarian legislation, which contains a ratio of more than 0.1 per cent. I would like you to understand, my fellow Member, that it is about the fact that all products that will be covered by a GMO-free mark in Hungary contain a limit of 0,1 per cent of genetically modified substances. How to get to the product, which is protected by a trademark, is next, and that is why we had to take measures for the wallet. Apart from us in the world, within the framework of the Danube Soya Convention and anywhere where trademarks protect non-genetically modified products, the limit is 0.9. 0.9 is written in the regulation because right now, the technology in Hungary works by producing the GMO-free soy and then taking it out to Austria for processing and returning to Hungary. Of course, we cannot guarantee 0.1 percent in Austria, because there is a guarantee of 0.9 in the Danube Soya Convention, and it protects it, and that GMO lobbyists cannot drill that Hungary is unfit to use such technology, so we had to allow that if there were to be two grains of soya left at the corner of the truck, which contains 0.9 from Austria, then the whole truck shipment should not be destroyed. Once again, the product from which meat, milk, eggs, honey is added to the shops as a final product and contains a GMO-free trademark remains 0.1 percent, very strict; there is no such strictness in the world as in Hungary, but we stick to it, because we do not want to take any risks for the Hungarian population. Thank you for asking. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-10-50	Dear Parliament, János Pócs, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture: It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-10-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Since 2012, a two-pillar agricultural risk management system has been in place in Hungary to address the weather risks of crop production, a pillar of which is the compensation scheme and the second pillar of the agricultural insurance premium. [[12.30]] The introduction of the system has made significant progress compared to previous practice, since the scope of the risks covered has increased, so that the system now protects against all relevant weather-related agricultural risks. In addition, the source of the Compensation Fund has increased and, above certain size limits, accession has become mandatory regardless of the type of economy. In the last five years, the legislation governing the compensation scheme has been amended on a number of occasions. The electronic agricultural risk management system has been introduced, and the method for calculating the reduction in return value has changed in favour of farmers on several occasions. I think it is important for producers to see what the impact of each change is, why it has been introduced and what benefits it brings in terms of the credibility of the system. In order to claim compensation, a lot of data must be provided, complex calculations should be made, which are supported by a well-functioning IT system. Producers who need help may also request the assistance of village farmers to prepare an application for an injury claim. At the start of the compensation scheme, he became a bit strict, which may be understandable. A lot of irregular sources were spilled out of the system before 2012. For example, the 30 per cent reduction in the yield limit has proved to be too high. We reduced it to 15 percent last year. Dear Secretary of State, The Compensation Act was amended again in 2017. What does the Ministry expect from the current changes, how it addresses the problems in the amendment, and how the compensation scheme will be more favourable for producers? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-04-10-52	I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2017-04-10-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, Agriculture is a very exposed sector. That's exactly why planning it in advance is always a risk to expect a sure income. This is precisely why the Ministry, the specialty, created the right guarantee elements and appropriate compensation elements for farmers' repertoire. Obviously, life always brings opportunities to simplify, to extend even more, to let farmers know, because our goal is, after all, not to leave any farmer out of this umbrella, which is to protect him. The exact reason why we reduced this accessibility limit to 15 percent is so that as many people as possible can access it with greater confidence. This reduction of 15 per cent results in the producer being entitled to compensation even with a significant damage to a single plant, whether or not other plants have otherwise produced adequate income. Another important change is the broadening of the definition of drought. In recent years, there has often been a fall in sufficient precipitation according to statistics, but at the same time it has been associated with such a high temperature that it evaporated immediately. We have introduced the concept of atmospheric drought into the areas of compensation, which is another opportunity for farmers, which we can do from this year. 24 billion HUF is still available in this compensation fund. We can face all the damage to the farmer and satisfy him. For whom it is very urgent and unable to wait for the process, we can provide a completely interest-free and treatment-free loan. When it is found that the damage has been caused, it goes to the bank, which is covered by the established claim. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] With an interest-free loan, you can take the amount in advance so that you can continue your farming and then repay it to the bank when you receive the compensation. We can also guarantee the predictability of his farming. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-04-10-54	Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy:. The Chinese workers also earn more than their Hungarian colleagues? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-10-55	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Adrilux company brings home its 200-person plant. But from where? China! China. It's a assembly plant. Thirteen years ago, it was worth installing in China, because production costs and labour costs brought this along. Twelve years later, it was found that, on the one hand, the yuan grew stronger, about 50 percent compared to the dollar, and on the other hand, the wages increased more than ten times in dollars; you know, more than ten times. Look at the seven years of Hungary behind us! We have come to the conclusion that Chinese wages are now higher than Hungarian wages. They're bringing the assembly plant home for a reason. Then, after the assembly of parts delivered from China, we will turn to Europe and take our products. Is this the process of catching up with this government in Western Europe? Is this the wage policy to achieve results? Or this is the failure that has been achieved in the last seven years, that over 600,000 qualified people have left this country. And in the education system, do they want to take away the opportunity to acquire knowledge from young people? What is the sequel, honourable Members? Where does all this lead? I would like to conclude with one sentence: when will they finally pursue a policy that does not want Hungary to become a country of assembly plants, but that it will be integrated into processes with high value added content? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-04-10-56	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary Peter Cseresnyés.
u2017-04-10-57	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is difficult for a person to decide on one's speech whether to say such things intentionally, because it is the party's expectation of you, or simply of being so uninformed, and of your indiscretions with each of your speeches, with each of your questions. [[Nándor Gúr: Put down the paper and try to answer it independently!]] I think you've asked me a number of questions like that, and I've always been able to give you answers like the ones I started with. It is very sad that when a company takes its investment from Hungary, they also attack the government, and even when a company creates a job in Hungary [[Nándor Gúr: Assembly plant!]] They're still trying to get the negative out of that job creation. Let's see what happened. For a Hungarian-owned enterprise, you make a positive decision for the Hungarian people in a bad way. What's this about? Following the economic interests of an undertaking with ambitious plans moving on the international market - I stress - a Hungarian enterprise - it made an economically rational decision, in which perhaps there were emotional elements. The essence of this is that the company's products intended for European markets are now being assembled and distributed in Europe, not in remote China, but here, in Hungary, in the middle of the continent. He knows that in the region in which he invests, there is still a reserve in the labour force and that he is receiving serious support from the government in terms of job creation and employment in order to involve people who have been inactive so far. This is the reason why they create jobs in Kisbér, which is why 200 people, people who might not have been able to get a job in any other way, are able to provide work. By the way, who came from China; I say the indiscretion because a number of car manufacturers have also returned to Europe. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So there is not only this one example that you have raised, but other large companies in Western Europe have already replanted their production in Europe. [[Nándor Gúr: What are you talking about?]] So, if you'd like to be informed, Congressman, I suggest you stay informed. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Nándor Gúr: You can read what is written down for you in at least two minutes!]]
u2017-04-10-58	Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Ministry of Human Capacities a question:. Will the Government take measures to protect young people against the Blue Whale Group? You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-10-59	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, According to some press reports from the past period, the phenomenon of the group of young people called the Blue Whale has already entered Hungary. In many countries, including Russia, Ukraine and Poland, it has been said that there have been fatalities in this aberrant game that threatens young people. In the spirit of responsibility for young people, Jobbik believes that policy must take decisive action against the Blue Whale group in this matter in order to prevent the sprouting and further spread of this. [[12.40]] We believe that, in addition to the impossibility of the group's online activities in Hungary and the possible legal tightening of the criminal code, measures should be taken to ensure the protection and safety of children, young people and the prevention of further tragedies. I think it is important to note that the aim is not panicking, but prevention, and on this basis I would like to point out to the attention of the honourable Secretary of State and the Government the package of proposals made by Jobbik on this matter. Above all, we believe that it is necessary, in this case too, to have a school education and discussion, following a tragic bus accident in Verona, in school classes. We also hope that the rethinking of the National Basic Learning Plan will include conscious Internet usage, the inclusion of critical use of social media and smartphones in the basic curriculum. There is no question that learning media awareness in youth is essential in an increasingly digitalised world and with the general spread of the Internet. Thirdly, in view of the underfunded and overloaded school psychology system, it would also be necessary to strengthen this system, because it is essential to have the opportunity to remedy all of this in the event of psychological and psychological problems in students. Dear Secretary of State, The protection and security of young people are our shared responsibility. On this basis, I ask whether the government is willing to take the measures listed above for the benefit of young people. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-10-60	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2017-04-10-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Fortunately, much more has been done by the government, although there are media that say this is just bullshit, but regardless of that, I think that we should always pay attention to the interests of students, the interests of young people, and, if possible, take preventive action, since these news reports have been on for a long time. The important thing is, as you said, that we obviously do not want to increase alarm unduly, we do not want to increase the visibility of the matter, but we do want to protect the young Hungarian people. Last week, the police were not notified of this, but nevertheless, the police also drew everyone's attention to this threat in a statement, as here the most vulnerable young people are trying, in a devious manner, to drive them into self-mutilation or suicide, according to the news. The Klebelsberg Center informed teachers, teachers about this danger through the school district centers, and in many cases it was also forwarded to parents, and in many cases parents were also invited to pay more attention to their children. The Digital Prosperity Programme also includes parts - obviously not in relation to the specific issue, but in general - that draw children's attention to the dangers of the Internet as much as possible. In 2013 we also adopted a legislative amendment here in Parliament, and additional legislation obliges Internet service providers to provide free filter software for everyone who is their subscriber, so that they can download it, and it is possible not only to take the beginning of the Blue Whale, but also to set up other types of Internet harassment, guaranteeing IT barriers for children and minors to get access to this. It is also very important, of course, to strengthen the school psychology system, to which the Member pointed out. In 2011, we amended the legislation that the application of kindergarten psychologists and school psychologists was not only the decision of the head of the institution, but we also laid down strict legal conditions that require them to be applied under certain conditions, and that institutions are obliged to hire school psychologists or kindergarten psychologists. And we hope that this can not only help students, students, but also parents and educators. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-62	Ladies and gentlemen, Sallai R. Benedicty and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister's Office: It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-10-63	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Not even a single cut in the planned expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant has taken place, but the government is already spending money with both hands on uncertain investment. In contrast to your claims, the European Commission has not completed all the investigations. Enforcement cases before the European Court of Justice are only just beginning, and only the court can definitively decide whether the extension arrangement without tender complies with EU law. In other words, the outcome of the whole project is doubtful at present, but public spending has already started. The whole or at least a significant part of Fidesz's economic moonyard is already swarming around the investment, making the question of what is necessary for meaningless and wasteful expansion, with Tiborcz, Garancsi, Mészáros. It makes sense for the whole business to be able to feed bottomless Oligarchs after the EU funds were planned for 2018. You're paying, the only problem is they're throwing our money away. They're paying the Russians to keep the loan available. They pay the party press to promote the Russian power plant, perhaps not built and rejected by the majority of the Hungarian population. They pay lobbyists to find a way to get Brussels to accept investment of Russian interest contrary to European law. And they pay the friends' companies, who are becoming more and more spectacularly integrated into the chain of business around the expansion project. So please answer exactly how much money has been spent to prepare for the Paks expansion and what the billions have gone to. Moreover, is the government not afraid that the unbridled waste of money will prove pointless? The fate of the Bulgarian plant project, which is also of Rosatom interest, suggests that at the end of the project only an expensive site of 100 billion will remain empty.
u2017-04-10-64	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy.
u2017-04-10-65	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, It is good that it is possible to pour clean water from week to week, and this means that LMP would like to see Hungarian households pay three times as much for electricity as Hungarian households would after the reduction of the rent. This may be a legitimate policy on your part, but it should not be forgotten that the decisions of the government were continuous before 2010, because before 2010, the Parliament decided that it was absolutely necessary to support capacity maintenance in Paks, and the government repeated this decision between 2010-14, and the Hungarian Parliament confirmed this, and until March 2017, until the Commission's green light flashed, there was no activity other than the preparation of the investment. [[István Ikotity leaves the meeting room.]] Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that there is indeed a debate between the European Commission and various green organisations, but this debate is not a debate between the Hungarian Government and the European Commission; it will not in any way delay the realisation of the investment; it will not prevent cheap electricity from being sustainable in Hungary after the Paks expansion. I would like to send a message to the Member - if he were here in the Chamber and listened to the answer I give to his question - that it would be appropriate to speak to the lobbyists who put this text in his hands. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Where is he, really?]] - that the debates that the European Commission is conducting with various green organisations should also be classified in a category, according to the legal interpretation, [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: There is no LMP! It's gone.]] which has no influence on the maintenance of capacity in Paks. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Your own theme doesn't care how embarrassing that is!]] It is clear that the LMP has no other purpose but to force a green policy on Hungary, which would cost the Hungarian people much more than they would now have to pay for a kilowatt hour of electricity in the context of the predictable electricity price. LMP wants expensive electricity, LMP wants to support the wind lobby, LMP wants everything that's bad for people. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: But where is he?]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-66	Dear Parliament, Happy István, representative of Fidesz, wanted to ask the Minister for Agriculture [[Dr. István Nagy, as Dr. János Fónagy points out: Mr. President!]] : Where does Highway 4 reach? It's an address. By answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, will answer the question. You have the floor, Congressman. [[12.50]]
u2017-04-10-67	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Highway 4 is the busiest one-digit highway in Hungary, from Kálvin Square to Szolnok and Debrecen to Zahony, so it also owns the longest road address. The enormous amount of traffic that he carries out is due not only to its length, but also to the fact that it is an almost inevitable element in the road network of the North Great Plain. At some stages today, it is forced to pass tens of times the traffic capacity planned decades ago, mostly twice in one lane. Number 4 is unfortunately also leading the accident statistics in the comparison of the main roads. There is therefore a great need to build parallel fast-track infrastructure. The construction of the M4 motorway has already started at smaller stages, and recently obstacles have been removed from the construction of another section of the track. The next stage will be built between the Romanian border and the new village of Berettyó, where it will join the M35 road, which is also built, which will go towards Debrecen and the M3 motorway. Once the two road network elements are completed, there will be a direct traffic link between Oradea and Budapest, which may be able to relieve some load on main road 4. At the same time, it should be noted that the link is created by a significant detour, so if you want to get from one city to another by the shortest route, you will still have to take main road 4. I must add, Mr Secretary of State, that this is the most important route in my constituency, as the main road 4 crosses the northern part of my constituency, here is the part where the section of Abony-Army was stopped by withdrawing EU funds. I ask you, Minister, when are the new motorway sections expected to be completed, when we can travel from Budapest to Oradea. When can the construction of Highway 4 continue in Szolnok and Törökszentmiklós? When can we travel by expressway from Budapest to Törökszentmiklós? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-04-10-68	Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary.
u2017-04-10-69	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The government's primary objective is to continuously develop and improve the state of the domestic road network. The Government decision on infrastructure investments, their coordination and implementation until 2022 contains four phases of the M4 motorway between the M0 and the Romanian border. The first section covers the M4 motorway between M0 and Cegléd. The construction works have started, the construction is taking place and are expected to be completed in the third quarter of 2019. The second section is the section of motorway M4 between Cegléd and Abony. The start of the construction is planned in the first quarter of 2019 and is expected to be completed by the second quarter of 2021. This section is currently preparing the project. The third section on the M4 is the section between Abony-East and Törökszentmiklós with northern avoidance and construction of a new Tisza bridge. Technical preparedness averages 30 percent, construction may continue this year and is expected to end in the fourth quarter of 2019. The fourth stage is the implementation of the M4 motorway between Berettyóújfalu and Nagykereki border. The construction started at the end of 2016 and is expected to be completed by the third quarter of 2019. The construction of the M4 motorway is on schedule, and the implementation of the missing sections will continue in the future depending on the availability of resources. The connection of Oradea to the European motorway network on the M3-M35-M4 track will be completed by the end of 2019. Thank you for asking and for your attention. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-04-10-70	Thank you. Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. When will the Government fulfill its promise on Szabolcs roads? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-10-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked this question in Parliament, but I am afraid this is not the last time I will ask it. The M3 motorway was a significant help to Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County because it created jobs through the companies that settled there. However, there is a new problem: the roads are in such a bad condition that businesses are no longer able to safely deliver their products or semi-finished products to the motorway, and that is why they are considering going elsewhere. This would be an immeasurable loss for the county in terms of jobs. I am not talking about the fact that these very, very bad roads also mean that, thanks to health policy, people who live there have to travel for a much longer period of time to get care in a hospital, because the benefits are gone. So I don't have to prove importance. The question is, is there any money to make it happen? Well, I think, ladies and gentlemen, that in a country where Makovecz-style boiler room can be built for the football field in the Highlands, where we can support foreign football teams with our money, where billions can be spent on preparations for non-existent Olympics, where millions can be mailed for actions called national consultations, there is money for this. Therefore, there must be roads, there must be health care, there must be education, there must be money for the quality of life, especially in counties that are in difficulty. Today, there has been a different context in which the term Soros or name has been mentioned here in the House, and I can only remember this in a context that I would very much like to see most of the renovations and developments in this difficult county first. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President.
u2017-04-10-72	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2017-04-10-73	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, Indeed, the government's continuous and high priority is to improve the road network. This is a permanent, permanent process with renewed stages, so it is expected that your questions will also be permanent and renewed, so thank you in advance. Last year, in the framework of the complex road renovation programme, a total of 560 kilometers of main and side roads were renewed with a total budget of HUF 69 billion. In Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, we renewed seven sections of the road at 45.5 kilometers. The preparations for the construction of the renovation of some HUF 100 billion are underway this year, and the government will decide on the funds needed for the implementation in the first half of the year. In Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, 33 sections of the road are renovated in a length of about 93 kilometers at a cost of 6.3 billion forints. The operational programme for territorial and urban development is available for the renovation of the back roads from EU funds, with investments worth HUF 44 billion at national level. 15 projects were submitted for this in Szabolcs-Szatmár county. In addition to the programmes, ten more projects were carried out in 2015-16, and five more projects are under way this year. In 2016, the State concluded an operating and maintenance contract worth approximately HUF 400 billion for five years to carry out the management of the national road network. As a result, the road operator will be able to perform the management tasks of the existing national road network in a more predictable way and at a higher level. Thank you for your question and your attention, Congressman. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-04-10-74	Thank you. Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. How many lives will it take to build the bypass of the M49 motorway in the Kosord area? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-10-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, As Dr. István Apáti recently pointed out in his oral question, the residents of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, which were covered by highway 49, are affected by serious problems. For example, according to data from the 2006 traffic census, 10 324 vehicles passed through the settlement with 3 000 inhabitants in 24 hours; then, five years later, this figure increased by 20-40 percent and passenger traffic by 60 percent. However, in addition to the fact that large traffic results in the fragmentation and depreciation of housing and institution buildings, it is a serious factor that the fundamental rights of the population are violated, as accidents are already on a daily basis along the narrow, but very busy road, which are often fatal. People living in split towns can only cross the road from one side to the other with great difficulty, and children cannot be allowed out onto the open street, nor can they go to school without an escort. In addition, the air has an unhealthy concentration. In his reply to my fellow Member, Dr. István Apáti, State Secretary, said that until 2022 the government did not plan to build the bypass, even though it has been promised for more than ten years, Fidesz campaigned to build it in previous cycles. At the same time, the government is focusing on visual investment rather than on the livelihood and safety of people, such as the 2 000 inhabitants of Gyulaháza from 3000 billion built space center, space center. Let us hope that this investment will not come to the fate of the Turtle House in Rakamaz. In any case, the Fidesz government could open its eyes to the everyday life of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County residents before looking at space. On average, four people die every year in Kocsordon's traffic accident. [[13.00]] The road won't be built until 2022. I'm asking you, how many lives does it take to build the M49 bypass to be planned by the government? I look forward to your honored, meaningful reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-10-76	I also give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2017-04-10-77	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The network role of the M49 motorway is indisputable, and its implementation is also included in the national road network development concept. Over the last decade, traffic growth on the road network, including a drastic increase in heavy goods vehicles, has become a general phenomenon throughout the country. We can also see signs of this on Highway 49, the highest traffic values, 12 thousand vehicles per day, between Mátészalka and Highway 491. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The Government decision on the coordination and implementation of infrastructure investments related to Hungary's short- and medium-term road development until 2022 does not currently include the implementation of the M49 motorway, but the need for inclusion in the programme has also been raised at political and professional level in the light of traffic data. In the medium term, the introduction of the remaining truncated motorway network elements to the border and the connection of county-righted cities to the motorway network are among the government's main programmes. According to the road development concept adopted last year, more than 900 km of motorways, motorways or European highways will be built from HUF 2480 billion by 2022, alongside the currently 4450 km motorway. The future scheduled implementation of the M49 route and the connection of Szatmárnémet to the European motorway network on the M3-M49 track depend on complex road network development goals and current funding opportunities. With its construction, the municipalities will be relieved of the burden you have mentioned. Thank you for your question and your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-10-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I salute my fellow Members, the guests. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek and Erzsébet Schmuck, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why do they not consider caring for sick children a valuable job? It's an address. It's up to Congresswoman.
u2017-04-10-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In other countries care for a sick, disabled child and family member, which requires a 24 - hour presence, is considered a full home job. Not only does it cost extra, it costs at least twice as much as raising a healthy child, but only 50 thousand forints of benefits, 50 220 forints. This is what will be paid as a special care fee in 2017 for those who care for their children and relatives who are severely injured and who are not able to provide self-sufficiency or only help. In Hungary, this affects 12,000 families. Meanwhile, the state pays a much higher per capita amount for care in the residential institutions it maintains. The state now costs HUF 97 thousand per month to care for a severely injured child in the boarding facility. If the government raised the care fee to the same extent, it would cost the budget HUF 6.7 billion a year, counting 12,000. 24-hour care should be recognised as work for which minimum wage should at least be paid. According to one of the mothers concerned, we are in one person mothers, nurses, caregivers, a little dietetics, physiotherapists, medical educators, we are also used in physical, mental and spiritual fields. Degradedly low aid tells me we're not valuable, interesting to the supposedly family-friendly government. The government cannot say that it has solved the problems of home care, as long as these people receive such shamefully little, even lower, care than community service, which condemns them to certain poverty. So I'm asking you, when are you going to recognize the 24-hour caregiver's work as an employment relationship?
u2017-04-10-80	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-04-10-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, In 2010, when Fidesz-KDNP began to govern, the rates of care were indeed rather low, the minimum amount that had to be received was HUF 28 500, and who was luckier, had to be managed from HUF 37 050. We also thought that this situation should be changed, these amounts should be increased, since the work of people who care for their relatives at home must be recognised; if we look at the proportions of this, 34 percent of the home caregivers should have their own children, 34 percent of their parents, and 32 percent of their other relatives. That is why, on the one hand, we have constantly raised the fees to give everyone more than before and, on the other hand, we have introduced a new priority care fee. Indeed, in this new priority care fee category, 13 126 people are now receiving support or compensation from the state for their work. We raised, as I said, these items, instead of the previous HUF 28 500, who now receives an increased care fee of HUF 46 500, the special care fee, which, as I said, is a new category for the care of seriously disabled or requiring increased care, is HUF 55 800. 28 500 - 55 800, I think that's a rather striking difference. We will also strive for further years to increase these amounts further, as we have done in previous years. I would also like to tell you that social security now includes additional benefits to the care fee, since it is also entitled to a health care fee, or the duration of the payment should be taken as a service period, and the pension calculation should be based not on the amount of the care fee, but on the minimum wage. Thus, if a person retires, it will significantly increase his income. That's what the government is trying to do later. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-10-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor.
u2017-04-10-83	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, On 1 January 2017, the operation and maintenance of schools took place in the hands of the State. Other questions of the transformation include the operation of the public catering. Public catering is not only for school cafets, it includes all organised community services providing regular catering for those provided with social care, child welfare and child protection services in educational and educational institutions, summer camps financed by state and local government, in-patient facilities. Therefore, it is very important that we have a clear understanding of some of the issues of catering. In my own settlement, I saw that when the schools were handed over, there was chaos, that now with the catering cuisine, with what is inside the school building, what will happen; the KLIK will carry it or stay, or within one institution two maintainers, the school will own the KLIK, the public catering municipality. There were examples where the local government was so afraid that they had to pass on the feeding, as they profited from the feeding, whether by holding summer events, smaller birthdays, graduations, then they carried the kitchen, so they moved the catering to the kindergarten so that they could save the school's cuisine. Last week, the scandal in Miskolc revealed that companies close to Fidesz may now be allowed to feed their food, see the interest of Miskolc, Lőrinc Mészáros. Or if I give you the Bishop's Lady example, Mr. Secretary of State, there are more than a thousand food-cookings organized for a company in Budapest-Fót, and they are talking about being part of Erik Bánki's interest. I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, is that what's going to happen in the settlements now? Will the next, more than 65 billion-dollar catering project be stolen and given to fidesz buddies? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary. [[13.10]]
u2017-04-10-84	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-04-10-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I do not think that you can provide an example of the government that raised the resources that could be used to feed children to such a great extent, since from HUF 29 billion, which was in 2010, we have raised these funds to HUF 74 billion by 2017 this year. In recent years, the framework has increased year after year, which is available; year after year, the number of young children who are now entitled to a free children's meal has increased from 92 thousand to 318 thousand. Obviously, if the MSZP government had remained at the helm, it would still be 92 thousand, and not 318 thousand... [[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP, among other things: Where do you get it? You're so smart.]] I would also like to draw attention to the fact that if [[The president's ringing the bell.]] There would have been no change of government in 2010, there would have been no social catering for children during spring, autumn or winter holidays. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: We were talking about now, Mr. Secretary of State! 2017!]] since during these periods, we have extended the possibility for the right holders to receive public catering. Therefore, from the age of three, when preschooling is mandatory in Hungary, there cannot be a child who does not get enough to eat, since if he goes to a nursery, he can eat even under three years of age, and surely from three years of age, at school, either during school hours or during breaks, he always gets healthier, but at the right amount. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó's intervention.]] However, your various attacks are obviously trying to cover up their own tragic government activities in MSZP-SZDSZ by launching over-strength attacks, but it is difficult to know exactly your direction now, because here you say sometimes that this is a very heavy burden for the municipalities, sometimes you tell the municipalities that it is a source of revenue. In his written question lodged two months ago, he said that it was wrong for this to fall into the hands of the state, now he says how good it would be if he were in the hands of a local government or in the hands of a state. [[The intervention of Anita Herring.]] So there were all kinds of suggestions and all the opposites, about as much as [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] concerning the Klebelsberg Centre seat between the Bishop's Lady and Berettyóújfalu, he has already opposed everything and the opposite. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: After seven years, that's a weak answer! Interview from the benches of MSZP: Very weak display!]]
u2017-04-10-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, Congresswoman of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: What does the government intend to do about the continued destruction of the Zsámbek temple? It's an address. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor.
u2017-04-10-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, One of the most beautiful traditions of the late Roman style in Hungary is the church of the Premontre Prepostership named after János Baptist, Zsámbék, which has been in ruins since the earthquake in 1763. In 1889 István Möller, architect, commissioned by Ágoston Trefort, carried out maintenance work to save the remains of the church and monastery. However, not counting the discoveries of the 1930s, the monument has not been touched by hands. In the 1990s several plans were made for the preservation of the church and the monastery, but no substantial work had been carried out for decades. However, the destruction process is accelerating. The Rom Church Conference, which was organised jointly by the Zsámbék municipality and ICOMOS in 2016, concluded that the stability and protection of the ruin walls is currently not guaranteed, for which there is a situation that threatens the safety of life and property. The walls preserved as ruins allow only limited use and exploitation, so, of course, their maintenance costs are disproportionately high. The drainage of surface water and the street rainwater surrounding the area is also unsolved in the ruin area. The building and its area cannot be approached without a visitor's route, therefore the reception of visitors is unsolved, as well as a worthy presentation of the building history of the prepostership. It is also important to draw attention to the functional problems of the monument. The use of the church and the monastery is unsolved; there is no visitor centre that could provide room for events and all programs that would primarily show the church and the history of the Premontre order in a modern, interactive way. On this basis, I ask the Secretary of State what the government intends to do about the continued destruction of the Zsámbek temple. Are there plans for a wide range of tourist uses in the area? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-04-10-88	Thank you very much, Madam President of the Commission. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-04-10-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Thank you for your words. I agree with most of them, too, that obviously these sites, which are iconic both for the Hungarians and for Christianity, must be maintained as well as protected, and, as you said, there are hundreds of years of tasks here, where appropriate. Just ask your party president, Gábor Vona, how he thought Islam was the last hope of humanity. [[Grumbles and interrogations from the benches of Jobbik: Ouch! Oh, my God.]] In the meantime, you're here to speak about the renovation of the rubble church. These two sentences are kind of hard to come up with. Over the past seven years, the government has tried to renovate as many churches as possible or to build a new church where there was a need for a new church. Between 2011-2016 the Hungarian government supported the renovation of 971 churches in Hungary and 301 outskirts, and we renovated churches worth more than HUF 21 billion. In addition, there was a need for new churches, which is why the government provided funding for the construction of 57 churches in the motherland and 20 borders - this means 5.8 billion forints. I think it's over 1,000, and there's also over 1,300 churches we've been trying to renovate or build a new one. We had to do this because, obviously, before 2010, the governments at the time had a great deal to catch up on, and they didn't have that in their hearts. We are a little sorry that when the Finance Act contains these lines, Jobbik does not support them, but it also did not support that when we wanted to protect Christian culture by the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law, you did not support it either. [[Dóra Dúró: I asked about the church of Zsámbek!]] But fortunately, it is not up to you what and how it will be realized. The Premontre Order will soon be 900 years old, as well as the Cistercian Order. For this reason, the government has been negotiating for weeks, even months, how with the order it can carry out a series of memorials and renovations worthy of 900 years of order [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And the church of the Boots. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-10-90	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sallai Benedek, Erzsébet Schmuck and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of Agriculture: It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2017-04-10-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Once again, the Fidesz government took on the role of a national savior when it fought Brussels and multinational companies, saying that multinationals sell foods of different quality in Austria than in Hungary. It is right and necessary that they finally take on the protection of domestic consumers, but how about the government finally sweeping around its own house? For example, it would review the Hungarian Food Book, which contains specifications for certain foods and food ingredients. The Conscious Customers' Association has tested 41 fruity and fruity yogurt with special attention to products for children. For example, the sugar and fruit content of yogurts and whether they contain colours, aromas or potentially allergenic substances have been investigated. Only the first three placed products of the test contained more fruit than sugar. With the exception of the first, each contained aromas and colours, and most of them did not regret the allergenic ingredients. Mr. Secretary. Perhaps you know that diabetes in Hungary is a popular disease. Currently, over 772,000 suffer from diabetes, and more and more children and adults are allergic to food. Do you not think that the real task of agriculture is to provide the population with a healthy and affordable price, and that the revision of the Hungarian Food Book is an essential part of this? The LMP has already presented its 19-point proposal for a decision to address existing food safety and food quality problems. It is a pity that the committee responsible rejected it. I would like to know what measures you want to take. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-04-10-92	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2017-04-10-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Congresswoman, I think he's banging open doors. At the same time, allow me to express my incomprehension when you say that the food scandal of Fidesz is going to happen. Tell me: is it not our job to fight to ensure that Hungarian customers have the same chance of getting the same food content? Isn't it our job to talk about it, to make sure that we feel deceived, to put substitute materials in these products, and to try to sell them to us as originals? [[13.20]] I simply cannot get on the agenda that, when 71 out of 100 products are proven to replace certain ingredients with substitution materials, let us say cheaper materials, compared to those marketed in Austria or Italy, there is not an elemental outrage and an answer to this question, but they simply start, try to discredit it, and you, a representative of a green party, call it the food scandal of Fidesz. What you are saying, what you are asking, we fully agree, you are banging open gates, because the regulations and guidelines of the Hungarian Food Book must be reviewed at least every five years in order to comply with technological developments and market changes in this area. We try to draw attention to better quality products by creating enhanced regulation so that they can be distinguished in their labelling, so we apply the different. excellent food products. You remember what kind of debate we had here in Parliament when we regulated the upper limit of salt content. We were everything, but we weren't being fair when we tried to introduce a ceiling for children's health at the cafeteria. They didn't join us, dear Congresswoman. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They didn't stand there saying that we were right, that the government was right, because we need to know that all food is the basis of our health, and that our health is the food itself, and that our food is the most effective. Therefore, I ask you to support us in this fight. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Defence: When and in what form would the protection centuries be set up? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Kulcsár has the floor.
u2017-04-10-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, As we have seen before, the exchange of ministers at the head of the Ministry of Defence in autumn 2015 brought positive changes. Minister Simicskó has often spoken about things that would be eligible for funding from Jobbik, but in many cases no action has followed the fine words. I would like to draw the attention of the Hungarian people who are committed to the defence issue and the attention of this House. Last year, the Minister spoke several times about the territorial protection units to be set up. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary agrees with the introduction of the territorial protection principle, but there are a number of things that are not clear in this area. At the end of the year, the defence government announced that a recruitment campaign would be launched in February to attract the attention of young people in the first place. The aim, according to the Minister, would be to increase the number of reserve personnel by a thousand, and to set up regional protection units per district. Dear Secretary of State, It is already mid-April, but there is a lot of silence on this subject. I therefore ask you to answer our questions on this subject. When can the promised territorial security units stand up? What will be their exact task, and who will coordinate their activities? Who will supervise them, and who will give the task to the centuries to be set up? What's their legal status? Where will they station and where will they store their equipment? Do we have the necessary physical and infrastructural conditions for all of this? Have there been any plans to motivate the members of the centuries? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-10-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary.
u2017-04-10-97	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Your question gives us the opportunity to talk about the renewal, reorganization of the voluntary reserve system and the creation of a regional reserve force. As you know, in order to change Hungary's security environment and to improve the system of defence and social relations, it is necessary to put the voluntary reserve system on a new basis and build its social base within the framework of the Zrinyi 2026 military and military development programme. In this context, the National Assembly also established the Defence Sports Federation. The voluntary reserve system will be organised on a territorial basis in 174 districts and 23 metropolitan districts, with the main task of strengthening the country's overall defence and resilience. By the end of the ten-year period, all 197 districts of the country will have volunteered, trained and trained ties on which to rely in the event of trouble in the country. The activities of the district units will be coordinated and supervised by the Hungarian Defence Service, Training and Training Command. The activities of the district units are managed directly by the preparatory departments to be set up at county level. Volunteer reserve soldiers are subject to the rules applicable to voluntary reserve soldiers and their legal status is governed by the law on the status of soldiers. It is a foundation that without a reserve, without a reserve force, there is no force, so the development of the voluntary reserve system, the investment in it is also an investment in Hungary's security and the improvement of security. I trust that all the factions present will support our efforts. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. After the oral questions have been discussed, we will move on to immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Bárándy, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. National consultation? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Bárándy has the floor.
u2017-04-10-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, The real national consultation was held yesterday: almost 100,000 people demanded the withdrawal of the CEU law [[Interjection in the ranks of Fidesz: How much?]] Almost 100,000 people demanded the restoration of the rule of law, and yes, your resignation. You have reached the point of breaking down the rule of law that you are systematically beginning to destroy institutions that are unwilling to join the system of national cooperation. A Jewish businessman of Hungarian origin is declared an enemy of the country. It's happened before in history. It didn't do you any good. [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You brought back one of the darkest methods in history, only then were people forced to brand themselves, and now Fidesz forces organizations to do the same. For the record, it doesn't look good for a government whose first people, including you, wouldn't have made it this far without the support of George Soros. You betray Hungary, betray your own country, because the breakdown of the rule of law and democratic order, the stigmatisation and persecution of civilians, the abolition of freedom of teaching, that is treason. (Interjections in the ranks of the governing parties. ) In order to remain in power, you incite xenophobia against the European Union, risking Hungary's exclusion. You're selling our country to a Russian dictator, a kilo. In the eyes of more and more Hungarians, Prime Minister, you have become a dictator without a counter-opinion, not only in the eyes of left-wing and liberal people, since your own European party family is protesting against you. I therefore ask you, Prime Minister, did you hear the opinion of the people and withdraw the CEU law or the civil law? I also ask, Prime Minister, because this demonstration was not only about the CEU, but also about the anti-government protest: do you not feel that you have done enough damage to your own country, so you should resign? Thank you very much.
u2017-04-10-100	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2017-04-10-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Before I express my position on any substantive issue, I would like to state that I strongly reject the origin-based approach to any Hungarian political debate. [[Interjection in the ranks of Fidesz: That's right! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] We do not accept this from the radical right or the left. I'm surprised, by the way, that there's a comment coming from your bench that I have to say that there's no place for an anti-Semitic approach. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It's the other way around, Prime Minister.]] We declared zero tolerance on the contrary. The Jewish community in Hungary is and will continue to be protected by the government. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It's a misunderstanding!]] As to the substance of the case: I would like to make it clear that I see a disinformation campaign going on against Hungary [[Interjection in the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] It's not new, we've seen it before, it's just like what they've done to us in the constitutional and migrant cases. The truth is that the government does not close any university, so George Soros' Central European University. The government's aim is to ensure that all universities in Hungary are subject to the same rules and that there are no privileges. [[13.30]] An exception to the general rules on universities can only be made - then perhaps [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: When you want it!]] - if this is provided for in the international treaty ratified by the Hungarian Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-102	Thank you, Prime Minister. I give the floor to Congressman Bárándy in return.
u2017-04-10-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, Just because you refuse something doesn't mean the facts are facts. That's what you do. On the other hand, as far as the substance of your answer is concerned: first of all, you are asking for a law in a university that has not yet been passed by the Parliament - unfortunately we are over that now - but has not yet entered into force. Obviously, this law couldn't and couldn't be followed. As for your reply on disinformation, Prime Minister, 80,000 people must be deceived. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] All academics, Nobel laureate scientists, deputy rector of the University of Oxford, they're all deluded people who don't know and never knew how higher education works in the world. That, Prime Minister, I think is an empty excuse. 80,000 people yesterday - they obviously don't all go to CEU - recognized it [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that today is the CEU, and tomorrow they are the CEU. They protested against it. [[The president's ringing again.]] Mr. Prime Minister. Those who have suppressed freedom, the desire for knowledge...
u2017-04-10-104	Thank you very much.
u2017-04-10-105	...they've always failed, and they've failed badly. [[The president's ringing again.]] Looks like it's your turn. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-10-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. The rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister.
u2017-04-10-107	As surprising as it may seem, I have to agree with you: I remember when you were in the government before the '90s. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Lajos Korózs: Viktor, that was very bad! Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That was very weak! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I was 13 years old! The president's ringing the bell.]] It also irritated us when the power used the expression that they were deceived or misunderstood. I would never underestimate the youth of Hungary. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] And I would never dare to say what you said when you were on the government before 1990. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. László Kács: The Bárándy and I were 14 years old!]] That anyone who speaks against you is deceived. I don't see it that way. A lot of people are worried about school leave, a lot of people care about freedom. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] freedom of university education is important. All we can do is calm them down. The thing is, in Hungary, we don't close any universities. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We set up and open universities in Hungary [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] That's what you can trust in the future. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-108	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Can a paradigm change be expected? It's an address. Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi has the floor.
u2017-04-10-109	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, The last four weeks we talked about our EU wage initiative for Jobbik Hungary, which was initiated by the Jobbik Movement, where it took a clear position: it rejected this initiative and accused Jobbik that we wanted to hand over wage policy and tax policy to Brussels. [[Németh Szilárd István: That's right! How much did you get for it?]] I have seen that you have also launched a national consultation on this subject, which I believe is also a personal responsibility, and you may not have been able to grasp what we have talked about here in relation to our wage Union policy, because there is a serious misunderstanding that may also feed on the fact that you do not understand what we are trying to say. It is not a transfer of powers, it is not that we want to give anything to Brussels. It is about eight countries in Central and Eastern Europe, on the initiative of the Jobbik Hungary Movement, to send to Brussels, the European Commission our legitimate need to catch up on wages and living standards, and to subject everything to this economic policy, subject our economic policy and our cohesion policy to changes in the standard of living in the common market, Prime Minister, in which the industry, agriculture, manufacturing industry, including your governance, has been destroyed in Hungary. In other words, we are taking the opportunity from EU law to bring to the common negotiating table in Brussels the common problem of Central and Eastern Europe, a real issue of fate; you have not done so for 27 years, either in government or in opposition, what you are about to do in the opposition of Jobbik Hungary. We will continue to ask the Prime Minister whether he will take the lead in this initiative, whether he will help us to make sure that he does. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] After a first turn of national interest by you, should a change be made in this matter? Does it support this initiative? [[The president's ringing again.]] Yes or no? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-10-110	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2017-04-10-111	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Perhaps we should start with what we agree on, and that is not little: we also believe that the most important thing is that people have a job. If there's a job, there's everything. I am not using this short time to explain the facts you know from outside that, at the beginning of our government, unemployment was somewhere at 12 percent, and now it is somewhere around 4.3 percent. [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true! Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] And as we plan to achieve general and full employment. [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true either!]] If there is work, this prerequisite of everything, then it makes sense to talk about wages, and I agree with you, my honourable fellow Member, that the aim is to give people the highest possible wage. The fact is that we have agreed, not with Brussels, as you suggest, I will discuss this later, because from there I do not see any hope, but we have agreed with employers and employers, and accordingly we have reduced employers' taxes, and in return they have made a large wage increase from January 2017. It was not Brussels, but the Hungarian employers. The minimum wage was raised by 15 percent and the minimum wage by 25 percent. We plan to continue raising the minimum wage in 2018, so in the year ahead, the minimum wage will increase by 8 percent and the minimum wage by 12 percent. Meanwhile, in parallel, the salaries of teachers, higher education workers, nurses, doctors, residents, law enforcement workers and soldiers are also increasing. I believe that results can be achieved in this regard in Hungary and not in Brussels. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-112	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I give the floor to Congressman Gyöngyösi in return.
u2017-04-10-113	Prime Minister, I do not understand your stubbornness: the Jobbik Movement for Hungary chose an instrument of European Union law that you voted for in December 2007 with the Socialists, the SZDSZ, when you said yes to the Lisbon Treaty. This European citizens' initiative comes from this Treaty, and there is nothing else here but the rightful need in the EU Statute in Brussels to demand equal pay for equal work for the Hungarian people, together with the entire region of Central and Eastern Europe. I do not understand, Prime Minister, that you are, when your entire political career is a multitude of hairpins, you are Gyorgy Soros, supported by Gyorgy Sörös... [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] He became George's enemy. From Simicska's roommate and friendship, you have turned against Soro... Simicska. (Development in the ranks of the governing parties. ) One of Putin's biggest opponents became one of Putin's greatest friends. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] From Liberal to National and Christian [[The president's ringing again.]] And an anti-communist is one of the most...
u2017-04-10-114	Congressman, your time is up.
u2017-04-10-115	... agent and agent laws to this day. [[The president's ringing again.]] does not support transparency. Execute one turn [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]] Prime Minister, you have a year to live. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-10-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would ask the Member to study the house rules: he has only one minute, or 60 seconds at a time like the Prime Minister for a rejoinder.
u2017-04-10-117	I didn't understand everything exactly, but it might not be my fault. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] In any case, if you will allow me to mention that we have seen a little more hairy in Hungarian politics than the fact that you, who recently burned an EU flag and stepped out of the European Union, are now on the side of Brussels, just as you did in the vote on the quota population. When it comes to turns, there's no doubt that everyone else here can only apply for the silver medal. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] However, I must also say that I cannot understand what made them fall in love with Brussels, and I do not understand why they think that decisions will be made in Brussels when it comes to taxes and wages that are good for Hungarians. All I've ever seen is when it comes to rent, taxes, and wages. [[Dóra Dúró intervenes.]] has not yet been good for the Hungarians from Brussels. It's always been the multi-party thing. Why should we turn to Brussels in the matter of wage increases instead of taking care of wages ourselves, as the government does? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.40]]
u2017-04-10-118	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is the explanation? It's an address. Congressman Hadházy has the floor.
u2017-04-10-119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, We started a conversation a few months ago, but you didn't answer my question. We are talking about the 60ust, a estate that you use, your family uses, and the mayor of Felcsút pays 15 million forints a year as rent. So you use it, and Lőrinc Mészáros rents it; it probably pays HUF 15 million for nothing, or at least I asked you what you're paying for the other day. It's a very, very important question, but all you've answered is that that area belongs to your father and your father's company. The thing is, we're all telling the truth, so you're telling the truth, and I'm telling the truth, and it doesn't add up anyway, because your father owns this area, you use it, but for some reason, Lőrinc Mészáros pays 15 million forints a year. This HUF 15 million doesn't seem like a lot of money, but it's your prime minister's salary. It would certainly be good to know, especially because Lőrinc Mészáros has been among the richest people in Hungary in a few years, he practically acquired his wealth, and when asked what it was due to, he said to the good Lord. That would be okay, but he also said it was because of you. Then, if he pays your family HUF 15 million for something that he doesn't get anything for, then this is a very, very big problem, because he may pay that 15 million for 10 years, so that he is worth 150 million for these public procurements, this great luck. So my question is, what does Lőrinc Mészáros pay your father's company for? If you're using that area, what are you paying this money for? Thank you.
u2017-04-10-120	Thank you, Congressman Hadházy. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2017-04-10-121	The attractive opportunity for you to appoint me as spokesperson for the mayor of Felcsú, I cannot accept that right now. My advice to you is, if you're interested in any matter that I'm not personally involved in, you should always contact the people you're personally with instead of me. That's what I can advise you to do right now. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-122	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I'll give you the floor for rejoinder.
u2017-04-10-123	I'm very sorry, this is a very slow conversation, there were several months later, I asked you this the other day, then you didn't think of that answer, but the answer is not good, so I think it's very important and it's very important for the taxpayers to know how it's possible to get rich. Do this for the Hungarian people! How can one make a thousand times more, a thousand times more in a few years, and say that the good Lord - that's all right - says that he owes it to the Prime Minister. At a time like this, it's extremely dangerous, and I think that if this man pays your family 15 million forints that you use that area, and your father owns that area. It's very important to know. I'm telling you to figure out if there's 20 seconds left, figure out if you're gonna throw the tomato in the garden or use it for what it's gonna pay you 15 million forints, that's an extremely important question.
u2017-04-10-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Prime Minister in return.
u2017-04-10-125	Thank you for cheering for me. In any case, I can tell you once again that in a case that I am not personally involved in and concerns a private business, you should always contact those involved. I'm happy to answer any questions that apply to me, to me, or to the affairs of this country. In this case, which you have just brought up, I have no role to play. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-126	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Happy István, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: "Can I stop the world of my Lord-brother Jobbik?" It's an address. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] The Minister appointed Mr Pál Völner Secretary of State to answer the question because of his urgent public task. I'm asking if you'll take it. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I don't understand, because the Jobbik is very loud. [[Happy on István's signal:]] He'll take it. Thank you. The floor is Mr. István Happy.
u2017-04-10-127	Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In his opening speech last January, Gábor Vona announced that Jobbik will organise a genuine national consultation in 2016, which will focus on corruption in addition to health and education. In addition to VAT frauds or traff cases, Vona listed favoring friends and relatives as one of the most spectacular signs of corruption. For Jobbik's promises to be considered serious and credible, we just need to see how they have placed their own relatives in the last few years and how they have even put their wives on the order from the party fund of the Jobbik Group. [[Noise, noise, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] For example, Gábor Vona's wife, Krisztina Vona-Szabó, is the editor of the weekly paper, funded by Jobbik. Krisztina's brother, Judit Szabó, was for some time the head of the secretariat of Gábor Vona, his brother-in-law, and then Richard Forrai became assistant to the Institute of Directions, which also received money from Jobbik. Tamás Sneider's wife worked as a personal secretary at the faction; however, János Volner's head of the faction didn't miss him in the marital employment, and his wife didn't have to win an advisory contract from the Jobbik faction after the foundation of his company. Volner Beatrix's company founded in 2011 contracted the faction for oral counseling for half a million forints a month. Gábor Szabó Party Director Jobbik is an exception to the fact that he does not provide his wife but his father with income. For example, in 2012 György Szabó prepared a study on the current question of cemeteries for 610 thousand HUF. Dániel Z. Kárpát's mother and his 79-year-old grandmother received one million HUF from the party foundation for publishing books; while István Szávay's brother, László Szávay, signed 13 times with the Jobbik fraction for consulting, worth two million HUF. The line could continue for a long time. Because of the time limit, I ask you, is it possible to stop my brother Jobbik's world, Mr. Secretary of State? [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2017-04-10-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Honourable Congressman, In Jobbik's reply, it is always stated that they choose the best experts on a professional basis, who, of course, if they are related, are even more expert, as the readers have shown. This only makes you think about the future, because in Jobbik's 18 he wants to go to government, and where a car mechanic writes the party's traffic program - indeed, he's seen cars, so he can do everything. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] - But if he's even the best at cemeteries, because he's the father of the party manager, that's an excellent achievement. But aside from the ironic tone, it really makes me wonder that it is the sure way to become an expert on a party with radical roots like this, whose soul has already been taken away, as Mr. Party President said - we do not know who took it, Simicska is also mentioned, as we know - but they went in the direction of first becoming a relative and then getting a job and money. This is not encouraging for the future. All I can say is, in law, how much is objectionable, it's obvious if you reach the level of the crime and there are reports [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] the competent authorities would investigate it. So, I might be acquitted of Jobbik, they may not commit a crime, but in this whole story, the way they exploded into the Hungarian political public life, as they said, that jobs and opportunities allocated to relatives, acquaintances, are completely incompatible with their political views, but we also see that a fox has been introduced into a henhouse and everyone is running everywhere. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. In return, I give the floor to Congressman István Happy.
u2017-04-10-131	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I can see that Jobbik is also acting in the same way as on the issue of well-established political job accumulation, which has been constantly mentioned in the House by an ex-member who is not here, and then, when we brought in a conflict of interest law, we had a municipal election, and that their representatives are sitting at the same time in the municipalities and the county authorities, as well as mayors and county representatives. [[Dóra Dúró intervenes.]] So it's clear that they're turning on themselves on every issue. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] In fact, the question of whether or not they want to ban agency organisations from Hungary now, to eliminate them or not, to protect Hungarian people from migrants or not. [[13.50]] They face people, and every word they say is, unfortunately, when they get there to have a little chance, they do the opposite of what they promised to do to people. That's what you'll always expect from Jobbik. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Bravo!]]
u2017-04-10-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Secretary of State is also entitled to a rejoinder.
u2017-04-10-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to clarify what you just said. I mentioned that there are no investigations into these cases, even though there is a case. We all know the name of Béla Kovács here [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks.]] in Parliament, where the European Union Agency for Corruption is an agency, OLAF is conducting an investigation into fictitious employment. As a Member of the European Parliament, he also employed Jobbik's backgrounds and gave them jobs and money from EU funds. There, it seems, the authorities are a little more stringent, taking more seriously than the requirements that go towards ethics. We hope that the leadership and membership of Jobbik will also be achieved by this level of requirement. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-134	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Do you know, Prime Minister, what is the message of 1958? It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor.
u2017-04-10-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Prime Minister has done it again. He did not deny that Réka Szemerkényi, Ambassador of Hungary to Washington, was recalled in June. The question of one of the press's colleagues in this regard was that you smiled and said: "I don't care about women's affairs. In all of this, it has also become clear that you think this is a woman's affair, and that the occupation of women is not worthy of a prominent statesman like you. But János Lázár succeeded in increasing the situation in this regard on Thursday's government briefing, which he said to one question. Since then, Viktor Orbán has changed his position. Half the country is growing, which is why women need to be dealt with. Did you realize that Hungarian women have the right to vote? I have two things to tell you. First of all, with anyone, with any woman, the style you and you allow is unacceptable. Secondly, diplomatic relations between two countries are not a matter of women or men. If you don't take these questions seriously, it's you. You know, Prime Minister, I need to remind you of a speech you made here in Parliament in May 2014, after you took the Prime Minister's oath. Old teaching: What should be the first thing to do if you begin to govern? Answer: restoring the correct use of words. If the use of words is wrong, the meaning of thoughts is confusing. If the meaning of thoughts is confusing, it is not possible to act in a tailor-made manner. Therefore, the first thing that the government wants to do is to make its thoughts words words and words into words. Don't let your words get messy. It all depends on that, Prime Minister. Prime Minister! I call on you to apologize to all Hungarian women who have been offended by this sentence. Can you act like a statesman, Prime Minister? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-04-10-136	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2017-04-10-137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll always apologize to everyone I've hurt or offended, in which case, that's not the case. If I did, I can assure you that there are enough ladies at home to get rid of my ten nails. Instead, I would like to suggest to you that we speak with due respect about the Hungarian women, and I suggest that we acknowledge their work, and not in such a tone and not in such a way as you do. It would be a good time to give room for the work that they do outside the workplace in many economic calculations. I think that, in general, Hungarian politics could speak with more respect about women. I think that neither Fidesz nor the Christian Democratic People's Party have anything to be ashamed of in this regard. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Do you remember István Varga? Blind Komondo!]] We have always respected our grandparents, respected our parents, respected our spouse [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: You beat him well!]] And we respected our children. In this tone, I suggest that we talk about the situation of the ladies in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-138	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély in return.
u2017-04-10-139	Thank you, Mr. President. Prime Minister! You know what 1958's message is? You know what was in 1958? Brazil beat the Swedes to 5:2. And do you know the method? Which they forgot in 50. Pele scored three goals injured, he was 17 years old, and in the biography film about him, do you know what he said about it? Our differences make us beautiful. We Hungarian women are made beautiful by our diversity [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] but not only beautiful, but strong and invincible against such primitive male chauvinist behavior What you've been doing for the seventh year here in this Parliament. Thank you, Mr. President. (Applause in the lines of MSZP. )
u2017-04-10-140	Thank you very much. The rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister.
u2017-04-10-141	The answer would be appropriate, but I am not sure that it is necessary, because, if I understand correctly, the congresswoman has revealed the difference between her and me. But I can't deal with that, as a result of God's decision, you're a lady, and I'm a man. And there's one thing I can guarantee you, I'll always give you that respect, beyond what belongs to a person who deserves you because you're a lady. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-142	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Gábor Vona, a representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. The Prime Minister cannot be a national security risk. It's an address. Congressman Gábor Vona has the floor.
u2017-04-10-143	Mr. Prime Minister, A few weeks ago, I was wondering if you had the courage to say the sentence that I wasn't an agent, I never gave you a written report or a verbal report. Unfortunately, you didn't dare to say that sentence, you were wrong, it was an awkward moment for all of us in Parliament, and this question is still floating in the air. But there is another issue, which is also a cause for concern, Prime Minister, because a Prime Minister can be blackmailed not only with his distant past, but also with his recent and present. While the international situation is increasing and you are increasing here because of a university, while there is migration, there is terrorism, there is an economic crisis, there would be a huge threat to Hungary's national security if the Prime Minister could be blackmailed, say, by his finances. It would be a sort of internal political tragedy, Prime Minister, if, say, you, your family members, or your narrowest environment turned out to be a cover-up of financial or financial transactions abroad. Prime Minister, you have a year to live, and this time is relatively long. I would like to ask you to reassure the Hungarian public here in the Parliament and through it that, in the next year, what you have left, you, your family members, or your narrowest environment, that you have or have a hidden account abroad, or that you have or have an offshore fortune abroad, that you have or have hidden assets abroad, or that you have been involved in, or have been involved in, any confused and illegal or hidden financial transactions abroad. I ask you, Prime Minister, that, given the gravity of this issue, the concerns and fears of national security in this regard, do not try to circumvent the answer, do not try to ask yourself the question, but please pull yourself together, contrary to our recent immediate questions, and try to answer the question that I have asked you. The immediate question is whether I am asking questions and you are answering them, and my question is whether you, your family members and your narrowest environment have any hidden finances, assets or any confused financial operations abroad. Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-10-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2017-04-10-145	I can assure you, in that regard, you can sleep comfortably. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. István Apáti: So there is!]]
u2017-04-10-146	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. The congressman has a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2017-04-10-147	Prime Minister! I sleep peacefully every night, unlike you, and I feel like there's a big problem, because you think that here in Parliament, you can eliminate everything and sweep everything under the rug. Don't you realize, Prime Minister, this is ridiculous what you're doing. Did I become a politician by George Soros, or did you? Did Lajos Simicska make me Prime Minister three times, or did he make you? You have made Lajos Simicska prime minister, and do not try to project this problem on us, your struggle with your inner demons, and you will solve it yourself, and you will also make us the country, Prime Minister, please leave it out of it. You can read the Czechoslovak statement that Árpád Habony sweats out for you week after week. You can play poo-poo, poo-poo, poo-poo, poo-poo, poo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo! There are questions and answers. [[14.00]] And your job is to answer the question of whether you, your family members, or your tightest environment have any hidden assets. That's the question, and I'm asking you to say yes or no. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-10-148	Thank you very much. The rejoinder is due to the Prime Minister.
u2017-04-10-149	There is no doubt that the Hungarian Parliament will go far if you spend your time dealing with your master's whiskey-smelling questions sent in here instead of dealing with the country's issues. But I repeat, it is a sad fate to have a master, not his own. [[Intercoms and noise from Jobbik's benches.]] On the other hand, I would like to make it clear that Hungary is a country where elections are decided by voters. In fact, it is a country where voters can decide to replace a government. We, the members of the Fidesz and the Christian Democratic People's Party, can talk about both cases. There's one thing I can tell you. There may be some who are moved by George Soros, and some who are your masters. But we'll never be one of them. [[Dr. István Apáti: Yes or no?]] Fidesz and KNDP are a sovereign party, we represent only the interests of the Hungarian people, and we always respect all laws in accordance with our oath. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-10-150	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, István Hollik, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. [[Dr. László Kács: I wouldn't be in your shoes right now!]] I ask Mr Hollik if he will accept the State Secretary Pál Völner asked for an answer. [[For signal:]] It says yes. [[Dr. László Kács: Cross questions.]] It is for Congressman István Hollik.
u2017-04-10-151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Here in Parliament, too, we have repeatedly spoken about the most outrageous judgment of the Strasbourg Court in the case of two Bangladeshi migrants. I would now like to draw your attention to a remarkable link in the merger between the Strasbourg court and the pro-immigration organisations. It seems that György Soros's pro-immigration people are at both ends of the line in the migrant business. On one side, there are Soros organisations that support and work towards mass immigration and even seek migrants who can be legally represented. On the other hand, there are the people of Soros sitting in the Strasbourg court, such as András Sajó, one of the founders of the Soros University, who, as a judge in Strasbourg, will ensure that the pro-immigration position is supported by the court. I would like to draw your attention to two facts concerning the judgment that have not been known to date. On the one hand, the Strasbourg court based this decision largely on reports prepared by the Hungarian Helsinki Committee that represented the two Bangladeshi migrants in the case. I think this is incompatible. On the other hand, András Sajó was himself a member of the Advisory Board of the Hungarian Helsinki Committee. So there was a direct link between him and the organisation representing migrants in this case. On the basis of the above, Mr Secretary, I have two questions. Don't you think that András Sajó's direct contact with the Helsinki Commission is a circumstance that raises the issue of conflict of interest? In other words, how much fine did the Strasbourg court impose on Hungary for complying with its rules? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-10-152	Thank you very much, Congressman Hollik. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2017-04-10-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, To the questions raised by you, if we were to talk about the Hungarian court and the Hungarian court order, I could give you correct and identifiable answers. Indeed, it is unthinkable in Hungary that a person who has been involved in an earlier stage of the procedure, working for the expert, can then be presented as a litigator or the opinion of the representatives of the party to the trial should not be taken into account as an expert. It is also an interesting fact that the judge delegated by the Gyurcsány Government in Strasbourg has never reported conflicts of interest, with the exception of virtually one case, so it is true that neither in the cases dealt with by the Helsinki Commission nor specifically in the case in which the Helsinki Commission was represented, nor even when it was a matter of Hungary v. Helsinki Commission. The only case was Judge Baka's case, by the way, in which he announced it. The selection mechanism for judges is also interesting, where we know that the government may have delegated it, but today it can only be decided on public tenders, although there is no legislation on this. It is also unusual for the court to operate in terms of practically forcing states to legislate, so let us consider the question of prison congestion. But also in response to his question on the financial part: Hungary has paid 4 billion HUF 361 million for the period before and after 2003, i.e. HUF 893 thousand for our entry in 93 due to various procedures, of which almost HUF 2 billion for the proceedings, which is obviously not related to this government's activities. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-10-154	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Hollik has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2017-04-10-155	Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State. This confirms that the Strasbourg court is working against Hungary instead of dealing with the real protection of human rights. He worked against Hungary when in 2008 he allowed the red star to wear to a communist man, despite Hungarian laws, and even sentenced Hungary to punishment. He also worked against Hungary when the socialists sided with socialist criminals in their corruption cases and awarded them compensation. Remember, you awarded Miklós Hagyó nearly HUF 4 million for the inconvenience with the prison cell. [[György Balla: Shame!]] I think that this is outrageous, and we are asking the Government not to pay the HUF 2.7 million litigation costs imposed by the Court of Strasbourg to the Helsinki Committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-10-156	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder.
u2017-04-10-157	Honourable Congressman, As we have said on the government's side, we are going to the Grand Chamber on this case, so no payment will be made. We hope that the previous decision will not be confirmed by the Grand Chamber, taking due account of the facts. What we can say here in relation to the cases is that it has become a sort of business to carry out matters in Strasbourg. There are law firms that, for example, would like to add millions of forints to the taxpayers' money by standing on the prison crowd, starting with György Magyar, who would systematically act against the Hungarian state. And the part that the Member mentioned is that, in cases where the infringement was clearly committed, the proceedings are carried out on the same terms as the will of the majority of society, there have been compensations for various reasons for left-wing politicians. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-10-158	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, Benedek Sallai and Bernadett Szél, the representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: Why is the government afraid of the referendum on enlargement? Mr Bernadett Szél, Madam Head of the Group, has the floor.
u2017-04-10-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, By order, we hear from Fidesz that you are direct authorized by the people to conduct your decisions, often saying that you have received two-thirds. However, there is an investment here in Hungary today, for which you have never been authorized, and for a good century, it will certainly determine the future of the Hungarian people. I would like to make it clear that this was not the decision of the Hungarian people in 14 years. If we had decided that, they wouldn't be on government, let alone two thirds of them, but they wouldn't be on government. I would like to say that the government would have had the opportunity and even had an obligation to consult the Hungarian people on the expansion of Paks. The fair one, in my view, Prime Minister, would have been if they had done so before the treaty, but it is still not too late. In this connection, I would like to ask you four questions. Mr. Prime Minister, Do you acknowledge that one of Hungary's most serious decisions in the next hundred years is the Paks enlargement? I would also like to know whether you acknowledge that the Hungarian people have to decide on such matters. [[János Lázár is addressed to Viktor Orbán.]] Mr. Prime Minister, If Mr. Lazarus may stop briefing, he can listen to me. Do you agree with what the National Election Committee states that this question is too complicated for the Hungarian people to decide? Because that's what the National Election Committee, Mr. Prime Minister, is saying. And I would also like to know from you, Prime Minister, whether you insist on expanding Paks even if the Hungarian people clearly oppose it. So my question is whether Fidesz-KDNP is prepared to face the clear will of the Hungarian people.
u2017-04-10-160	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. [[14.10]]
u2017-04-10-161	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Fidesz and the Christian Democratic People's Party have also played open cards in this regard, which is what we always do. The basic agreement on the Paks investment was deliberately concluded before the 2014 parliamentary elections, and we discussed it before it here in this House, just in order that no one at election 14 can say that they do not know what the energy policy of the Fidesz and Christian Democratic People's Party for governance is. We played with open cards, we presented everything, and we deliberately separated the financial contract from the conclusion of the treaty, just so that if the elections were to be decided otherwise, the government after us would not be ready. The contract was concluded before the election, we discussed it here; the financial contract was already concluded on the basis of the mandate given in the election. I think this is a fair procedure, and I think that our current behaviour is therefore a precise reflection of the will of the Hungarian people. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-162	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I'll give you a return answer.
u2017-04-10-163	Mr. Prime Minister, If you believe that Hungarian voters support this investment to this extent, why not keep our mouths shut with a referendum? Why don't you let this referendum happen? You can write this out on your own. But you can put it out by the President of the Republic. There is no open paper here, Prime Minister. After today, when your people have deliberately rendered the National Security Committee's meeting inoperable, when we are talking about a Yandex scandal, when we are talking about a Hungarian-Iran nuclear pact, when we are talking about this Paks enlargement, which does not take place with open pages, but there are 11,000 pages in a cellar under a ministry that cannot be properly looked into, so I think, Prime Minister, that the question is no longer what you are committed to and what you are not, but what is the name of the Prime Minister of this country. What's the Prime Minister's name, Vladimir or Viktor, Prime Minister? So please, if you do not agree with what I am saying, and if you agree that the Hungarian people support this investment, then shut up with a referendum! Write it down.
u2017-04-10-164	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister shall also have a rejoinder.
u2017-04-10-165	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to point out that despite obvious and repeated requests, I am not willing to keep the congresswoman's mouth shut. [[Defiance.]] On the contrary, I would like to reiterate our position that Fidesz supports nuclear energy. We also support renewable energies. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Tax!]] but we believe that the Hungarian people cannot pay for renewable energies, and today we see that not only today, but in the foreseeable future, the cheapest energy will be nuclear energy, and we therefore believe that both the reduction of Hungarian families and the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy are closely linked to the price of Hungarian energy, its production method and form. [[Zoltán Grimlock: And we will radiate with joy.]] And among our options, the Paks nuclear power plant seems to be the most reasonable and cheapest. This is in Hungary's interest. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] I'm sorry...
u2017-04-10-166	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Here. I need the voice back. There's still time.
u2017-04-10-167	I forgot to tell you that in the next few days, I will appoint a Minister without a wallet to join forces and manage the investment of the Paks power plant. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Zoltán Grimlock: The Butcher?]]
u2017-04-10-168	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Péter Csizi, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. Did you know about the biggest bus theft of MSZP Hungary? It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás to respond. I'll ask Congressman if he'll take it. [[For signal:]] It says yes. Congressman Péter Csizi has the floor.
u2017-04-10-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, It's hard to imagine what it's like to have a hand-written account with an amount of almost HUF 2.5 billion. We in Pécs remember this hand-written account very well, with which eight years ago, the bus park in Pécs, consisting of 150 vehicles, was leased from the same company for 2 billion 436 million forints, to whom it sold for nearly the same amount a few weeks before. [[He's showing me the magnified certificate. Mr. Zoltán Gőêgös to the President: Demonstrial, Mr. President.]] Dear Secretary of State, [[Zoltán Grimlock: Is your eye bad that you need such paper?]] The company got to the city bus park without any money being made. I'm not a law-abiding man, so I'm relying on the final judgment of the Zalaegerszeg Tribunal, which stated that there was practically a fake contract, in other words, theft. By the way, the transaction meant a tax burden of two billion dollars to the Pécs, and in addition to all this, it led to a near collapse of the entire bus transport. In recent years, we have won all the important lawsuits, and with the new urban service provider and its development, we have been able to secure bus transport for 56,000 people on a daily basis. Now the question is timely, the question of the Pécs is timely, whether the Hungarian Socialist Party led the city. We are living in the time when Mayor Péter Tasnádi was already in the hospital, Bertalan Tóth was the city's number one deputy mayor, so I ask Mr. Secretary of State whether you believe that the deputy mayor of a city is legally responsible for the irresponsible squandering of the asset park in his hands. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-170	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Before I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás, I must warn Mr. Congressman that Parliamentary Act 38/A. According to Article 5 of the Act, the application for an illustration must be submitted in advance not later than one hour before the meeting of the House Committee. I ask you to consider this in the future. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás to answer.
u2017-04-10-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The task of the police is to guarantee the safety of people's lives and property. It's the police's job to investigate corruption cases. Our starting point is clearly that Hungary is a rule of law, and as such, no one can be above the law, everyone who breaks the laws and laws must bear the consequences of his actions. On 17 July 2009, the Department of Economic Protection of the Baranya County Police Department ordered an investigation into the matter, based on the complaint by Dr. Zsolt Páva, Mayor of the City of Pécs County. The police investigated Pécsi Közlekedési Zrt. for suspicion of a criminal offence, which caused a particularly significant financial disadvantage. and PK Buszrent Kft. In the context of its contract concluded on 1 January 2009, for which this invoice was then completed. The investigating authority concluded the proceedings on 7 September 2010 with an indictment proposal, and the Baranya County Attorney General's Office filed charges on 30 September 2010. According to a transcript from the Baranya County Attorney General's Office, Zrt. In proceedings against his CEO, the Court of First Instance declared him guilty in repeated proceedings, and sentenced him to two years in execution of four years of probation and four years of office as head of company. The sentence did not rise to legal force, because both the Attorney General and the defendant's defender filed an appeal, but the defendant unfortunately died before the second degree hearing on 20 March 2016, so the Pécs Court decided to terminate the second instance procedure. Honourable Congressman, Obviously, we cannot tolerate any form of corruption in Hungary, our aim is to take action against all such phenomena. We have the necessary legal background for this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman Chizi.
u2017-04-10-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I believe that if the leader of the socialist faction knew about the billionaire bus theft in Pécs, then you are part of the crime. If you didn't know, then you're an incompetent leader. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Don't decide that, we choose that.]] In the last few days we have heard about Metro 4 in Budapest, about Szeviép in connection with Szeged and about the theft of a billion-dollar bus in Pécs. Almost all major cities led by socialists have scandals. I believe in the same way that the socialists are unable to run a city the size of Pécs, they are unfit to run the country. And of course, I'll attach my installation to the record. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You can't do that, there's no such thing!]] Just like we sent the original to the court, by the way. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[14.20]]
u2017-04-10-174	Thank you very much. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the Secretary of State.
u2017-04-10-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, The Orbán government has announced zero tolerance for corruption, and we are not only talking about corruption, but we are also acting. Since the establishment of the Fidesz-KDNP government, it has implemented the most intensive anti-corruption measures in the last 20 years. I have to mention, in particular, that the National Defence Service started operating in 2011 and is operating as a new type of internal crime prevention and crime investigation police body. As of 2014, it will also coordinate government tasks related to anti-corruption activities. Clearly, it is very difficult to restore public confidence at a time when the country's biggest corruption scandal in connection with the investment of Metro 4 has been refocused or proven. Our goal is to expose all corruption activities. If new data on the bus fleet in Pécs are available, the police will take the necessary steps. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-176	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Szakács, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Is the sovereignty of the country in danger? It's an address. Mr László Csakács has the floor.
u2017-04-10-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, From here, President György Matolcsy told us about the pulpit in his expozee that Hungary was attacked in the second half of 2014 and in the first half of 2015 by the Embassy of a NATO Alliance Member State in Budapest, on the basis of military and secret service scenarios, which aimed at the government failure through the central bank. We asked György Matolcsy twice, here in Parliament, what could have been behind these words, what facts he knew, because your faction never once supported György Matolcsy coming to any committee meeting, and there he could tell himself in his own words what he thought. Well, here he told us, but we didn't get any smarter because he quoted first from a Hungarian Orange article - I don't think that's what it was, by the way - and later he said that a fellow party knew only that it was about the Americans, the Embassy of the United States of America, and then he said that Lajos Kósa knew this in fact, and he quoted it from him, and then finally because he gave all these answers, he said that everyone really knew, but I didn't know that it was the United States of America. All these answers obviously can't be true. I think that the stability of the Hungarian financial system is a very, very important issue of Hungarian sovereignty, and if this has been attacked, then I think that we can ask questions calmly, and we can also learn the data that is available, and we must learn from them, and of course make proposals. But Matolcsy's words remained in the air, so I ask Prime Minister if he can tell me anything else about this other than what György Matolcsy said, it is true that he is very confused. Was this very important element of Hungarian sovereignty in danger? Thank you for your attention.
u2017-04-10-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2017-04-10-179	It would be cheap for me to refer your question to my colleague Hadházy right now, saying that it is not my job to deal with the interpretation of conversations outside of me, but I think your question is a serious question, and I would like to thank you for putting it with the same seriousness. If he had raised his question to the President of the Central Bank, of course I would not be able to respond in such a cooperative way, because for us, the status of the President of the Central Bank is inviolable and we will always protect the independence of the President of the Central Bank and the status of the Central Bank. So don't expect us to open up any kind of political attack here. On the other hand, the question you asked is extremely important. As far as the past is concerned, I would like to say to you that such an experiment has taken place several times, and I think that there is an ongoing attempt to influence Hungary. When the degree of influence is of what magnitude, it always requires an appropriate analysis. This type of manipulation experiments are regularly from the direction of each of the four directions. But there's nothing extraordinary about that. I think that in the modern world, this is a necessary part of political existence, of state existence. As far as the past is concerned, I can tell you that the strength of the attack on the financial side is always dependent on how exposed the situation of Hungary is to our current dispute. Hungary was extremely exposed to foreign financial markets in 2010 and 11 and 12 and therefore Hungary's sovereignty could be easily and influenced from this side. However, the situation has changed. You can see that our exposure has been significantly reduced. There are attempts to limit sovereignty, but the significant ones do not come from the financial sector today. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-180	Thank you, Prime Minister. In a moment, Mr. Cook will have the floor in return.
u2017-04-10-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, I was also sure that I could ask the Prime Minister about sovereignty. But the central bank president made a statement about the fact that he was telling me about the brokerage scandal. And now let us ignore the fact that he talked about Peter Róna, violins and everything. This may be the past, but it is not the past for many tens of thousands of people. There are tens of thousands of victims of these cases and hundreds of billions of forints. We initiated, therefore, precisely to stand up a case-by-case committee and answer four questions: who attacked the country, by what means did they attack the country, by what means did they eliminate it, and in 2017 does this danger still exist? Your faction doesn't support that. It does not support the inclusion of this issue on the agenda in the Economic Committee, which is a standing committee. Why, Prime Minister? That's my question.
u2017-04-10-182	Thank you very much. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Prime Minister.
u2017-04-10-183	I see the conduct of our faction as reasonable and correct in this matter, so you made the right choice when you rejected this request. These are struggles with national security. I think we need to be careful what section of this kind of struggle we open to the public. I would like to reiterate that this is ongoing, so this is not a series of events linked to a given moment, but this is a necessary part of state existence in the modern age. I would also like to report to you and this House that we have successfully eliminated this type of experiment so far. I think it will be worth talking about this in public if we do not succeed. I hope that doesn't happen. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-184	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, This concludes the instant questioning session, and I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. (Sunning: 14.28 - 14 33) President: Mr Sándor Lezsák Note: Dr. István Tiba and István Szávay)
u2017-04-10-185	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Please take your seats. A political debate on reducing wage differences between the Member States of the European Union, initiated by Gábor Vona and his fellow Members. [[It's grumpy. The president's ringing the bell.]] With all due respect, my fellow Members, please take your seats. [[A moment's pause.]] With all due respect, my fellow Members, please take your seats. Thank you very much. The motion to initiate the political debate V/14429. was given to them. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I would ask Mr István Szávay to explain the course of the political debate and, with respect, my fellow Members, to take their seats again. Mr. Messenger!
u2017-04-10-186	Dear Parliament, First, a statement by representatives of the Government will take place for a total period of 40 minutes. The speakers of each political group will then speak in 15-15 minutes. Then the first independent Member may speak. The remaining time frame will then be open to further speeches by its representatives. Finally, the representative of the Government will respond in 20 minutes to what has been said in the debate.
u2017-04-10-187	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Allow me to remind you of the main rules of the time-frame debate. The speaking time of the member of the Government who spoke during the debate is expected to be in the time of the pro-government factions. In the meantime, two-minute speeches, with the exception of responding to personal concerns, should be included in the timeframe. Point of order speeches are not included in the time frame. I would like to inform you that, if the EP representative made his statement through the head of the group, his speech will be included in the speaking time of the group which announced it as a speaker. Where he has made a direct application, his statement shall not be included in the time frame and shall be granted a speaking time equal to the speaking time per independent Member. On the meeting room information board, interested parties can monitor the use of time frames. Before we begin the debate, I would like to ask Mr István Tiba to explain the time frame.
u2017-04-10-188	Dear Parliament, I would like to announce that all political groups have taken the initiative to double their timeframe, so the distribution of the time frame is as follows. The Fidesz Group has 164 minutes, 90 minutes for the MSZP Group, 76 minutes for the KDNP Group, 82 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 48 minutes for the LMP Group and 10 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2017-04-10-189	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, First, the government will launch a debate in a 40-minute time frame, which will be presented by two speakers. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy.
u2017-04-10-190	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, For the last time, we met in the framework of such a debate last November, when, like our topic today, the labour shortage was on the table. I hope that today's debate will be in the spirit of real dialogue, as we are discussing a matter that directly or indirectly concerns society as a whole. Everyone who works is interested in achieving the highest possible level of wages, and one of the most important economic questions for their family, including their children, is how much goes into the family register every month. And anyone who does not want to work, but wants to work, should not be indifferent to how he will be able to finance his costs from his future wage, to cover anything from the amount received in addition to his primary needs, whether the consideration he receives for his work is sufficient to ensure a decent life, to establish a family. Wages are therefore everyone's concern, and I sincerely hope that today's political debate can bring us closer to understanding the processes that increase the chances of wage catch-up and also indicate what has happened in recent years. I sincerely hope that, by the end of this debate day, we will be able to achieve a constructive dialogue to provide realistic answers, among other things, to these issues. First of all, let me point out that the answer to the question raised must not start directly by examining the wage level. In order to pay adequate wages, it is necessary, on the one hand, to have the right economic conditions and, on the other hand, to have jobs capable of paying the wage of the required quality to the worker. Thirdly, there is a need for workers who can carry out the given task. Only after these issues have been clarified will we be able to have a meaningful exchange of views on wages and wage catch-up. The starting point of the government is that the nation's prosperity can only be founded by building a work-based society. It should be clear to the members of society that prosperity, access to one from one to two can only be achieved through work and hard work. Obviously, the first and most important factor is to have an adequate number of posts. This is why, following the 2010 change of government, the civilian government has announced a significant expansion of employment in its programme. [[14.40]] During the ten years, the intention to create a significant number of new jobs was received not only by the political opposition but also by the professional public. Let us, however, see where we are now in achieving this ambitious goal. I do not want to bore you with statistics, so I will just briefly mention some data on employment and unemployment. According to the latest data of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office in early 2017, the number of employees increased to nearly 4 million 400 thousand, while the number of unemployed fell to about 200,000. Since the change of regime, employment has never been so high and unemployment in Hungary is so low. Since 2010, the economic activity of the population aged 15-64 has increased at the fastest rate in Hungary from among the countries of the European Union, but we are also among the first four countries in terms of increasing employment and reducing unemployment. The key factor in increasing employment was the increase in the number of jobs in the market. More than two thirds of the employment growth of 662 thousand since the government change in 2010, 461 thousand people have been located in the domestic competition sector. The latest figures show that the overall increase in the number of employees observed in the last year has taken place in the primary labour market, where there has been a 144,000 increase in the number of people in one year, due to intensive job creation in the competitive sphere. On the other hand, the number of public workers is already 14,000, and the number of commuters abroad has shown a fall of 1,000 in the last year. All of this can be seen as very positive developments in the labour market. The role of the government in such a dynamic growth in employment cannot be taken away, no matter how much anyone wants to minimize it. Until the competitive sphere was able to create a sufficient number of new jobs, it was absolutely justified to increase public employment, which was also a great help to those affected by the fact that they could go to work every day instead of being inactive. This, in addition to increasing their self-esteem, served well the long-term objective of maintaining and even increasing the chances of their return to the primary labour market. On the basis of the increasing demand for labour in the competitive sphere, we have reached the turning point that from 2017 the role of public employment can be reduced, on which the government has already taken measures. In addition, the efforts made by the government to preserve jobs and create jobs in the competitive sector should not be underestimated. I would like to mention two things about this. Firstly, from 1 January 2013 we have been able to facilitate the employment of those disadvantaged from a labour market point of view, such as young people, small children, those with low education and the elderly, by means of targeted tax incentives introduced in the framework of the job protection action. Here, the primary aim of the benefits is to encourage employment, provided by employers' tax incentives for workers in the target groups. From 2013 until January 2017 employers could use a total of HUF 508 billion in job protection in the competition sector, with the validated tax relief increasing year by year, reaching HUF 142 billion in 2016. In January 2017, job protection benefits in the business sector helped to employ 871-872 thousand workers. At the beginning of the year, the number of workers employed with a discount increased by 16,400 and 1.9 percent compared to the same period of the previous year. The other area where the government played a significant role in creating jobs was the promotion of foreign investment. These investments have created jobs with high productivity and largely advanced work culture. The people working here have got a job and, by spending the wages earned, they have largely strengthened the domestic consumer market. In addition, the Hungarian budget was increased by paying taxes and contributions on wages, and without investments, suppliers' nets that offer additional workers a livelihood could not have been built up. It is also due to the impressive improvement in employment indicators and the availability of full employment that we can put the issue of wages in a new light. Dear Parliament, In the light of the above, I would now like to report on the progress that the Government has made and helped to achieve in terms of wage growth. As I have already indicated, in a functioning market economy, wage increases depend on economic opportunities, so wages are essentially determined by the bargaining of market players, businesses and employees and employers. In this process, the government can play its part directly by setting the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage and, on a transfer, by reducing taxes. In addition, of course, in the non-market sector, i.e. the public sector, the government can determine wages directly or through legislation. When raising the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, the government relies heavily on the opinion of the social partners and seeks to establish minimum mandatory wages on the basis of an agreement with them, i.e. by consensus. The gross minimum wage between 2010 and 18 will increase from HUF 73 500 to HUF 138 thousand and the guaranteed minimum wage from HUF 89 500 by 102 per cent to HUF 180 500, given the multi-annual agreement concluded between the government and the social partners in November 2016. Meanwhile, these eight years are low, 17 percent inflation. On the other hand, during the 8 years 2002-2010, the gross amount of the minimum wage increased by only 47 per cent, while inflation was higher by 51 per cent. The net amount of the minimum wage will also depend on the number of dependent children as of 2011, so that the net wage for low-income family workers has increased significantly more than for non-children compared to 2010. The real value of the minimum wage increased to a minimum between 2002 and 2010 and even decreased to childish workers, as the socialist government essentially abolished the tax relief for children. Compared to this, after 2010, there has been a steady increase in families with children each year, and the real wages of single minimum wage workers will increase from 2012 onwards. Trade unions supported and signed without exception an agreement including a significant increase in the minimum wage for 2017, 2018 as they intend to achieve the minimum net amount of the minimum wage for a single person by 2018. In fact, I would like to stress that the minimum wage has been increased by the government to a greater extent than the demands of trade unions. In addition, it can be said that the net amount of the minimum wage for two dependent children exceeds 100 thousand forints already this year, and in 2018 this will be achieved for one child. An increase in the guaranteed minimum wage - or, as usual, the minimum wage for skilled workers - is one of the cornerstones of the six-year agreement. It can contribute to reducing labour shortages, keeping skilled workers at home, and it also serves to catch up with the pay levels of the V4 because at this level of education, we have the biggest wage gap. The increase in the difference between the minimum wage and the public employment wage started in 2016 to strengthen the labour attractiveness of the primary labour market. In 2017, the difference between the net value of the two wage levels increased by HUF 9340 per month, to HUF 30 600, while the amount of public employment wages increased by 3 per cent above the expected inflation rate. [[14.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, Now I'd like to say a few words about our own house, the wage measures in the public sector. Under its own responsibility, the government can take direct wage measures in the public sector, so in order to increase the financial appreciation of public service workers, we have taken significant steps in recent years and are taking responsible steps, within the framework of economic performance and budgetary equilibrium. The government does not implement wage-raising programmes in the public sector generally, but focuses on one area. On the one hand, in a number of sectors, it has developed and developed career careers and on the other hand, it has introduced more wage measures. Among these, the health and social sectors must be highlighted. In the healthcare sector, in 2012-13, we have already increased the pay of the workers and doctors by an average of 27 percent on average. On the basis of the agreement reached in the context of collective wage negotiations in the sector, another large-scale multi-annual wage increase programme was launched in 2016, resulting in a total doubling of around 98 thousand health workers' wages by 2019 compared to 2011 which is an unprecedented step in the history of Hungarian health care. The government is committed to giving both financial and moral appreciation for the very difficult work done by workers in the social sector. Compared to 2013, average wages in the social sector will increase by 62 percent in 2018, including around one third in the next two years, covering around 90 thousand people. Significant wage measures have been and are still ongoing in other areas of the public sector. Just take a few examples, consider the teaching career model introduced in 2013 or the career models launched in 2015 in law enforcement and defence. But here we should mention in public education the settlement of salaries for educators and academics, workers in the cultural sector and public officials, or for teachers in higher education. Dear Parliament, I can also report serious progress in the growth of real earnings. The annual minimum wage and guaranteed wage increases, public wage increases and wage increases in the competitive sector, where the government has no direct impact on wage developments, the tax reduction and the low inflation have resulted in an average increase of 17.9 percent in real earnings between 2010 and 16 percent in the national economy, taking into account the family discount. The increase in real earnings in six years, together with the family discount, is 10 percentage points higher than the increase in real earnings in the eight years 2003-2010 under more favourable economic conditions of 13.8 percent. Thanks to the introduction of the family discount in 2011 and its extension in 2014, the increase in real earnings among workers with children in the last six years has been significantly higher than average, thus the real earnings of family workers have increased by 22.4 percent for a child, by 31.2 percent for two children and by 51.2 percent for three children. The average real earnings of the private sector workers increased by 29 percent, while the public sector workers who had been counted without public employment increased by 25 percent in the six years between 2010 and 16 compared with 18.2% in the competition sector and 7.7 percent in the public sector during the eight years between 2002 and 2010. Real earnings have increased steadily from the beginning of 2013, month to month, so in January 2017, net real earnings have increased steadily for 49 months. Following a rapid growth in employment, the changed labour market situation has allowed the government to contribute to the recovery of wages in Europe. In November 2016, the Government concluded a comprehensive agreement with employers' and employees' representatives to promote wage increases and tackle labour shortages, in which the parties committed themselves to improving the competitiveness of the economy, increasing wages and at the same time reducing the burden on wages. The burden on actions and the reduction of corporate income tax will give rise to further increases in wages while maintaining the competitiveness of businesses. A significant increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage accelerates the catch-up process, which is also enhanced by not only affecting employees at the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, as the salaries of those with higher earnings should also be increased in order to maintain previous wage differentials. Higher wages provide a further boost to further increase in activity, an increase in the willingness to work, as labour income increases significantly. Wage increases are also an important step towards achieving the final objective of public employment programmes, since higher minimum wages make access to the primary labour market more attractive than lower public wage. Wage catching up can also help address the problem of emigration, as well as a well-educated, talented labour force has less recourse to employment abroad and can also contribute to the return of those who work abroad. As a result of the agreement signed in November 2016 with trade unions and employers' representatives, real wages may increase by up to 40% over the next six years. The impact of the wage agreement is already evident in the January 2017 HCSO data, since gross and net average earnings at national level were 10 percent higher and real earnings were 7.5 percent higher than a year ago with moderate inflation. In part, in the context of an increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, public companies also have significant wage developments. For this purpose, the budget will provide additional support for a total of 30 per cent of wage development over the three-year period 2017-2019. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's stop for a moment and look at the Hungarian wages in an international comparison! The difference in wage levels is undoubtedly one of the reasons why many people are looking for work in countries with higher wage levels. However, it is necessary to note that, even if we look at Europe alone, labour migration based on different wage levels is not only a Hungarian phenomenon, and it is also a fact that even between the old Member States the balance of wage levels has not been achieved, despite the free movement of labour for a longer period. In terms of employee income, wage measurement at purchasing power parities gives a realistic picture of comparison between different countries. This shows, in a comparable way, how much goods and services can be purchased from the wage earned in each country within that country. In terms of purchasing power, Hungary has increased the minimum wage to a minimum from the Visegrád countries between 2002 and 2010, i.e. under socialist governance. This trend took place in 2010, when we were the top riders with Poland until 2016. With the 15 percent increase in 2017 Hungary was the only one at the forefront of the growth since 2010. Of the EU-22, our country is ranked fifth in the growth ranking at purchasing power parities, and after the post-2010 period, a higher increase was made only by Bulgaria, Romania, Estonia and Lithuania over the seven years. As a result of significant progress in minimum wage increases since 2010, Hungary is ranked 14th among 22 countries on the basis of the minimum wage level in January 2017. This puts us in the middle of the countries, and we prevent neighbouring countries. This means that after 2010, we managed to prevent the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Croatia. Eurostat will provide data on Member States' actions by 2015. This means that Hungarian wages have increased significantly more in purchasing power parities since 2010 than in the target countries that are important for Hungarians to work abroad, such as Germany, Austria or the United Kingdom. As a result, a significant approximation to German, Austrian and British wages was achieved in the purchasing power parities over a period of five years. Our catch-up compared to the Germans and Austrians was 3-4 percentage points, and compared to the British, it was about 10 percentage points over the five years. There was a similar level of catch-up in these destinations between 2004 and 2010. [[15.00]] In relation to the V4 it can be concluded that we have improved our position in terms of purchasing power compared to the Czech Republic and Slovakia between 2010 and 2015. With regard to the Visegrád countries, the new government has inherited a negative situation, which has been improved since 2010, with the exception of the Polish approach. As a result of the strong wage dynamic last year, 2016 can be seen as a turning point, which could mean a stronger wage catch-up within our region and in our wider environment. The multi-annual wage agreement concluded at the end of last year is another significant incentive for wage growth, and if the expected increase in real wages is 40 per cent over the next six years, it will be another decisive step towards catching up with developed countries. Dear Parliament, We must see that we, as members of the European Union, are affected by the initiatives that the European Union has taken in the area of wage setting. Reducing the wage gap between the Member States of the European Union is obviously desirable for all Member States, but such initiatives raise fundamental issues from an economic policy, structural policy and budgetary point of view. It is also necessary to take into account the impact on macroeconomic and fiscal policy, as these are significant competitiveness issues. Strengthening sustainable economic growth and productivity is a key issue for the future of the European Union and Hungary as well. Artificially increasing the level of benefits without proportionate economic performance could undermine the economic stability of many Member States. In our view, there is no single European social model because Member States are characterised by diversity. We believe that the social dimension must be fully consistent with the single market. The more economically backward Member States will not be pushed up by the social standards applicable to all Member States, as only maintaining competitiveness and increasing employment will lead to economic growth. We believe that catching up will be made possible by ensuring fair competition and equal access to the internal market. The demand for equal pay does not lead to equal pay. As a result, businesses in the new Member States are excluded from the internal market because they would not be able to produce the required wages, so the jobs of Hungarian workers would cease. Meanwhile, these countries would be forced to raise taxes, which would cause further competitive disadvantages for our countries. Of course, the capital-powered businesses in the old Member States do not have a problem with paying higher levels of wages, and at the same time they would be able to get rid of their competitors in Central and Eastern Europe. According to the Hungarian position, the Union cannot impose an obligation to pay. The increase in Hungarian wages, due to the improvement of our position vis-à-vis other countries, is in our fundamental interest that the determination of wages should remain national in all respects. Ladies and gentlemen, The improvement in the employment situation and wage increases have been significantly facilitated by the government's tax reduction measures. In recent years, a number of measures have been introduced in the tax system to support families and businesses. In 2010, the government decided to change the previous Sija system and introduce a 16 percent single-key tax and further reduce the burden on labour, reducing the change rate to 15 percent in 2016. As a result, wages in Hungary are also subject to a very low wage rate in the EU comparison. On the other hand, during the time of left-wing governments, the key was extremely high. In 2003, the upper rate was 40 per cent, 38 per cent in 2004 and 2005, then 36 per cent between 2006 and 2009 and 40 per cent in 2010 taking into account the incomprehensible super-grossing. Since 2010, the government has developed a system of labour taxation which is, in principle, completely linear, but which provides targeted support for the employment of the most disadvantaged workers in the framework of the work plan, and takes account of the number of family dependants in personal income tax and individual contributions through family benefits. As a result of the transformation of the tax system, the percentage of employer and employee withdrawals in excess income fell below 50 per cent in all income categories. This means that, at present, the tax system does not penalise additional work, wage increases, nor does it encourage the concealment of incomes, as opposed to the tax system applying the previous progressive key. At the time of left-wing governments, in 2009, the average tax wedge was more than 53 percent, and even the steeply rising progressive tax rates were even more severe than the average wage. Contrary to opposition parties, the government does not plan to increase the tax burden on labour, and, in fact, according to the agreement between the government and the permanent consultative forum of the competition sector, the work-related public costs will be continuously reduced between 2017 and 2022. Thus, a six-year tax reduction programme was launched in 2017 to reduce employers' wage tax by over half by 15.5 percentage points if wage growth plans are implemented. Dear Parliament, Finally, let me draw your attention once again to the fact that it makes sense to talk about wages when there is a sufficient number of jobs in the economy, a sufficient number of skilled workers and job seekers and an employer capable of paying the right wage. As I said the other day, we have made no small success in increasing employment and reducing unemployment significantly. Now we need to focus our attention on how we can take further joint steps to further increase the wage level in Hungary. That is what today is about, and I wish everyone very, very good work, and thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-191	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, you have 10 minutes and 10 seconds. Mr. Secretary.
u2017-04-10-192	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If I understand the intention of today's debate, the intention of the initiators, then today we will be talking about wage increases, the intention of raising wages, and I think that we can even agree on this goal. However, as I will say later, in terms of means, there is far from much agreement between us. Let me start with the raise. Above all, it is worth considering what makes wage increases possible. The main thing is that the economy is growing and that people have jobs. In this respect, it is not an incidental fact that up to 4 percent economic growth is possible this year, and that 700,000 more people have jobs than in 2010. We are therefore on our way to complete employment in Hungary. Secondly, wage increases require tax reductions, because we believe that tax reductions allow continuous wage increases, which is why the government decided to reduce corporate tax to 9 percent in January and to reduce employers' tax significantly. These tax cuts have greatly contributed to the fact that if compared to last January, real wages in Hungary have increased by 10 percent, which means more than a month's increase. For the sake of fact: these tax cuts were not voted by the left-wing parties and the President of Jobbik at the end of the year. Wage increases also include sectoral wage increases, which are also made possible by the stable performance of the economy. Without the need for completeness: teachers' salaries increase by 50 percent on average between 2013-17, higher education continues to raise wages, researchers' salaries increase by 27 percent until 2018, and while left-wing governments have taken a month's wages from teachers, the civilian government offers them a predictable career. The wages of specialists and pharmacists will rise at two paces, with HUF 207 thousand, but the wage increase will also affect the nurses, they will also be able to take more home at more than 65 percent. Residents' wages are also rising by 50,000 forints. In addition, wage increases and sectoral wage increases affect, among other things, law enforcement workers or those working in the district office. [[15.10]] I would also like to tell you - also because left-wing and right-wing speeches ignore them - that the minimum wage and the minimum wage for skilled workers increased by 15 and 25 percent in January this year. Thus, we can say not only that there is more jobs in Hungary, but we can also say that it is more worthwhile to work. The increase in minimum wages will continue in 2018. This year, the minimum wage will increase by another 8 percent and the minimum wage by 12 percent. Overall, this means that the wages of skilled workers will double compared to 2010. This is a minimum wage increase that he could not even think of during the governance of the left. These increases were not, incidentally, sanctioned by an agreement between employers and employees. Dear House, If we look at the debate day's topic in a narrower sense, which, if I understand correctly, is the proposal of Jobbik - the Wages Union, then we can say that it is a proposal that would take rights and powers away from the Member States, including Hungary. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: You're wrong!]] not only in the area of wage regulation, but also in the area of tax policy. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] This is the case, honourable right-wing Members, because it is not possible to raise the regulation of wages to the level of the EU by leaving tax regulation intact. You know that. And at this point, Jobbik's proposal is in line with the proposal of EU leaders who would take the right to determine taxes out of the hands of the Member States. Sometimes politics produces strange things: the party that recently burned the EU flag proudly is now in place. I would like to make it clear to you here that the government supports wage increases in all possible ways. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: Sit down!]] but he completely refuses to give us powers in favour of Brussels. That is what the opposition, Jobbik's proposal, is about. I think that this is a serious debate that will take place in the coming months. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Look at us when you're lying!]] or even define public life throughout the electoral year, which is why this topic is included in the national consultation questions. Therefore, we understand that opposition parties have expressed their views on one of the issues of national consultation: they would give Hungary the power to regulate taxes and wages. [[Adam Mirkóczki: But why lie?]] We do not support this because giving these powers out of our hands would only benefit international companies. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: The people with whom you have signed a contract with stra.]] We have also seen this clearly in the case of regulation of electricity and gas prices. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. György Szílégyi: You sure can. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear House, The left now demands a wage increase - I say it only because it is worth seeing who the players who are now demanding a wage increase and a wage catch-up are - which took a month's wages from many and under which unemployment has doubled. Not only did wages not increase then, but hundreds of thousands of people lost their jobs. That way, it's hard to raise wages. Then there's the Jobbik. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Speak for yourself...]] Jobbik constantly calls for wage increases, although when it has the opportunity to do so, for example through tax cuts, they do not vote in favour of this in Parliament. In settlements led by Jobbik - contrary to sound plans - we can't even give people a job, let alone a wage increase, you know very well. Consider, for example, the better model city of Tisavasvári, where unemployment is double the national average and then .9 percent. But it's not much better in Ózd, it's almost 9 percent here. By the way, the budget of Tiszavasvári, which is regarded as a better model city, is readable, and I quote: in the case of civil servants and civil servants, general wage development will not take place during the reference year. Compared to that, the deputy mayors' salary was raised by a third. Please, anyone who doesn't know about the good congressman, check it out. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: What are you talking about?]] So the civil servants and civil servants weren't given a penny raise, but their own salary was raised by a third. Now, that's when Jobbik raises their wages, 30 percent raises their own, and the employees get a big zero. Dear House, To sum up: if opposition parties want wage increases, we suggest that they withdraw their own tax increase plans as soon as possible, because if taxes increase, people from work will draw shorter. As we all know, the left is back on a multi-key sja system. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: Would you ever talk about your own position?]] And they're also implying that family tax incentives would be abolished, and Jobbik would tax farmers. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] If you insist on raising taxes, I suggest to the left that you tax László Botka, who is diving on coral reefs and driving with 25 million cars. And Jobbik tax its new owner, who bought the party at a discount. Secondly, if the opposition really wants a wage increase, they should immediately abandon their plans to hand over powers to Brussels, and this will lead to nothing good. Dear House, If someone puts the government's expectation that further wage increases are needed, I think they are right. Much remains to be done, but one thing is certain: wage-raising programmes can only be continued if taxes continue to fall and tax and wage policies remain in national control. These two conditions must be met in order for every Hungarian to take a step forward in his own life. Based on these two expectations, we look forward to the opposition's comments. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-193	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In their first round, keynote speeches will take place within 15-15 minutes of each group of representatives. The Fidesz Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman Erik Bánki.
u2017-04-10-194	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Today we will be debating a very important issue for all of us and for society as a whole, and that is the issue of catching up on wages. I would like to point out that both the Hungarian government and the Fidesz faction have been doing their best every year since 2010, so that we can create as many jobs as possible and pay as much wages as possible, i.e. decent wages for decent work for all Hungarian citizens. As we say in debates, where there is work, there is everything. During the formation of the government, we promised to create a million new jobs in Hungary in ten years. This was received by the then opposition with a good smile, and they seemed to think, as they did in the election campaign earlier, that this was just an election promise that the government would forget. Ladies and Gentlemen, I have to say to you that we are doing well on a pro rata basis, because it is 2017, and the government has created nearly 700 thousand new jobs since 2010. In other words, there is every possibility of creating one million new jobs in Hungary by 2020. As long as, after the collapse of the economic crisis, we had to strive to ensure that Hungary's solvency was maintained at all and that the Hungarian budget could be saved, we can now talk about in 2017 that it is not an absolute reduction of unemployment that is the primary task, but that it is in a phase of job creation in Hungary, where we can slowly talk about the absence of unemployment and, indeed, there is a shortage of labour in certain areas. I therefore think that the economic policy of recent years has produced results and that we have clearly been able to create a unique path in the European Union where every year the Hungarian economy can grow above the average of the European Union. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that if the Hungarian economy can grow above average, Hungarian wages can increase above average and this does not break the national budget. We remember when in 2002 Péter Medgyessy promised in the election campaign that there would be a 50% wage increase in Hungary. Not only did he promise, but he did, which was, of course, a very good decision for the workers, but it was disastrous for the country and the public finances, because he did not finance this wage increase from the performance of the economy, but from credit, he indebted Hungary, put the Hungarian budget in a position that was unsustainable. This resulted in the fact that by the time the financial and economic crisis reached Hungary, the Hungarian public finances and the Hungarian budget were in a much worse situation and much worse situation than in neighbouring countries. The consequence of this was that by 2009, the country had become insolvent, and if the Bajnai government had not resorted to the World Bank for help, then it should have reported insolvency, and only with this IMF loan could the Hungarian government and the Hungarian budget survive until the 2010 elections. [[15.20]] Ladies and Gentlemen, As promised, depending on the performance of the economy, we not only increase wages every year, but also introduce discount systems that are unique in Europe. We have a family-friendly tax policy in Hungary, we have introduced and run a family tax relief system that is unique throughout the European Union. We have introduced tax reduction measures since 2011, which are now one of the most economically competitive countries in Central Europe, since we have the lowest level of corporate tax and one of the lowest levels of personal income tax. This means, please, that net wages can grow year after year in Hungary, since we must not forget that inflation has been virtually zero for years. State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés said that the minimum wage rose by 88 percent only at the level of minimum wage increases, with inflation barely exceeding 10 percent. So this means that we can talk about a net increase of over 70 per cent in the area of minimum wages, and where we see even higher figures, it is the level of the guaranteed minimum wage, or if we choose a more acceptable form of society, it is the minimum wage for skilled workers. So the government has done everything in its power to ensure the catch-up. Why does Jobbik propose that we turn to the European Union, and why does this question arise in the first place, by examining the competences of the European Union, in order to try to achieve a Hungarian wage catch-up? The European Union's social and employment competences are defined in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Under the Treaty, it is primarily for the Member States to define their own employment and social policies. Consequently, the Union's competence is limited to the area which the Treaty designates for it. If, therefore, the European Pillar of Social Rights were to establish a parallel system in the field of employment policy and social policy, and the legal situation of this pillar was not entirely clear, Member States' competences would be violated or the principle of subsidiarity would be violated, which I believe we cannot support in any way in this situation. We have seen how the European Union reacts to measures that serve the interests of Hungarian workers and Hungarian citizens. You also remember, ladies and gentlemen, when we had to save the country from the economic crisis, when we imposed special taxes on multinational companies and the banking system, under what kind of fire the entire European institutional system has put Hungary under fire. That the number of Member States that followed the Hungarian example has increased from month to month, year to year, and that the consolidation and balance of their own public finances have been solved by the periodic imposition of special taxes. The same is the case with regard to wage catch-ups. I think that if we transfer powers to the European Union, it will not serve the interests of Hungarian workers, Hungarian companies, but the interests of multinational companies. If a violent wage increase were to be carried out, the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy would deteriorate, and the winners of this would obviously be the countries where the working capital would flow to a greater extent, and the large Western European countries from which the working capital is currently flowing into the Central and Eastern European region. [[Constant interruptions from Jobbik's benches.]] So overall, I think that any step that would mean reducing Hungarian powers, increasing European powers, for example, in the area of wage or tax policy, would not only help to catch up on Hungarian wages and strengthen the Hungarian economy, but rather weaken it. Obviously, there are interest groups that would benefit from this. We believe that we have taken responsibility and vowed to protect the interests of Hungarian citizens at all costs. That's what we insist on in this area. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-04-10-195	Thank you very much, Mr Bánki Erik, President of the Commission. I now give the floor to Congressman Sándor Czomba, seven minutes and twenty seconds.
u2017-04-10-196	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of the debate, I will try to knock down some basic things here, see if we can agree on certain points, and then perhaps we will be able to speak in substance for the rest of the debate. Unemployment is no longer the biggest problem for Hungarian people in Hungary. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches: One of the...]] This was far from the case in 2010. Today is the third serious problem, which, of course, cannot be welcomed, but the fact that it is not the biggest problem in Hungary today [[Dr. László Varga: Health...]] Well, there's an important message for that. In the year 2010, we were in all aspects, in terms of unemployment, in terms of employment, everywhere. For the 20-64-year-old population, the EU expects a 75% employment rate by 2020, which licked 60 percent around 2010. There was no man in Hungary who dared to say that by 2020 75% would be fine. We said, we said, I said in forums with more or less conviction, but I was worried, because it's a huge number. The fact is that at the moment, this employment rate is 72 percent, honourable Members. Thanks to what? So, what happened in the world, and because of this, or perhaps the Hungarian government has something to do with it? I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members that, in recent years, there has been almost no month without some kind of employment programme. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Public Works Program...]] The vast majority of these created new jobs in Hungary in a quantified, tens of thousands of sizes. Perhaps the most spectacular change for young people is the unemployment rate of nearly 30 percent in 2010 and the employment rate of 18 percent. Today we have almost turned the two numbers, 11 percent unemployment in this area, and nearly 30 percent employment rate. Let me just say one program, as regards the Youth Guarantee programme: it has been operating for nearly a year, 32,000 young people have been in the competition sector during this time, and 16,000 people are taking part in training... [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: Where?]] In Hungary, within the borders. It is not true either, and it must be struck again, more than once, what is the dynamic of employment growth: public employment, working abroad or something else? Fellow Members! It had to be seen that between 2010 and 2013 there were 500 thousand people on aid, or not even on aid, with a zero GDP increase. What could the Hungarian government do then? He said I was pulling him out of the relief system, and I'm trying to work, if I call it public employment, to provide temporary help, not aid. The situation is indeed different after 2013, especially today, 2016-2017, when we have to think the other way around because there is no man. The Szabolcsi, the Borsodii, could say that in many cases they could not find a man for trained work at the beginning of the spring work. This is exciting. Those who are now abroad would not take up work in Hungary, because they have decided differently, otherwise their decision must be respected. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Sure! They went for the right pay...]] So public employment is falling, and that's what we should probably agree on, because the figures clearly show. Statistics of third-country workers in Hungary seem, honourable Members, that every year the government has the opportunity to set a quota, which is usually around 40-50 thousand. He didn't make it to 10,000. Last year there were 6,000 of them. So let us calmly check that there is no concern that third-country nationals will be taking the job away from Hungarians here, because this is especially true since the accession of the European Union. On the issue of emigration from Hungary, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Romanian migration rate is 10 percent, the Polish is 6 percent and the Hungarian is 2-3 percent. Do this at the right place, I think, and when we talk about migration, we also think about these figures. There are no exact statistics, no doubt, especially those who are over the years or who are employed outside Hungary. It is within the year, it moves around 50,000 and 110,000 since 2004, sometimes smaller and to a greater extent, but the dynamics are not increased by their number in employment over the past period. With regard to wages, ladies and gentlemen, let us see where the role of the government is, its role, its importance in determining wages. With regard to the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, it is important to agree with the government's mediation, but primarily with workers and employers. This is a very important issue and has always been the case in recent years; it has always been the case since 2010. If the government tried to push down a serious number for employers or workers by force, it would have huge and very serious consequences for the labour market. [[15.30]] So here the rules of economics can be, but it is not worth squealing, because this can lead to very serious problems. So I think it's still the government's job to deal with the problems of the actors, the main players. Obviously, it has to do with the public sector, and it has done so in line with the increase in performance over the past period. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that it is often said here that the minimum wage should finally reach its minimum wage net. Ladies and gentlemen, this has never been the case in Hungary, and has never been achieved once. We will achieve next year, if everything goes well, in 2018 on planned growth, that the minimum wage will finally be reached. I wouldn't go for an international comparison here. [[Intercoms in the lines of Jobbik and MSZP.]] [[Intercoms in the lines of Jobbik and MSZP.]] I mean, obviously, those who work in London, they're talking about, say, whether it's worth looking at wages and not in net value, they could tell a lot about how much I earn, but how much I have to spend, say, on housing and other things, so obviously it's a complex... (Interjections in the lines of Jobbik and MSZP. ) Let's talk about this. Let's talk. I think that we are here today, ladies and gentlemen, to talk about important issues such as this. Well, here's your chance. I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that in our country, the average wage paid by foreign-owned enterprises exceeds domestic wages by 50 percent. 50 percent! [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: But they don't pay taxes!]] That is not so, my honourable fellow Member. 50 percent! So a large wage increase, you can think about who will be hurt or who will be harmed, the Hungarian small or perhaps the multinational, who has already been able to do so. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai: That's right!]] My fellow Members, if today's debate is about and we may agree that we cannot raise wages without performance, then there is something to talk about. If we say that wages can be raised, particularly on the proposal of Brussels, then I think this debate is pointless. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-197	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Before the Jobbik Group comes the MSZP Group. They indicated that three speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman László Varga.
u2017-04-10-198	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, This is not the first time that, at the beginning of a political debate day, there are such criteria that pro-government representatives are trying to define what this debate day is about, it is natural. Anyway, I think it's a completely different debate day, and you guys have been avoiding it all the time. The fact is that due to low wages and lack of prospects, a very serious emigration has developed in Hungary. Of course, before 2010, there were people who took up work abroad, of course, but after 2010, during your governance, this process accelerated dramatically, hundreds of thousands of people left Hungary, which has caused serious labour shortages; and by the time this started to cause economic problems, you had already recognised the situation, otherwise, a market process was delayed and limited by the fact that the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage was started to a greater extent than before. By the way, of course, the minimum wage was taxed earlier, and many things were done that encouraged the Hungarian people to move further. Here we heard hurrah-optimist reports on the situation in the labour market, but we did not hear that public employment and the huge number of people working abroad are involved in these improving data, and whatever Erik Bánki said, in a situation like this, the only option in the present state of the Hungarian economy is a large-scale wage increase, and the only thing the Hungarian government can do in areas that it can handle. It must be said that maintaining the wage gap between Western Europe and Hungary is in the interest of the more developed states that are further west of us, because there is a convenient solution to the shrinking labour force, the high labour demand, that the skilled labour force flows from the Eastern European states within the European Union - yes, from Poland and, of course, from other Eastern European Member States, but particularly from Hungary - to the west, but this causes enormous problems in Hungary and Eastern Europe. There is therefore a need for a proper tax system, adequate education, flexible re-training, and there is no mention that IT experts, construction workers, catering workers or health workers are very difficult to find, because there is a huge shortage of workers in these areas in Hungary. While the minimum wage in Hungary is approximately EUR 2 per hour, 10 euros are also available in Western European countries, but several experts in the Hungarian economy also believe that 4 to 4.5 euros would be available in the short term, which would mean that many Hungarian families and Hungarian people could manage themselves at home. Several of our proposals have been addressed over the past period, the net of the minimum wage should reach 60% of the current net wage, but the situation before 2010 should be restored to the fact that the minimum wage is tax-free, uniform career models are needed, and civil servants' wages should finally be increased after seven years of governance, not just to talk about it. The gender pay gap between the parts of the country must be eliminated and the employer's burden reduced. However, in the long term, we have to go further, I think, and in this perhaps the picture is even more devastating than it seems in the short term. The competitiveness ranking of the EU regions has just come to light. This is a comparison that compares regions. In 2013, there was such a comparison, and now the latest figures are in 2016. It compares health, education and innovation, in these three main parameters the individual regions are listed in this list. All the Hungarian regions, i.e. all the seven Hungarian regions, have deteriorated. North Hungary is in a dive, here the most serious is the deterioration. Romanian and Bulgarian regions have preceded us in the last three years. This, therefore, is competitiveness, which will determine in future what will happen on the wage front from the perspective of the country's economy, in terms of people's well-being. In terms of health, four of the last ten regions in Hungary, North Hungary is the last of 263 regions. The PISA report shows the deteriorating quality of education, and we see what they are doing with CEU, and in terms of innovation, they do not see break-out points, but they will talk about it after me. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-04-10-199	Thank you very much, Congressman László Varga. He used 5 minutes 10 seconds of the 15-minute time frame. But before I pass on the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, Member, I will conclude that Mr László Varga MSZP also violated the rules of the illustration. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] The Parliamentary Act 38/A. Article 4 of the Act provides that the application for an illustration must be submitted in advance not later than one hour before the meeting of the House Committee. I will inform the Speaker of the violation of the rules of the illustration that I have done so, and I will do so in the case of Congressman Chizi. You have the floor, Mr. Nándor Gúr.
u2017-04-10-200	Mr President, let us make sure that we do not make Parliament ridiculous. To get to the point: three years ago, Tibor Szanyi and my fellow Member of the European Parliament launched the adoption of European minimum wage matters and the emergence of them. We said that we needed to create a situation in which the minimum wage should reach 60% of the average wage gross in terms of average wages in a given country, but I am much more in favour of the net, simply because it seems to be stealing money from people in the government process, doing so by increasing the burden on wages and paying it by employers and workers. Paying decent wages as a basis for living is a good thing for everyone. In Hungary, it is important to ensure that there is no workers' poverty. In Hungary, it is important to ensure that most workers do not earn their income below the minimum wage. [[15.40]] This government should also pay attention to this. It is not enough to raise a minimum wage or a guaranteed minimum wage, but it also means that for five years people will be given less money with purchasing power, translated into Hungarian: they will steal people, and then, a year before the election, they will say that, now you are here, we will raise the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. You can't, you can't, you don't have to think people are stupid; they can see what you're doing, they'll have the idea. Tax exemption, tax credit? At the lowest incomes, this was done before 2010. Not today, because Fidesz canceled it. Same salary for the same job? Yes, that is what I have to say, of course, the purchasing power parities - this is the one sentence in which there is some agreement between us on the statement of the Secretary of State - it is important, obviously, whether extra or minus, in this respect, the wages of the countries in our environment. The reduction of the employer's burden - is that what we are talking about? Well, that's shameful, because compared to 2010 - I say only the minimum wage - in 2010 with a total burden of HUF 32 thousand, with the combined payment of employer and employee, now it looks like HUF 73 thousand. You know what I mean? More than HUF 40,000 more tax burden is imposed on the employer and the employee than it was in 2010. I must say that there are not only territorial differences in Europe, but also within Hungary. In Hungary Budapest and as an example between the incomes of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county in net terms! - There's 108,000 forints per month. 108 thousand forints/month. This is the way to think if you want to look at it in a broader sense. Gender pay differentials: yes, there are 9-24 percent differences in Europe, but let's look at our own things briefly. The last seven years have been known to drive more than 600,000 people out of this country, yes, they have driven away from this country with the policy they have made. These people didn't find the living space anywhere else. Obviously, the low wage level or poor working conditions, working conditions, legal environment, I do not want to be absorbed in the labour code, which has surrounded them in recent years, repelled me and made me flee. No, we are not chasing the EU's wages, no; we are now clinging to Visegrád's wages. Minimum wage, average wage? It doesn't matter which one we're looking at. But we are also the fifth in the line of the European Union at the back of the GDP purchasing power parities per capita; the sixth in terms of gross minimum wages. Gross! It's not the net! It's even worse in the net. If the countries in question look at the percentage of those who earn minimum wage in the countries in question, do they know what it is in Hungary? 54 percent, while in a Visegrád country, the Czechs, that's 39 percent. In Hungary, the gross and net aspect of the minimum wage opens the scissors - the difference has increased by more than HUF 30 thousand. Withdrawal is increasing, the tax burden on low-income earners is one of the highest in Hungary for the EU-28. I'm going to give you thousands of examples over the course of the day just to think about what needs to be done. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-04-10-201	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary, Congressman. 4 minutes and 47 seconds left for MEP Tibor Szanyi.
u2017-04-10-202	Thank you very much for the word, for the opportunity. Mr President, I should like to point out, above all, that I have great solidarity with the demonstration exercises, even because I have already won an illustration suit against the Speaker of Parliament, although it has undoubtedly been quite manual. Dear Parliament, Following my colleagues Nándor Gúr and László Varga, and especially instead of talking about the right-hand demagog for almost an hour, let's talk about the facts. I am not an absolute believer of capitalism, but since Marx, we know precisely that prices, in particular the price of labour, which is commonly referred to as wages, are essentially determined by demand and supply relationships. When we look at the quality of wages in Hungary, we can really see bitter conditions. Of course, it is possible to speculate that so-called evil multinationals pay their employees more than we do to the west, but we also need to see that the same multinationals operate in Hungary with a higher wage level than their Hungarian competitors. In particular, if you post a multi-job advertisement, you usually get crowds, while others complain about a shortage of workers, without a better one. But all right, let's hit the multis nicely. Starting today, let's say the CBA pays double wages, and believe me, all the employees of Tesco will be applying to him. Hungarian companies would be able to strangle all their foreign competitors here literally and in no time, if they beat them to multinationals with their wage offers. That would be a real heat, national. That some profit-hungry owners don't want to farm this, so I can't say anything better in this case, so just go back to the textbooks and explain whys longer. Dear Parliament, Unfortunately, there will be wage differences as long as there is capitalism, even in a small country like Hungary, in Budapest people make much more money than other parts of the country, and Nándor Gúr has just spoken about this rather prematurely, and unfortunately there is also an East-West gap, and even in the very integrated national economy of the United States there are huge differences in national and regional wages, even in Europe. For example, if you want to get to know the drivers of this, talk to Sándor Csányi about why the employees of the Romanian OTP branches pay less than the Hungarian employees, but you can also talk to our legendary entrepreneurs, such as Lőrinc Mészáros, why the workers exploited in his company have exploited you just as much as any other oligarchy in our small country. I think it is safe to see that, in general, labour incomes are higher in countries where national income per capita is higher, a certain famous GDP. Of course, much depends on the liveliness of local trade unions, the quality of social solidarity, but overall, it is not possible to break away from the fact that this whole issue is a real competitiveness problem and that the competition rules are shaped by people. What my fellow Members have already said, for example, the Hungarian Socialist Party has put the so-called European minimum wage at the forefront of its 2014 European Parliament electoral programme, and it is not ineffective, because today more and more EP resolutions have included this element as a goal to be achieved. Of course, no one should think that the European minimum wage would mean that the Hungarian gas station attendant will earn as much from tomorrow as the Luxembourg and, of course, that he will earn as much as his Bulgarian partner. The European minimum wage, I repeat, means, in particular, that the minimum wage in that country should not be less than 60% of the average local gross salary. In Hungary, the average gross salary was 273 800 HUF in January 2017, 60 percent of which was 164 280 HUF, which is what the minimum wage should be in Hungary if the government were to think at a European minimum wage. What's the minimum wage compared to that? 127,500 forints. This means that Hungary is behind roughly HUF 40,000 a month compared to the so-called European minimum wage - this is the moment. And we have not yet talked about the fact that the average salary in Budapest is, yes, 100 thousand forints higher than in the neighbouring county of Nógrád. So we should start by thinking about them, not talking nonsense, and talking about Brussels in general. I note here and I am very pleased to announce that, during tomorrow's day, precisely to prevent rural areas from breaking down, in the European Parliament [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] in the joint formation of the European Parliament and the European Commission, the European Smart Villages programme will be launched for my initiative. But back... [[The president's ringing again.]] Thank you, I'm going to a faction frame. [[Defiance.]] [[The president's ringing again.]] Thank you, I'm going to a faction frame. (Faintness. ) Otherwise, in the European Parliament (the President is ringing again). ) I asked representatives of some extremist and radical parties in Western Europe... [[Intercoms.]]
u2017-04-10-203	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman István Hollik, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party. Your time is up, thank you very much.
u2017-04-10-204	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to complement my fellow Member, Mr Bánki, and the Secretary of State, with two basic things. On the one hand, in my speech, I would like to talk about the results that we have achieved in terms of the growth of real earnings, the government has achieved so far, and the multi-annual wage agreements that have made people and workers employed by the state more and more stable; it is also, of course, career models. [[15.50]] The most important thing, perhaps, could be a cliché, is that a successful economic policy can only be founded on the cooperation of economic operators. Once again, it's cliché, but it was only done under Fidesz-KDNP, not before. We've seen the results. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, for example, in 2002, when the socialists began to govern, they presented a perfect example of what would happen if they did not build an economic policy together. After all, without real economic performance, the socialists raised a one-off high rate of wages by 40 percent, thus knocking the budget out of its stable position, which is why the economic crisis had already found the Hungarian economy in a weak state, and as a consequence, in 2009, when the socialists took a month's wages from employees, they actually took what was given in 2002. So if an economic policy is not based on cooperation, then this will be the result, the balance of the budget will be overturned, the Hungarian people will not get anything further ahead or even back, because they were actually paid wages, which were then taken from them six years later, and economic policy will not be able to show any success. In fact, the salon of eight-year-old socialist governance in the context of job creation is the loss of 200,000 jobs during their eight-year governance. It also shows that without cooperation there is no way to create a successful economic policy and a successful employment policy. That is why it was important that the government agreed last November, more precisely, as my fellow Member Czomba said, the government brought the agreement together, helped workers and employers to agree on a minimum wage increase and a guaranteed minimum wage increase for the next two years. Let us look at the goals that we wanted to achieve on the basis of the November agreement. In particular, a general reduction in contributions for all employees to reduce labour costs. Secondly, reducing the tax burden on businesses in order to maintain their competitiveness and increase their competitiveness. Not least by increasing the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage to a greater extent. I believe that the joint implementation of all three goals is an important and essential element of what the government wants to achieve in order to improve the general standard of living of Hungarian society. In the light of the above, a brief description of the results in terms of wage growth. In January 2017, the impact of this wage agreement is already apparent from the relevant CSF data, as in the competition sector - once again - gross and net average earnings exceeded 9.1 percent a year ago and in the public sector gross and net earnings increased by 12.2 percent in January. In addition to impressive growth, it should also be pointed out that this year the closing of the wage scissors between the competition sphere and the public sector with wage increases in the public sector will continue. It is also important to mention that employment has never been as high since the regime change and unemployment in Hungary is as low as at present. The increase of the guaranteed minimum wage above the minimum wage and the average wage increase is also one of the cornerstones of the six-year agreement. This is important because it can also contribute to reducing labour shortages and keeping skilled workers at home. [[In the notary seat Dr. István Tiba will be replaced by József Attila Móring.]] Between 2010-18, the gross amount of the minimum wage increased from HUF 73 500 by 88 percent, to HUF 138 thousand, and the guaranteed minimum wage by double or even 102 percent, from HUF 89 500 to HUF 180 thousand. But let us also look at all these from the point of view of having children. Since support for families is considered by the civilian government to be one of the most important issues, we can also see serious developments in this regard. Due to the introduction of the family discount in 2011 and its extension in 2014, the increase in real earnings among workers with children in the last six years has been significantly higher than average, thus the real earnings of family workers have increased by 22.4 percent for a child, by 31.2 percent for two children, and by 51.2 percent for three children. This year, the net amount of the minimum wage exceeds 100 thousand forints for two dependent children, and in 2018 this will be achieved for one child. If I may, I would like to say a few words about wage measures in the public sector, which is also of particular importance in the government's programme. On average, in 2012 and 13 health care workers and doctors' salaries increased by 27 percent at two paces. As a result, the overall wage of around 95 000 health workers will double by 2019 compared to 2011, which is a significant step in the history of health care. In the social sector, children with a higher education qualification in crèches of more than 20 per cent in 2014-15, between 30 and 40 per cent in 2016 and 12 per cent in the case of children with secondary qualifications in early 2017. Thus, the average wage in the social sector will increase by 62 percent overall by 2018 compared to 2013, including about a third of the next two years, covering around 90 thousand people. In addition, significant wage measures have been taken in other areas of the public sector. In 2013, he received a 50 percent wage increase based on the introduction of a teacher's career model of 175 thousand people, based on the career models launched from 1 July 2015 in law enforcement and defence, with a total of 90,000 persons and 22 thousand in NAV. Twenty thousand people in higher education and 16 thousand people in the field of justice, as well as 35 thousand people in the county government offices received a 25 percent wage increase from January 2017 with the launch of the career of state officials. Nor did the cultural sector miss out on the wage increase, nor did the population of educators in public education, as there was a 10-15 percent increase in wages for 50,000 people. Overall, this means that between 2010 and 16, if we do not even look at family tax incentives, the average is 18 per cent, if we consider family tax relief, real earnings have increased by almost 24 per cent. So between 2010 and 18, minimum wage increases by 88 percent with 17 percent inflation. On the other hand, when compared to previous socialist governance, we see that in their eight years the gross amount of the minimum wage increased by 47 percent, but all of this, with inflation being 51 percent in that period, compared to 17 percent in 2010-17. The real value of the minimum wage also increased to a minimal extent between 2002 and 2010 and even decreased to child workers, as the Socialist Government essentially abolished tax relief for children with one of its first measures. Thus, in the period of the Fidesz-KDNP government, the increase in real earnings, together with the family tax reduction, over six years, is 10 percentage points higher than the 13 per cent increase in real earnings under much more favourable economic conditions in the eight years 2002-2010. [[16.00]] In addition, the average real earnings of the private sector workers increased by 29 percent, and the public sector workers by 25 percent in the six years between 2010 and 16 compared to 18 percent in the competition sector and only 7.7 percent in the public sector during the eight years 2002 to 2010. Speaking of which, a few words about Hungarian wages in an international comparison: since 2010, among the population aged 15-64, Hungary has grown at the fastest rate, but also in terms of increasing employment and reducing unemployment, we are among the first four countries in terms of wage increases. Following a rapid and drastic increase in employment, the changed labour market situation has allowed the government to contribute to catching up wages to the European average. In terms of employee income, wage measurement at purchasing power parities gives a realistic picture of comparison between different countries. If we look at it as purchasing power, we can see that between 2002 and 2010 Hungary has increased the minimum wage to the smallest extent from the Visegrad countries, i.e. under socialist governance. This trend took place after 2010, when we were in the lead with Poland until 2016. With the 15 percent increase in 2017, Hungary was the only one at the forefront of the growth since 2010. Overall, it can therefore be said that the reduction of the wage difference between the Member States of the European Union is clearly an objective of the government, and in this respect we have also achieved results. Of course, these results are far from sufficient, but it is clear that we have set off on the right path, and we must continue on this path. But it is also certain that the wage cuts It should be left to the Member States because it is the most effective way of dealing with it. It is also necessary to take into account the impact on macroeconomic and fiscal policies. Sustainable economic growth is a very important issue not only for the future of the European Union but also for Hungary. Artificially increasing the level of benefits without proportionate economic performance could undermine the economic stability of many Member States, including Hungary. That is why we do not support this. Catching up is, in our view, made possible by ensuring fair competition and equal access to the internal market. The demand for equal pay, even though the right-wingers say so, does not lead to equal pay. As a result, businesses in the new Member States are being excluded from the internal market on the basis of the simple economic mechanism mentioned here by my fellow Member Sándor Czomba that international companies in this area pay their employees significantly higher wages than their domestic counterparts. Therefore, if we introduced the principle of equal pay for equal work, it would be the worst and most disadvantaged of the Hungarian SME sector, they would be destroyed by this measure. In the light of this, therefore, according to the Hungarian position, the Union cannot impose an obligation to pay. Because of the increase in Hungarian wages and the improvement of our position vis-à-vis other countries, it is in our fundamental interest to retain national competence in determining wages. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-10-205	Thank you very much, Congressman István Hollik. The Jobbik Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Vona.
u2017-04-10-206	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members of the European Parliament, I would like to start by saying what is the purpose of this Wage Union initiative, because it seems to be a bit misunderstood, indeed very much. There is this pinch, as if the aim of this initiative is to achieve some kind of tax harmonisation within the European Union, or to ask for some alms for wage increases for Hungary and Central Eastern Europe, while maintaining the current structure of the European Union. But that's not what this is about. So they didn't carefully read Jobbik's manifestations and speeches about it. This is very bad because it is not possible to have a meaningful debate. This is precisely about removing the European pay gap between the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the Western countries, despite the last ten or a few years of EU membership. This should go hand in hand with the strengthening of competitiveness in the region, with the strengthening of businesses here, and this should go hand in hand with the renewal of the whole European Union. So, in essence, this proposal is about a new European Union, and what you are saying here is basically just constantly an excuse, against why it can't be. I would like to ask the pro-government representatives to change this aspect a bit and try to ask themselves the question that usually brings the world forward, how it can be done. I trust you very much that you want the European Union to be fair, and the kind of pay gap that, whatever policy we are trying to achieve in the coming years, we will not be able to eliminate in substance, because if we look at it, it affects not only Hungary, but the whole region. There are differences within the region here, and they are worth confronting ourselves with. Between 2006 and 2015, if we look at the average net earnings in Central and Eastern Europe, we are not talking about the minimum wage, we are talking about net average earnings, then the average net earnings in the region increased by 60 percent. Hungary contributed to this 60% by only 16 percent in Hungary as a motorist. Even in terms of the region, we are lagging behind. But this is precisely about catching up Eastern Central European wages to Western European wages. That's how it went down, there's a question of who's responsible. Some people say it's nobody. Here too, in essence, we have heard such comments as if it were a natural thing, such a historical heritage that we cannot overcome. I don't believe that, we don't believe that. We believe that Brussels is also responsible here, and unfortunately our governments, including the current government, are responsible. Brussels is responsible for only imitating cohesion policy and imitating catching up. In this regard, a recent speech by German Commissioner Günther Oettinger was given as a autumn speech to the whole European Union. Where he said what? He said not to take away EU funds, which we always talk about as some sort of messiah. What Germany is paying into this register, says he, basically emigrating back to Germany. In fact, you say the sentence that should be discussed - and I would be happy to hear you say that too, because I see that Congressman Hollik is finally nodding, this is a historic moment, let us say - the German Commissioner said that Germany is not, in an economic sense, a net contributor to the European Union, but a net beneficiary of the European Union. It would be worth looking back at Parliament's reports on how many times we have discussed this, and what was your answer when we discussed it. Secondly, not only Brussels is faulty, but also governments are faulty. After all, whatever they are saying here, listing the terms of government propaganda, economic policy has been built on the cheap labour force for the last ten or so years. Orbán said this in his foreign negotiations: come here to Hungary, because the labour force is cheap, and even the labour code is flexible. Prime Minister also told Márton Gyöngyösi twice in the hour of immediate questions that they did not support the Wages Union initiative. However, the kind of pay gap in the region between the two parts of the Union was a direct reason for the two biggest national tragedies in the last ten years. One is the foreign currency credit crisis that people are indebted to. The reason they couldn't finance their expenses and their lives was because of their own wages. Otherwise, Jobbik would have introduced this problem in 2009 by solving the forinting at the time of admission. If the Socialist Government did this then, or you in 2010, then there would still be no foreign currency credit crisis. The other reason, which is also due to a low level of wages, is the emigration that we have talked about a lot here. Honestly, I'm very disturbed by the kind of cynical attitude of the Prime Minister to this question, that it's a desire for adventure. Well, it takes an adventure to stay here, try to get along at home. Secondly, when we talk about the free movement of persons as if it were a natural process, it is worth considering, fellow Members, whether this great EU principle exists, which we call the free movement of persons, or indeed the forced movement of persons. If there were free movement of persons within the European Union, then it would certainly not only be a Hungarian graduate who would have to do the dishes in Germany, but also because people are free to flow, a German graduate would come here and do the dishes in Hungary; but obviously this is utopian. The fact is that people are forced to flow in the European Union. And our wage Union initiative is precisely about stopping this injustice. In this accomplice's silence, in deadly silence, we shout into the ears of the European Union's leadership that it is not fair, it is not fair, it is not a Europe of solidarity. [[16.10]] The founding fathers of the European Union did not imagine the European Union in this way, where the West, the Western part, the core states exploit the periphery and keep it in this condition, because since we joined the European Union, the gap between wages has not diminished at all between wages in Western Europe and Central and Eastern Europe. So obviously there is a system error here, and this initiative would like to eliminate this system failure. We are aware of the counter-arguments, the difficult situation of Hungarian SMEs, the dominant position of multinationals, the fact that this is a complex and very slow process to implement. We are aware that we do not need to tell you this, but I would like to ask you again not to look for how we cannot, but if you want Hungary and the Central Eastern European region to catch up with the level of Western wages, then we are looking together for how we can. I think I dare hope that you may have some good ideas in this matter - whether we exclude this possibility - but if we do not even set a target, and if we do not have this goal in the current European Union debates, we have all sorts of nice principles, but in the current European debate, in the European debate area, it is not a question of catching up on wages in Central and Eastern Europe, it is not a problem until we have set this goal, so let us not expect results. The mother of a silent child doesn't understand her word, and we are sick of it, and Hungary is sick of it. We don't want another credit crisis, we don't want any more migrations, and if we don't want to, we have to catch up on wages. I would also like to add that, while eight countries have joined together within the framework of this citizens' initiative, eight countries in Central and Eastern Europe must also understand with the western part of the European Union that this is also in their interest, because if this does not change, the region in Central and Eastern Europe will in essence be destroyed, depopulated, unlivable and could otherwise take the entire European Union, including the western part. Prime Minister said that he did not support this initiative, even though he should have said in my opinion that we need things, despite all our debates, all our sometimes substandard debates and campaigning, in which we agree and for which we are fighting together. Unfortunately, he didn't say that, proving that he's not a statesman, he's just a politician. I am asking you here in this debate to try to find an attitude to how to achieve this noble goal, which affects Fidesz, Jobbikos, Left-wing people and all Hungarian people alike, how to fight for this together, so that Hungarian people in Hungary can earn the same wages they receive in the West for the same work that Hungarian people do in the West. This is what this initiative is about, and I must tell you frankly, I do not understand how this can not be supported with common sense, pure heart and Hungarian intentions. I'm asking you to reconsider these arguments. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-10-207	Thank you, Congressman Gábor Vona. I now give the floor to Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi.
u2017-04-10-208	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Gábor Vona talked long about the real purpose of our EU Wage Initiative initiated by Jobbik, why the Jobbik Movement for Hungary called this initiative to join together eight countries in Central and Eastern Europe. And what is this initiative really about? This initiative, contrary to the misconceptions you have set out, is not about transferring any rights to Brussels, it is not about giving Brussels any say in Hungarian wage policy or in Hungarian tax policy. This initiative is about how we can bring into European Union law, the statutes, the cohesion policy of the European Union the systems of criteria that could finally, after more than ten years, start the catch-up with which the whole region has joined the European Union and the illusion of which the political elite has spread to the general public here and in other countries. This citizens' committee was set up on 13 March, and on 20 March we forwarded to the European Commission the initiative in which we presented the purpose, content and all the objectives of this citizens' initiative, and we are waiting for the European Commission to make its decision after two months after collecting one million signatures to enforce this noble goal. Why did Jobbik choose this tool? Because the question could undoubtedly arise as to why Jobbik chose such a complicated instrument governed by European Union law to achieve this goal. Unfortunately, we do not have any other means in our hands, as we can express our criticisms of the policy of catching up of the various governments here in the Hungarian Parliament. We have thought that in Central and Eastern Europe, we are trying to make certain changes in European Union legislation, bringing us together every country that has similar problems, which can lead us to wage and standard of living. I am also saying this, ladies and gentlemen, because after 27 years it has been proven that the Hungarian political elite is not interested, that the various governments are not interested in the change. In the last 27 years, economic policy has been built on the fact that, after full privatisation, liberalisation, reduction of customs duties, import liberalisation, in return, Hungarian society was given an illusion that the catch-up could happen at some point in the standard of living and wages, and this was completely cancelled. Low taxes, billion-dollar state aids, the establishment of multinational companies with low wages have not had any demonstrable, economically demonstrable results in terms of wages and the catch-up of living standards. And it seems that you still do not want to make a paradigm shift in the economy, even when all the negative consequences of this policy are visible and visible in emigration, poverty and debt. To this day, with Viktor Orbán, you are still campaigning abroad to ensure that wages are cheap but well-trained in Hungary. and show foreign investors that they can use taxpayers' money to create whatever infrastructure they want and make their stay comfortable and spend billions of dollars to achieve this job creation in strategic contracts. For you, this is the priority, not that small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary manage wages from these billions and bring Hungary to the Western European wage level. Cohesion policy has not been successful either. It did not serve and serve the interests of the countries of Central Eastern Europe, as Günther Oettinger's speech has made it very clear and what we all know. But we were saddened to see that this didn't hurt you at all, as if you hadn't noticed this statement. They didn't say that once. [[István Hollik: Of course we did.]] Although it should have been a world scandal that Hungarian citizens have been deceived here for more than ten years, the Hungarian political elite, together with the European Union bureaucracy, with cohesion money being a kind of catch-up here, even though everyone knows that we are buying products and services from these net contributor states, and that it is not in our best interests, but in the interests of the net contributor states. Of course, we understand your concept and strategy. You are using this cohesion policy to make visual investments here in Hungary before the elections. I believe that such large infrastructural developments are good for you at local level or in national politics before the elections, and for you to present something worthwhile before the next elections. These funds are also good for building their own clientele from their own pals and their own friends. This is the hotbed of corruption, which you are accusing yourself of with Brussels bureaucracy, and the only victim and loser of this is the Hungarian people and Hungarian society, because in the break-down of wages this is evident and leads to the poverty of Hungary. Each indicator on Hungary's competitiveness and productivity shows that Hungary at productivity and competitiveness levels is not only global but also at regional level. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's completely severed. It's completely severed. In order to catch up on this and increase this, Hungarian economic policy should focus only on catching up on wages and living standards. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-10-209	Thank you very much, Congressman Gyöngyösi. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group also indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. If I understand it correctly, I'll give the floor to Congressman Ákos Hadházy first.
u2017-04-10-210	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here were the numbers, the numbers from the pro-government speakers, that these 40-50 percent, what will grow in a few years' time; but these offers are very similar to what we see on billboards in the offer of banks, when there is a small starry line with a small letter, and it is written that these offers are not binding offers. About this much can be taken seriously, and we forget the figures that in the past, Hungary's wages were around the same level as the neighbouring countries in 2010, and then we are now 20-25 percent behind. [[16.20]] It should also be said that there has been a lot of talk about the situation in the labour market, how unemployment has changed, how many jobs have been created. We forget that we may be doing well in numbers, but it is very important that it is important not only to have a job and not only to have a lot of jobs, but to have good jobs. Unfortunately, it has to be said that a large part of the newly created jobs are alibi jobs, but we cannot expect anything else when it comes to alibi steering, the alibi jobs can be brought in. I don't want to look like I'm Morick, that everything comes to mind the same thing, but I think it's a key issue on this subject to talk about the corruption situation. For two reasons: one is that a large number of surveys of corruption show that 500-600 billion forints per year could be won if this corruption were to be reduced or reduced, or if the government wanted to reduce it, and that 500-600 billion forints would be enough to double the wages of both education and health care workers overnight. Obviously, the level of wages in public employees depends directly on corruption, the amount of money stolen; in private companies and market firms, this relationship is not that simple, but it has to be understood very well, especially because it has a lot to do with corruption. For in private companies, the government can really do one thing - this has been said here a few times correctly, even from the government side - and it can do so by raising the minimum wage. These minimum wages need to be increased predictablely and continuously, and companies need to know at what pace, how these wages will rise, but we need to know that they will clearly increase. In these cases, if the minimum wage is raised, unfortunately, it is quite clear that there will be companies that will not be able to pay these minimum wages. Today, in Hungary, multinational international corporations have very serious reserves, so people who work for such companies can expect and are expected to increase their wages, but small businesses - just because the government does not warm them on their bosom, as they do with international corporations - would put a very large number of them in a difficult situation if we raised the minimum wage significantly and suddenly. That is why this should be done gradually and predictablely, and that is why corruption should be reduced. If the minimum wage is increased and small businesses are in a difficult situation, what happens in a normal country is that there is a competitive situation, and those private companies, those small companies that strive to work more productively, work better, will remain, and those companies who cannot improve productivity will be destroyed. This will result in unemployment. However, in a well - functioning country, money for adult education is not stolen; adult education is not forgotten at all. When we talk about wages today, I have not heard anyone say the key word adult education, which is one of the most important factors in this regard. Hungary is the last in many indicators in the European Union, but one of the saddest is that we are the last in adult education. In Hungary, it does not come to mind that if an industry is destroyed, say, a taxi industry or a driver industry is in danger because self-driving cars are coming, no one can really think that people could be retrained. We have received a lot of money from the European Union, most of it has been stolen for basic education for such a fee of HUF 200,000 per hour. The other connection, however, is that when we live in a corrupt society, not in a normal society, we will not be the private companies that will survive the challenge of giving people more salaries, which will innovate, which will increase productivity, which will work harder, but will survive by companies that will go into pranks, agree to corruption, say, start up in a national flexibility lawsuit, and hire 15-20 million forints at a price that they will entrust a company there to do deep interviews and see whether the workers will want flexible working hours or not. There are a lot of alibi contests like this. In Hungary, it is corruption that prevents productivity from actually increasing, companies from modernising, and the economy from modernising. There is only one way to raise wages if this really happens and to see that it is corruption that prevents it. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-10-211	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Bernadett Szél.
u2017-04-10-212	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I have to start by saying that this debate day is very topical and very important. The biggest problem in Hungary is the mass emigration caused by the wage crisis. Fidesz-KDNP can't give a normal explanation of what the numbers of May Other in Politics are for, about what solutions the governing parties have to propose. From the data requested by us, the number of Hungarian children born abroad doubled between 2011-16. This means that the number of these babies increased from 7,000 to 14,000 a year. This means that since 2010, 78 thousand babies have been born abroad, which, I would like to stress, is a number that approximates the demographic data of 11 and 13, the number of births in Hungary alive. So this question shows precisely that we are now at the root of the problems, the most serious questions are where Hungarian families go from here, Hungary, and why these Hungarian families have to leave. The answer is quite clear that the problem here is wages. These families leave Hungary because they cannot earn enough money with decent work to support themselves and their families. I've told you many times that this is going to be a huge problem, there is already a demographic crisis in this country. What is the guarantee, honourable secretary of state - who are here because no minister has respected today's debate with its presence - that these children will come home to Hungary and study here, will they work here, will they have children here? Tell me what's going to happen to these families. However, I would like to say that I do not really know where to put Jobbik's political attitude. I could quote a little bit of a paraphrase of your earlier slogan here to be measured and said, and then when new numbers come, they'll move on. I looked at your 2014 EP programme, and I didn't really find any steps in it that would have been about you guys trying to eliminate the pay crisis here, and the problem hasn't just begun. Neither the elimination of wage differences nor any related measures have been put on the table in relation to the 2014 EP elections. Anyway, it is also an interesting story for me who is arguing with who here, because if we are talking about breaking down the European Union here with the slogan of the nation state, then there are two parties in Parliament who are competing with each other, one is Fidesz and the other is Jobbik. So in that sense, I can't put it politically, that they want a union on one side, and on the other, they actually agree with Fides on a lot of issues. So once again, who is debating and with whom in this parliamentary debate. The other question is that this whole story, if we want to end a union of wages and the wage crisis, must be financed from somewhere. Not a single party or a single representative, who allows Putin and the whole Paks expansion a fortune in the Hungarian parliament, can say a word about how he can handle the wage crisis in Hungary, because who throws 4,000 billion out of the window tells me how he wants to finance the increase in Hungarian wages here. I can see that in recent years, LMP has put its proposals on the line for the elimination of the wage crisis, and we have a very clear diagnosis. Here there were different representatives in the previous term, and they are still here, pointing to different places, but the Hungarian government is primarily responsible for the Hungarian wage crisis. [[16.30]] The responsibility of the Hungarian government is absolutely inevitable, it cannot be pointed at Brussels, it cannot be pointed at the European Union. [[István Szávay is replaced by Nándor Gúr in the notary seat.]] Those who have invented and maintained this wage system, this tax system, are Fidesz, who, by the way, carry on the practice of the MSZP, because in 2010, when they took over the baton, you promised that there would be a big turnaround here, and that you would focus on domestic job creation and domestic production, compared to doing the same as your socialist predecessors: you will, from abroad, you will bring in the working capital, you will produce assembly plants, you will castrate the labour code, and you can work for bad wages in various foreign assembly plants in Hungary - this is what you have placed on the table. And by the way, I think it's a shame that you're the big family-friendly government - and then even the KDNP listen a little bit. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] - who have introduced the fact that parents with children under three years of age have become eligible to be fired in this country. The socialists still had enough to protect these people, now they can be put on the street in case they go back to work - this was done by Fidesz-KDNP, one of the most disgusting measures of your labor code. Now let's look at the facts, because facts are usually hard to argue with. 12 years since accession to the EU. The Visegrád countries took hold of themselves and walked by us in wages. Today we are no longer talking about where we are in wages compared to Germany and to the Netherlands and England, about how Hungary is in wages between the Visegrád Four. And I would like to say to you that we have been horribly cut off, Hungary is practically in the back even in its own group of competitions and in its weight group. I would also like to state that, at the time of accession in 2004, we had net average wages closer to the Visegrád countries, but later these countries pulled away and produced much more growth. What we see is that in 2010, when Fidesz took over the helm, we had about 8-14 percent lag, and since then the distance has almost doubled. So, please, stand up, please, and tell us what the reason for this is, because it is not the Czechs who are responsible, and the Poles and Slovaks, and not Brussels or Vladimir Putin, but you are responsible, so please explain this. The second is that we are talking about very serious problems here, Hungarian wages should be increased nearly quadrupled to reach the European Union's average. This means that if the current growth goes on, which you said is pretty much all right, it's half a century - so what are you talking about? What is Fidesz-KDNP's hurrah-optimism for? Do you want to give us half a century to catch up with EU wages? Let's forget about that very quickly. The third is that it is no coincidence that, back in 2010, Viktor Orbán put faith in the multi-key tax system, and then he became a government, and as many politicians have done the opposite in the last 27 years, he has introduced the single-key tax system. Two and a half million people in Hungary have been wronged. Then came the substitute, the explanation and the opposition, that we want to raise taxes and the big bullshit; that's not what this is about! It's about you serving the interests of a very narrow group, and all the other people were told that you'd get hurt, and you wouldn't notice, and we'd stun you with all sorts of words. Forget about that. These people know exactly why they make less money. I would also like to point out that the type of division of labour that has been going on in this country for 27 years, and it is constantly nothing but that they will do themselves and create favourable conditions for multinational companies, and that Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises will not be dealt with at all, it will not work for long. The fact is that there is a huge difference between foreign and domestic companies in productivity, and these scissors are opening up. This means that it was not the case, not as it was in 2010, that the situation was bad, but that it became even worse under you, under the Fidesz-KDNP. What I'm saying is that a multi-party employee produces 15 million HUF added value in one year, not even 5 million from a domestic company, and that's because there is such a competitive difference between multinationals and SMEs. It shows well that your latest economic policy measure, which also benefited the multinationals, has reduced their taxes by 10 percentage points, and small and medium-sized enterprises by 1. So it must be clearly said, ladies and gentlemen, that the economic model that has been used since the change of regime has failed here. Hungary has been on a completely wrong path since 89. It is not necessary to build a structure built on the assembly plants of multinationals, but a new economic model, sustainable reindustrialisation and local economic development. What do I mean by that? Electric production, trolleybus production, bus manufacturing, agricultural machinery industry, food industry, modern, sustainable materials construction, renewable energy, production capacities must be created, recreated in Hungary, and support for small and family farms should be given priority to large estates, organic farming is needed, cooperatives are needed. That's the direction forward, all the other bullshit. And I would like to stress that a thorough settlement of wages cannot fail. 300 billion could solve the public sector, and you wouldn't do it. It could be done by providing proper resources for education, compared to this, you have closed universities. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We would give 20 out of 100 budget forints for education, because that money should be there. That's what they do! As long as you don't do it, please don't press the button (The President bells.) 'Cause it's just embarrassing.
u2017-04-10-213	Thank you very much.
u2017-04-10-214	Thank you.
u2017-04-10-215	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now up to the Member of the European Parliament to speak directly, taking into account the order of the independent Members. I would like to inform you that the Jobbik Group has given Mr Zoltán Balczó, MEP, four minutes from the time frame set for him, so that the Member, together with a one-minute speaking time per independent Member, can speak in a total of - 4 plus 1 in 5-5 minutes. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Balczó, Member of the European Union.
u2017-04-10-216	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Here we are trapped in the rules of the house, because I think it would be justified that if a faction initiated a debate day, he should be the first to speak as rapporteur, because in this case it might be partly avoided, what Mr.Csaba Dömötör had forced on Jobbik to imagine, which, of course, we would not imagine. It is not about thinking that the European Union will determine the wage or minimum wage in one country. Of course, this remains a national competence. But then what do we even want? And so their lead speakers said: yes, through the cohesion funds to remain and even grow, and the European Union to meet the sublime goals that it has officially set, and the use of those funds in the countries of this region would be appropriate, it would be possible to bring wages closer to the Western Europeans to a significant extent. Let me quote the way in which my claim that these goals exist is true. Let us go back to one of the founding fathers, Robert Schuman is quoted by many, he said that cohesion, coordination, cohesion and coordinated activity are Europe's future. It was not intended to create a state over a state - interestingly, though they refer to it - he said that Europe cannot be integrated by building a common structure, what Brussels wants now, but stated that cohesion is the main goal. Moreover, if I quote the basic treaties of the European Union, there is in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union all that the aim is social, territorial cohesion, solidarity between the Member States, continuous improvement of the living conditions of the peoples, the reduction of differences, so it is all that the result that has been achieved has gone against. By the way, these eight countries are trying to enforce it. And why is that in danger? You know that cohesion funds have fallen by 8.4 percent in this budget cycle, which has never happened before. Well, then, how can we expect to catch up? The gap between 2007 and 13 is increasing between the so-called centres and periphery. Some more examples, I will go back to 2012, here in Parliament József Pálinkás, when he reported on the situation of Hungarian science, said that the 12 new Member States that have been included will receive 4.5 percent of the resources, and 95.5 percent of the 12, because they have one goal: to preserve their advantage in science and innovation, as opposed to the Member States that have been included. [[16.40]] Mrs Creţu, Commissioner for the Romanian Region, said a few weeks ago at the meeting of the Brussels Commission that there is no need to be alarmed, that we will support developed countries with cohesion money in the same way as the weaker developed countries. Of course, it is not expected that developed countries will not receive funds, but is the cohesion amount used to support developed countries? The 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, a festive moment, high ideals; the only concrete thing that has been said is that a two-speed Europe is what we want to build. Now, where are the objectives that this initiative is seeking to address in the European Union? And the government's presentation of the results was usually about dynamics. Let me give you an example: the per capita consumption, measured by the GFK Hungária market researcher, is currently 40,6 percent of the average purchasing power per capita, far ahead is Slovakia, the Czech Republic and even Poland. So what we need is for you to support this initiative, so that the European Union takes its goals seriously, that this region has resources, and we use it to really raise wages, not use it for the corruption money of its own clientship. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-10-217	Thank you very much, Congressman Balczó. I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés.
u2017-04-10-218	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Very briefly, before there are some comments left unrequited after the speaker's speeches, I would like to respond to a few thoughts and refer them back to my introductory thoughts. Among other things, it has been said from all three opposition groups that even in comparison with the V4. I used Eurostat data when I said my introductory thoughts, but I would like to remind you again what I said and what it says - not me, but - Eurostat. Hungarian wages have increased significantly more in national currency and in purchasing power parities since 2010 than in the target countries that are important for Hungarians to work abroad: Germany, Austria and the United Kingdom. Mr EU Member mentioned that we are talking only about dynamics. But if the dynamics are greater, it means that the catch-up is in progress, so the difference is reduced. Let me give you some figures: in 2004, the average net earnings and purchasing power ratio were 34% compared to Germany and 24.5 percent compared to the United Kingdom. By 2016-17, this is an estimated figure, but we don't have 2016 data yet, but we have roughly 2016 behind us, so we can calculate: this will be around 43-44 percent for Germany, which means that this will mean an increase of 10 percentage points. The UK's 24.5 percent ratio is set at 43-44 percent in 2016. This means that this will mean an increase of almost 20 percentage points. Czech Republic, Slovakia and Poland - in the case of the V4 response, for each country, if we look at 2015-16, then the scissors close, there has been a significant increase in the percentage of net average earnings in purchasing power parities, the indicator is good for us, so dynamics bring the difference, if there was, down. This means, by the way, that in the case of a state, we are already better as calculated; I say, we do not yet have the exact Eurostat data, we do not have them, but we have been able to make calculations on the basis of this principle. So in one case we are already okay, we have already achieved or exceeded the comparison at the purchasing power parities there, in the case of Slovakia, but the catch-up has started to a significant extent compared to the two other countries. The only reason I'm saying this is so that someone doesn't keep in their ears what they're using specifically for their own purposes, and they're trying to make people believe different information. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-219	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik.
u2017-04-10-220	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am very sorry that LMP did not understand our initiative, because the fact that MSZP and Fidesz do not understand, who were involved in getting here, this is understandable in some respects, we would expect more from LMP and what their proposals are. Unfortunately, it was here that Jobbik spoke of a tax increase and a transfer of powers. That's not what we're talking about. We are talking about at least setting, in terms of objectives, that wage catching up is important for the EU, Hungary, the Eastern region, because at the moment we are concerned that these goals are not set. If there is a debate between us in the end, if you say that there is no need for a pay gap, it is a next question, but until the government makes this clear to the Union, or in fact it does not appear in the EU's activities, everyone actually accepts this state. As far as we can see and have no evidence of it, there is a lot of local information leaking out that when a larger company comes to Hungary, it is said that the government has asked in this way not to pay too high wages in order to create a certain wage competition in the region, if this information comes from more and more places, then it makes me wonder what the government is working on, and adding that they are giving huge subsidies to multi-company companies, and thus we have also seen companies that have received this support, and then they closed down. Now, if we don't say in an environment like this that wage catching up is an important thing, and the Union does have to deal with it, then I think that the lag and what the government can do in its own jurisdiction with minimal wage increases will never lead us to approach what is in the Union or the western part of it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And as long as you don't recognize the goal, you'll contribute to that. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-10-221	Thank you, Congressman. The next two-minute comment is Mr Nándor Gúr, Member, MSZP.
u2017-04-10-222	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just to prevent the thoughts of Péter Cseresnyés from sitting down, I mean those that are not right; ten years ago he spoke of a million new jobs, I would like to point out that this is by far not a million new jobs. Between the full year 2009 and the full year of 2016 there is a difference of 599,000 people in the 15-74 age group, but I would also like to add that the public employment surplus between 2009 and 16 shows a surplus of 180 thousand. Added to this, a surplus of 120,000 people is shown by those who work abroad and are registered in Hungarian statistics, and roughly 200,000 are those who are involved in student employment and who were not listed in the employment circle seven years ago, and are now enrolled. If you add this up, this simply means 500,000 people, in Hungarian: I could account for 99 thousand people in a positive sense if I were you. Well, that's not much in seven years, Mr. Secretary, in a favourable economic environment. The other one about the unemployed: you, who could only be pushed out of the system, pushed out of the system. Technically, the decline in the number of unemployed people in registration is due to the fact that they work abroad and the other part in public employment, which is not always considered productive work. And compared to the V4 - to be clear - there is a break-off, for example, for five years the minimum wagers received less money, and it can be said that in this respect they are now trying to correct their own affairs in the last year before the election, trying to create a situation that, if they had been better in the last two cycles, in the last seven or eight years. Unfortunately, that's not true. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-04-10-223	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The two-minute comments are interrupted by two outstanding State Secretary's contributions. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. [[16.50]]
u2017-04-10-224	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, This afternoon's political debate was initiated by our better colleagues to discuss the elimination of wage differences between the Member States of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, Personally, I believe that Hungary's problems, if there are, and the tasks of Hungary, which we have, must be resolved in Hungary. Personally, it's easier for me to talk about the European Union, and I didn't vote for them at the time, so I'm talking about it with a lighter throat. I do not need to change my own words, as others do in my own judgment. So, on this subject too, allow me to speak primarily from this aspect, that our own tasks are waiting for us. That employment is the first of our duties, I think, after an hour and a half or two, there is no need to discuss it separately. Here, most of my fellow Members will remember that all the post-regime polls, all the polls, all the election preparation statistics initiated by any party were about the fact that people were most afraid of unemployment. For a decade and a half, the country's population was concerned about whether or not they had a job, and if they had a job, they would lose it or not. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this question has been decided for today. That's not our problem anymore. We are throwing other problems at each other here, namely what solutions we should find to the shortage of labour in employment. The second question was - and also raised above - whether public work should be included or not counted, and whether working abroad should be taken into account or not. Ladies and gentlemen, Anyone who's wanted to work abroad for the last 50 to 60 years had to defect before the change of regime. You don't have to defect today, you can leave, and if necessary, you can come back. I know these are famous words, I'm not the first to say it, but I am convinced that most of the people - mostly young - who have left in recent years will come back. They are coming back, they realize that in most parts of the world they will always be strangers, and their home, their country, will always be Hungary. So I ask you to strengthen this faith and not weaken it by giving up these hundreds of thousands of young people. This hundreds of thousands of young people, not all for the desire to know, but, yes, a significant part of them went away for financial reasons, and as the financial situation at home improves and improves, they will come home. The other is public employment. I rarely refer to it here, but unlike a large part of my fellow Members, I have lived much of my life in Ózd, where, indeed, the situation before, during, after the regime change, mass unemployment has forced people to take desperate steps. And where personal identity confusion becomes a mass, situations that are still well perceived, along with all the political consequences, are created, since desperate people always listen to the loud and not the true word. That's XX. We've learned it in the history of the century. But at the same time, I believe that public employment or public work, like previous practices, will provide a temporary solution to the situation in Ozd. I would like to stress that it is temporary and it gives us an opportunity to bring people back to the world of work to those who are fit for it, and the vast majority of those involved in public work are capable of doing so. You're giving them a chance. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, However, let me say a few words about the last few months, namely, when I say that Hungary's tasks must be solved by us, what steps the government has taken to resolve some of these tasks in recent months. What happened in the sphere of competition, Minister of State Cseresnyés said: In December 15, there was an agreement in the sphere of competition with the participation of employers, workers and the government. This resulted in an increase in the minimum wage and the lowest wage for skilled workers, which, of course, pushed up the whole pay table. The next task was to put on the agenda issues relating to public sector workers' wages, when and when they see wage increases in the competition sphere. Mr. Secretary of State has also spoken about this. Allow me to add a moment to this, his comment. In particular, what we rarely talk about today - I don't know why, perhaps a little shy - is that Hungary has had peace of work since 2010. Work peace in Hungary [[Dr. Wind Bernadett, you've made the strike law impossible.]] Hungary was neither disturbed by loud strikes nor by other social policies. This peace of work can be explained in a significant part by the fact that, whatever anyone says about us, the government has always been open to social reconciliation, that is what we did in December 2015 and then in January, when we sat down with trade unions and their associations in public companies to see how they would imagine the present period and the coming period. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The Ministry of National Development has, without exception, written to management in all or most of the state companies subject to the exercise of ownership rights, to start negotiations with trade unions and to indicate how, in view of the agreement concluded in the competitive sphere, they see a 2017 agreement and what we have proposed, possibly a three-year wage agreement. They proposed this, and this proposal was summarized in a month by the wallet. This covers more than 250 companies. I repeat, I stress that the NFM covers companies directly or indirectly belonging to the ownership of the NFM. In total, there are 143,000 employees. Among them are employees of large public service companies, i.e. the MÁV, the water, the energy industry, the Volans, but for example, I also list rehabilitation companies employing thousands of people. These were summarised by us and, on the basis of the negotiations with the companies and trade union associations, it became clear that some of these companies could not, on their own, assume the obligations which might fall on them in the three-year wage agreement. The rest, the number of which is exactly 79 out of 252; the other companies were able to claim this three-year increase from their own management and from the 5% contribution reduction previously granted by the government. I have not said the number so far, these agreements are ultimately on average - and I would like to stress that on average - in three years they have made and allow a 30% wage increase, of which, by the first year, 13 per cent, to 18 per cent, i.e. by the following year, most of 12 per cent, and by 19 per cent, by the third year, the remaining 5 per cent. [[17.00]] I stress that this is average. Some companies, such as the post office, where there were lower than average incomes, higher increases, 33, 34 percent increases, where there was a higher, relatively higher wage level, and there was a slightly lower rate than 30 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this social agreement, which has been unprecedented since the change of regime, will continue to ensure the peace of work of public service companies providing services of major importance to society in the coming years, ensuring that these companies can, by the way, promote wage conditions for those with the lowest incomes, the pay conditions for young beginners and the replacement of those who are missing in the deficit sector, so that, overall, more than 140 000 employees - please take into account that this means 400 to 500 thousand people - increase their income conditions in a guaranteed, even and predictable manner over the next three years. I believe that this is the solution to the settlement of income relations in Hungary. This is the solution to ensuring the replacement of the Hungarian economy, and I know that my opposition colleagues are reluctant to hear it, but it is also an important tool for maintaining social peace. Thank you for listening. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2017-04-10-225	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. We will continue with the two-minute Secretary of State's response. State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés, please.
u2017-04-10-226	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I asked you to speak again so there wouldn't be anything left in the ears that didn't have to stay there. One MSZP representative tried to show in retrospect that employment did not actually increase, but we managed to achieve it with statistical hocus pocus. I would like to draw his attention to the fact that, at the time of the change of government in 2010, there were just over 70,000 public workers already, which has increased to 210-220 thousand people. This means that not 180,000 people - as he says - the extra increase, I was not very good at mathematics, but perhaps if we subtract 70 from 220, then the increase of roughly 150,000 people will come out, which, as the Secretary General Fónagy said in his speech, has given us a tremendous opportunity to satisfy the labour market demand by supporting and helping those on the primary labour market that have not been thrown out of the world of everyday regularity, the world of everyday work. I would also like to say another thing: on several occasions this Member, who has just spoken, said that this statistical improvement is because we count student work among the employees. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2015, at your time, this was considered. So don't try to mislead Parliament or the people who watch this broadcast, watch today's debate. It would be my request that the debate really be fair. If you have a forward-looking suggestion, if you can say something as a criticism that is worth heeding, and I'm sure it is, then do it, but do not soften phrases, and do not mislead people. Mostly, that's what I'm asking. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-10-227	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Vargha, please.
u2017-04-10-228	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member, István Hollik, referred to the salary increase in the defence and police sector and the creation of careers, but before we discuss in detail what we have done to improve, raise and settle the living conditions of Hungarian soldiers, I think it would be good for us to have a few words about what happened or did not happen during and during the governments before 2010. If we recall, in 2002, there was the last significant salary increase for the Hungarian Defence Forces, and if we recall, this happened during the first Orbán government, and nothing happened until the second half of 2015. What happened between 2002 and 2010 was the reduction of the capabilities of the Hungarian Defence Agency: key skills disappeared between 2002-2010, non-weapon cultures disappeared, along with professionals, knowledge and technical tools. So if we are looking at and talking about what we had to do after 2010, this should also be taken into account. And why is the second half of 2015 the first important date? Ladies and gentlemen, We all remember, in 2010 and in the years following 2010, the Hungarian government and all of them - and I would like to stress that what we did was not the performance of the Hungarian government alone, but the joint merit and performance of Hungary's citizens - we had the power to put this country back on track from a near bankruptcy situation; and in the second half of 2015, the salary increase that did not end now began. At that time, the salary of the Honvéds increased by 30% and since then, in January 2016 and January 2017, by another 5-5 percent, and will continue in 2018-19. It is very important that we pay attention to our soldiers, because today they still perform an important and valuable service at the Hungarian border, which is essential for the security of Hungary, so the salary of the crew was increased by 10 percent in the second half of 2016 as a labour market supplement. It is very important to mention that this year, in 2017, it was incorporated into their salary and not received as a bonus, because it is very important for them, and we want to make sure that, by acquiring school education, future soldiers of the current staff are out of the current staff.In 2016, a conscious increase in the defence budget began: every year, the Hungarian defence budget increases by 0.1 percent of the GDP ratio, which ensures the appreciation of soldiers, the increase of their salary, and the improvement of working and living conditions, so the development of the Hungarian Defence Office began. Within the framework of the Zrínyi 2026 a defence and military development program will begin, which in eleven years can create a powerful Hungarian defence. It is very important that we do not let go of the hands of soldiers who, while serving their country, living in their vocations, because of illness or accident, become medically unfit for service, the system of protection of health damage provides a sure vision for them as well. It contains an application for replacement of their former income and provides for the possibility of further employment even if the soldier has suffered health damage. If further employment is not possible due to its health condition, the system includes an allowance for health damage, which may reach between 65 and 100 percent of the previous regular salary depending on the period of service. This is, therefore, what we have done together, together with the citizens of Hungary, and we will continue to work together with the citizens of Hungary, with our joint efforts in the coming years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-10-229	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We now return to the two-minute speeches, and I am speaking to Mr Bernadett Szél. Here you go. [[17.10]]
u2017-04-10-230	Thank you, Mr. President. I feel like we're watching two movies here. I would like to say that I am not interested in what Fidesz-KDNP thinks about the eight-year governance of the socialists in 2017. I don't care! We talked about this a long time ago. The Hungarian people have declared their will. What I'm interested in right now is what Fidesz has to say about the subject, but it doesn't. Seriously, I would like to conclude the debate on the V4 by saying, Mr Cseresnyés, that the average wage in Hungary has increased by 52 percent, that it has doubled with the Poles, and that it has increased by 80 percent with the Czechs. We're behind like tips, Mr. Secretary of State. I don't understand what you're saying. Don't tell me Eurostat data, look around and tell me the truth. Secretary of State Major, let's not refer so much to public companies. Some state companies have 40 times the difference between the boss and the employee's salary increase. Forty times the boss is worth to you as much as the employee. The world has never seen anything like it! I don't know what Fidesz's statement is, and it makes my hair stand up on my back, because it's about being presented now, please, a new strike law in which they give the Hungarian workers the opportunity to strike, because now there's something they can't strike with. What are you talking about? They neutered the strike bill, and then they come in here and say they're at work. And I can tell Jobbik that the LMP will never be open to populism. We can discuss sensible proposals. I would like the governing parties to put the proposal on the table, because at the moment I do not know what they are talking about, I do not understand what this debate is about on the part of the governing parties - most of all nothing, it seems to me.
u2017-04-10-231	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. I would like to tell Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi that I cannot give him the opportunity in this round, but in the next, if he maintains his application, of course. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: I'll wait with patience, I'm here.]] István Hollik next, two minutes.
u2017-04-10-232	Thank you, Mr. President. I have a few questions for my better fellow Members, because I see that the proposal they have tabled to us contains a number of logical loopholes, not to say politically nonsense. They made two statements, which, by the way, I'm not arguing with myself. One of their claims was that it is in the interest of Western Europe, the core countries, to have low wages in Central and Eastern Europe. I do not argue with that, I agree with you, even if, thank God, you have not been able to enforce this interest in Hungary since 2010, but I agree with you on that; as I agree with you when you said that Günther Oettinger's statement also proves that Western European countries are using the European Union to pursue their own economic interests. I agree with you on that, too. That is why I am asking you how you think we are going to the European Union, Gábor Vona goes there with a bright eye and tells you to please, Western European countries to solve our problem as well. How? And the Western European countries will say that, of course, we have nothing to worry about, there are acts of terrorism in all the capitals, but it's okay, we'll give you ours too. What do you think of that? ! In other words, how can we expect it to be fair for the Western European countries to solve our problem? I don't think that's fair. That is why I would like to tell you to trust yourselves, to trust Hungary. We can see that as a result of the Hungarian people, they have achieved important results in the last seven years, in conjunction with a good government policy. The figures said by the Secretary of State also clearly showed that we were able to turn our handicap. We're not saying it's gone, but we were able to carve. I think that our own affairs are in the best place in our own hands, not in the hands of the western countries of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-10-233	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is up to the ordinary speeches. I give the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Mr Vinnai Winner. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-10-234	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Before I draw attention to some facts, let me say what István Hollik said that we can only solve our own problems. True, and since 2010 there has been an economic policy in Hungary that has been successful, I could say that the Hungarian model is working, and it seems that the opposition has sour grapes, because we are on our way to a work-based society, as Mr. State Secretary said in his exposé. [[Dr. István Józsa: Slavery!]] a work-based society is being built and employment indicators have improved. Of course, it is possible to argue about how we count, but Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés told us how much the number is, if we subtract 70,000 out of 220,000, then there will be 150,000 left. You can argue that it's $600,000, $650,000, $700,000, but we're actually good on time. But this country isn't ready yet, this economic policy isn't ready yet. [[Dr. István Józsa: Well, it's quite ready!]] Ladies and gentlemen, What does raising wages depend on in a market economy? I would like to say that, in a market economy, the increase in wages does not depend on what Jobbik says, that it is a matter of will that wages are raised by the European Union, and that the Wage Union, equalisation of wages, should be created. No! Increases in wages depend on economic opportunities, economic performance, and wages are essentially determined by agreement or bargaining between market participants, businesses, workers and employers. That's why it's important what the government has done to make a six-year deal. Thus, both employers and workers agreed that the minimum wage should rise significantly, and that the minimum wage should be guaranteed, and as a result, a reduction in contributions and a reduction in tax will be made. I don't know, it may not have been said today that Hungarian corporate tax is one of the lowest, nine percent, in Europe. It's a one-digit corporate tax, isn't it? [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] When you get the floor, my dear fellow Member, you can say that. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Thank you.]] But I will tell you that between 2010 and 2018, because this is a two-year agreement and a six-year agreement, the minimum wage will rise from HUF 73 500 to HUF 138 000, an increase of 88 per cent. [[Dr. István Józsa: Plus VAT!]] [[Dr. István Józsa: Plus VAT!]] while the minimum wage is 102 percent (Dr. István Józsa: Plus VAT!) , yes, these figures, these facts, from 89 500 - that was it, dear Congressman Józsa, in 2010 - will rise to 180 500 [[Dr. István Józsa: Net!]] and over eight years, all with a projected 17 percent inflation. In fact, I would add that the net amount of the minimum wage will depend on the number of dependants from 2011, so the family tax allowance will also cover it, and in fact, if three or more children are raised, the gross amount will correspond to the net, practically the gross salary will be paid. [[Dr. István Józsa: 110 thousand forints for three people! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] That's right. I would also like to pay tribute to this House to the fact that, following a rapid and drastic increase in employment, the labour market situation in Hungary has changed today. We are really not talking about unemployment, but rather about labour shortages and how the government can contribute to catching up wages to the European average; in fact, I mentioned that by reducing labour costs, reducing the tax burden on entrepreneurs and raising wages. Let's see how this union can be achieved. What does Jobbik's argument system contain? Perhaps in the end, I also say that we can agree that wages must be caught up, there must be a dynamic that we need to catch up more than the wage increase in the Western European countries, so that the situation of Hungarian wages can improve on an international basis. But the aim of equal pay recalls the attempt of socialism to achieve equality. Historically, I can tell you this never worked. It never worked because a system based on this doesn't work. Without adequate economic funds, paying wages upwards would have serious economic disadvantages. [[17.20]] I'll tell you a few things. Competitiveness would deteriorate dramatically, hundreds of thousands of jobs would be at risk, and taxes should also be raised. We don't want that! We don't give our names to this kind of adventurer policy. Looks like nothing's expensive for Jobbik. Tax reductions and wage increases depend on an agreement with the social partners. The government tied this up for six years. We went to the wall in wage increases, and it was actually acceptable to companies, businesses. Much has been said today that we do not allow the issue of wages to be transferred to the EU level, which must remain national. Of course, productivity also needs to be improved, competitiveness needs to be improved, and EU funds will also be used for this purpose. I don't know, Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi looks at me so round with his eyes open. 60 percent of EU funds are intended for economic development by this government. [[Dóra Dúró: And whose economy are you developing? Butcher's Lőrinc's economy!]] Let me conclude by saying a few words about Tisavasvári, as it is in the county of Western Szabolcs in my constituency, as well as part of Nyíregyháza. I'd like to tell you that Jobbik can't even give you a job in its own settlements. In Tisavasvári, unemployment is double the national average, 8.9 percent. But I understand the situation in Ozdon isn't much better. In Tiszavasvári's budget, called the "model town" to be very strongly quoted by the Jobbikós, it can be read literally:. There is no general wage development for public servants and civil servants during the period of the personal benefits. The right-handed Philip Erik didn't raise wages. I mean, I'm sorry, I'm saying it wrong, because he raised the deputy mayor's salary by a third. So the civil servants and civil servants weren't given a penny raise, but their own salary was raised by a third. Well, that says more than anything. But to tell you more about Tisavasvári when you're in my constituency. This is a small town of 14,000, there are no new jobs, there has been an increase in migration - you have to come, you have to look - there has been an increase in the number of houses for sale, not in development, but in slippage. We want to work to change this, and the indicators that show, say, 4 percent unemployment in Nyíregyháza and around... [[Intercoms.]] You see, the Lego put his colony on the road to Tisavasvár... [[Zsolt Egyed: Talk about your own politics!]] His own politics? [[Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] In summary, I would like to say that today the Hungarian economic model is working, the Hungarian economic policy is successful, the employment indicators are good, and the wage catch-up has started for Europe's developed countries. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-235	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member Attila Mesterházy of the MSZP Group has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-04-10-236	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, A lot has been said in the debate. I would like to put to your attention an aspect that has been discussed less so far. My fellow Members have talked a lot about the gap between the European Union and Hungary, between the average wages there and the average Hungarian wages, and how this could be caught up. I have learned and read a lot about the fact that wage catching up is not a simple matter, and it is not just a matter of political will. Previously, experience in the European Union has shown that a newly joined country can achieve the EU average level of development within 15 years, so when we talk about such issues, we probably need to think about these perspectives. This is important because this is certainly a question that embraces several government cycles. But since there were relatively many words about this, I would prefer to draw your attention to two other inequalities in wages. The first is wage inequality and a wage gap in Hungary, since there are huge differences between East Hungary, Budapest and Győr-Moson-Sopron, and thus West Hungary. Let me quote a number or two. Most of the money was made by the capital in 2016, and their net earnings were around 226 thousand forints. Even the so-called richest county, Győr-Moson-Sopron, was well behind, if I remember the number correctly, the average wage there was around 182,500 forints. And if I'm looking at the wages of a man working on a Tornyospács, so I'm looking at the wages of a Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county employee, I can see that it's around 120 thousand forints. So there's a huge pay gap in the country. And when we talk about these issues, it is worth starting with the fact that, first, it would be good if wages within the country were not so separated, and then, of course, the right goal is to target the EU wage level as well. But once again, let me say that the political will alone is likely to be insufficient. The question of the other pay gap, which I would like to suggest to you, or at least to be exposed in the debate, is the pay gap between women and men. In the European Union, there is about 16 percent difference between women's and male workers' wages; of course, in the same profession, we are talking about jobs under the same conditions. This is between 20 and 22 percent in Hungary, so we are significantly below the EU average. Even the 16 are many, and the 22 are certainly unbearable and unsustainable in the long run. Not to mention that the biggest pay gap between men and women is in the 35-44-year-old population, since in this age group, women are over maternity leave and thus have a significant disadvantage for men in so-called career building. It would therefore be very important to address the question of how this pay gap could be reduced, because it is not fair, it is not in any way intended to serve equal opportunities if we allow such differences between the pay of women and men. The Hungarian state, the Hungarian government, could also have something to do in this regard. To give you a specific example: the number of ladies, the number of women, is extremely low among senior leaders. For example, there could be an initiative by the government to set a quota of some kind for state-owned companies so that as many ladies as possible can be included in top management. The other thing I would like to suggest to you is that there are not only wage differences or wage inequalities in the workplaces, but in many cases equal treatment is also affected in Hungary, which is why there is an unfair lack of information in this House dealing with inequalities in the workplace. There's a Equal Treatment Authority that does his job, mostly incognito. This is not an assessment of their work, so that no one understands it that way, but I think that the work they do is much less focused than they deserve, because if the Equal Treatment Authority condemns a job, then it would make sense for this to get as much publicity as possible, as the public is likely to encourage other companies or jobs to follow the rules. Therefore, I would suggest, Mr Secretary of State and the Government, that the operation of this authority should be made more public. And perhaps it would also be worth changing the practice, the rule system, that the report of the Equal Treatment Authority does not actually have a deadline for Parliament to deliver within a year. The committee responsible is either to negotiate or not to negotiate; at least the ombudsman's reports are to be discussed by the committee. So I suggest that you consider Parliament, this House, that it also be given a place worthy of Parliament's committee work. And I also look forward to Mr Secretary of State's proposals on how to reduce the territorial pay gap, how to reduce the pay gap between women and men in Hungary, what action plan and idea the Hungarian government has for this. This would certainly contribute to the success of today's debate. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-04-10-237	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the KDNP Group, Mr László Földi, the notary of the Parliament is coming. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-10-238	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Reducing wage differences between the Member States of the European Union is an issue that concerns and interests us all. First of all, however, I think it is important to stress that whatever amount of wages we are talking about, there is a very important prerequisite that must be met, and that is the job itself, the opportunity for work, because if there is work, we can really achieve a lot with it. [[17 .30]] This is the basis that governs the government side when it uses all its policy measures to create jobs. It is well known to all of us that the government is trying to build a work-based society, and with that, obviously, the government side, of course. Instead of help, we want to give people jobs. We are confident that full employment is also an attainable goal. That is why we have turned up the call for EU funds, which is why we support small and medium-sized enterprises, and that is why we have set the battle machine of diplomacy in the service of export recovery, and that is why we have created a public work programme that has been attacked by many, from which we are now helping workers into the competitive sphere with various grants and discounts. To this end, we will reduce and reduce taxes and increase the wages of those employed by the State. Of course, we are aware that the state cannot do everything, but it can do a lot, and has done everything since 2010 to keep wages rising. But it is important to emphasise that in a sustainable way, because this is a very important aspect. As mediators, we participate in employers' and employees' wage negotiations at all possible times, where we represent a compromise on the sustainable wage increase that can be achieved. As many of my fellow Members have already said, Mr Secretary of State has mentioned, I would like to highlight the wage increases in the public sector separately. I would like to deal with the situation of pensioners and pensions in Hungary for a little while now. I would like to quote Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, who reported in January this year that the state spent approximately HUF 18 billion last year on the free travel of our fellow citizens over 65 years of age. Travel benefits for persons under 65 affect an additional 1.8 million people, such as those with early retirement benefits, beneficiaries of invalidity benefits and pensioners under 65 years of age. In 2016, the state, the government, intended 9 billion forints. I mention these only so that sometimes we also remember measures that are so embedded in our everyday life that we may no longer have any idea of their value. The preservation of pensions, i.e. the preservation of real values, is ensured by the increase in pensions linked to inflation. The 2011 Act on Hungary's economic stability stipulated that the real value of pensions should be guaranteed, which can be achieved by a pension increase that follows purely inflation. The rule will be applied as of 1 January 2012 and, by evaluating the experience, we can say that, in recent years, the real value of pensions has been preserved and even pension increases have been made above inflation, thanks to pension increases and persistent low inflation. As a result, the purchasing power of pensions has increased. The pension increase between 2011 and 16 was 23.2 percent. The general consumer price increase is 11.8 per cent, and the pensioner consumer price increase is 12.4 per cent. This means that the purchasing value of pensions has increased by 10.5 percent compared to the general consumer price increase, by 9.5 percent compared to the increase in the pensioner's consumer price, which exceeds one month's pension by 1.2 percentage points, i.e. more than the 13th month's pension. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I would like to point out once again that the majority of Hungarians, together with the government side, are convinced to believe in the work. We therefore do not support, for example, the introduction of unconditional basic income, perhaps the most bizarre intellectual product of political movements flirting with communism. I would like to remind you once again that wages do not primarily require the Union, but work and work. Our task is to increase the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy, to create a favourable tax and infrastructure environment for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. It is important to emphasise sustainability, without which any spectacular wage increase quickly becomes a simple scam, disappointing self-delusion. We have to stretch as far as the blanket goes. But in the meantime, we have to keep working on making a bigger and bigger blanket. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-10-239	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Mrs Dóra Dúró is next. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-04-10-240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, At the beginning of my speech, I will try to answer the questions that Member István Hollik asked why we are the ones who are waiting for Brussels to solve the problem of Hungarian people. Well, Congressman, since we joined the European Union, we have been waiting for Hungary to have a prime minister who will raise this issue at any forum in the European Union. But since we do not, as opposition parties, we are trying to seize the opportunity that we have in the given legal framework. If Viktor Orbán or the former Heads of Government had been beating the table in the European Union ever since we joined to solve this problem, Jobbik would not have had to touch this instrument, and we should not have tried to force our own will and our own interest in the European Union in this way. On the other hand, we have also said that this initiative is in the interest of the region of Central and Eastern Europe, in fact the question of the whole European Union and its future. And speaking of employees in several sectors, I would like to talk about, not lying to myself, representatives of education and culture, employees. Not only because the vast majority of workers are women here, which is also an important part of the principle of equal pay and equal pay for equal work, but also because I believe that in the long term it is a strong education that can also base our economic success. You said that the economy is a success and that the wage catch is working well, but the fact is that there are people in the cultural sector who bring home a net salary of HUF 100,000 per month with a doctorate degree. Of course, it's not about Andy Vajna as a film commissioner, he doesn't have to crouch 100,000 to get to some doughnuts, it's about people working day and night in cultural institutions to create some kind of value and convey it to the next generation and to the adult generation. In spite of the introduction of the career model in education, I have never been to a school - even though in every session I conduct a series of visits to institutions in parallel as President of the Commission - where they would have been fully satisfied with this career model. However, I went to a school where 40 percent of the faculty earns less than they did before the introduction of a career model. And usually we are talking about teachers who work well, who work a lot, who are also involved in education and education. They were the ones who were worse off by introducing this. And let's say a few words about educational workers. They haven't raised their wages in nearly 10 years, and some kindergarten nanny earns 77 thousand forints after 15 years of employment. Of course, you think you can make a living out of 47,000 forints, you should be happy with that nurse, because she can save 30 grand a month, and if she works 30 years, she can churn up a ten million-dollar apartment. Of course, I do not want to be cynical in this matter, I think it is a shame for Hungary. In higher education, young researchers are not too enthusiastic either, if they look at the pay sign, they do not burst out in exulting laughter that they can bring home up to 260 thousand forints as an assistant, of course, in gross terms. So it seems to me that there is a shortage of workers in both the education and culture sectors because these workers are emigration. They not only migrate abroad, but also migrate to other sectors within Hungary. For example, they go to the Lego factory with a degree in history, because, yes, they earn more as such workers. [[17.40]] And you can press on the success propaganda, you can say that everything is okay, that employment is growing and wages are increasing, only as you govern, in the last seven years, as many children have been born abroad as Hungarians, which will be born in a year. It's like we graduate eighth grade in the summer in elementary school, and no one enrolls in September because these kids were born abroad. This is what is truly meaty for Hungary, and this is the situation that Jobbik initiated in one of its responses to reduce the pay gap and create the pay union to continue being first-class in Hungarian schools. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-04-10-241	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the government, Mr. Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-10-242	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Allow me to respond to both previous speeches, including on pensioners and on pedagogues, cultural and higher education workers. First of all, after decades of well - done work, I'm sure you'll expect that old age will also be safe. It was also important for the government that retirement years should not mean a deterioration in the standard of living for those who are working a life. This is why it was important for actions to increase, so that pensions also retain their value, so that no one over the age of 55 should be more exposed to unemployment, so that they would not receive a special discount for their pension fund or for women, the Women 40, too. If we look at these points point by point, we can see, as the Member said, that pensions will increase by 23 percent between 2010 and 2017. If I deduct inflation from this, the rate of deterioration of the money for pensioners, we can see that the purchasing value of pensions has increased by 9.5 percent. That is what the Member said, that we essentially gave back the 13th month pension, and even more, which the socialists had taken away, but not in one but for 12 months. This is also evident among pensioners in relative income poverty indicators. Obviously, there are several components to this, but it is important to know that while in the European Union it is an average of 13.8 percent, in Hungary 4.5. One of the reasons for this is stable pensions and pension increases in recent years. It is also worth seeing how the so-called substitution rate has evolved. This is the amount, this is the number that shows how much of the average income you get as a pension income if you retire. Of course, we also reached a low point in this area during socialist governance, which was 54 percent, which has now increased to almost 70 percent. So if you retire on average, you get 70 percent of your earnings. This is one of the higher values compared to the V4 countries or European countries, with a much lower rate of 50 percent. That in Hungary this is 70 percent, this is high, which means that the security of old age has been more guaranteed in Hungary than the EU average. We have also set up a system to ensure that those who are working now can count on the value of their pension not to be lost, which is why we have included a guarantee for pensioners in the pension law. Their pension rises at the beginning of each year as calculated from the estimate of consumer prices. In the event that consumer prices for pensioners increase more, they will receive an extra increase in November and, in addition, from 1 January with retroactive effect. If inflation is lower, this will not be lost, but will be included in their pension and will be added to it in the coming years. It's a system that I'm sure can only benefit pensioners, but there's no way they're gonna get hurt. It is important to have the additional discount that we refer to as the 40, which is an extremely popular measure of the government, since 186 thousand people have used it. It is true that here in the opposition benches there are those who have not voted for this, but nevertheless 186 thousand women have also voted against the opposition parties, and have taken advantage of the 40, women, including some of the time spent raising children. One of the elements of the job protection action was that, over the age of 55, when more vulnerable workers are hired by employers, the state should provide assistance, add to what would help these people to stay in work. If I look at the numbers of the previous years here, we can say that seven out of ten people who are about to retire were helped by the job protection action. This means that the contribution allowance granted by the State to employers aged over 55 has helped to keep the job at least seven out of ten employees. These people did not become unemployed, their incomes did not decrease, employment in the country was not reduced, and obviously they could expect a higher pension, since they were able to maintain their jobs. In 2013, the action plan reduced the employment costs of 247 thousand workers per month, 299 thousand workers in 2014, 318 thousand workers in 2015 and 340 thousand workers over 55 in the last year. The target group with the largest number of employees - those involved in all action plans for the protection of jobs - must be over 55 years of age, and 38 percent of the total number of people supported in 2016. Over the past four years, the government has supported the employment of workers of the oldest age group with a total of HUF 183 billion. This is obviously a 50 percent discount from the social contribution tax, after not exceeding 100 000 HUF, so employers pay only 11 percent in 2017 instead of 22 percent social contribution tax in the case of employment of workers over 55 years of age, which saves employers 11 thousand HUF per person per month and 132 thousand HUF per year. Thus, when we talk about improved employment figures, it includes, among other things, such measures, which have helped not only to increase employment but also to keep jobs for hundreds of thousands of our countrymen who are approaching pensions. We were able to help their safety with these measures. I would also like to respond to Mrs Dóra Dúró's speech because the government has launched wage-raising programmes both in higher education and in the field of public education and in culture. We have to say that the career of educators, which has increased or increased the wages of teachers by 50 percent, will still have a next phase on September 1st this year. [[Dóra Dúró: Basic salary!]] This has also partly led to an increase in other careers, since many of the mixed institutions, whether in the field of health or in the social field, or from the field of career-starting university teachers, such as a high school teacher status, have become so great that someone has started teaching in high schools rather than in the social field or in higher education. That is why it was important, and it was obviously also important for the financial appreciation of workers in other sectors to make those increases. If you look at how a teacher with 18-20 years of experience has changed his salary, his salary will grow from 172 thousand to 304 thousand 500 HUF on 1 September this year. And there are quite strong budget lines for this, as the total surplus of HUF 264 billion 300 million that the government has spent on the teacher's pay table in the previous years and this year is also felt in the teachers' pay table. As regards higher education, a 15 plus 5 plus 5 percent increase will be made. This means that if I multiply the overall 27 percent increase in wages, to which the government devotes HUF 16 billion, and affects 14,000 university teachers, researchers and teachers, the gross salary of a teacher in grade 3 will rise from HUF 437 thousand to HUF 528,000. And also for those working in the cultural field, we can talk about an average gross increase of HUF 27,000 this year, and the government also planned for HUF 5.4 billion. Obviously, a higher wage increase than any wage increase can be said, only this wage increase differs from the wage increase of the other parties, say Jobbik's wage increases, that this has been achieved, and not only in promises; and from the increase in wages of the MSZP in not having to take it back later, because we do not pay them on credit, but the surplus performance of the Hungarian economy has helped the government to give them. In the coming years, as we hope and expect economic performance to continue to increase, further wage increases are expected in these sectors. In the case of teachers and healthcare workers, we can say that we have increased wages to a greater extent than the economic growth. [[17.50]] Thus, the government has been able to provide much more on the basis of its own decisions to workers in these sectors than the economy has, by the way, increased, than the surplus has, by the way, been produced. It also shows that they are a priority for the government in education, health or social fields. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-243	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr László Szabó State Secretary is next. Here you go.
u2017-04-10-244	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If you will allow me, I would not go into the details, because we have heard a lot of details from Deputy Minister Rétvári, and we have heard that there have been very dramatic increases in salaries in almost all areas of the public service in recent years, and there is even a plan to improve the wage situation for those working in public service and public affairs in the coming years. At the same time, it is very important to see that we are facing a very different kind of problem now than in 2010. In 2010, we were struggling to find work for people, but now the biggest challenge is to find people for the many jobs that have been created in the meantime. Of course, by introducing a dual training vocational training system in time, this also means that we are increasingly able to meet the needs of industry, and we are increasingly able to provide workers with more and more specific vocational training skills, thus making them more competitive on the market. You can also see that the number of people who went to community service is quite large, so many tens of thousands of them have migrated back to the private sector and to the world of work. These are the results that I think we should discuss first, and of course the level of wages comes only after. But if you have a job, if you have a family supporter who can provide the family with wages and salaries, it's actually a very serious achievement that you should be proud of. Let's not forget: we went down from nearly 12 percent, now we have almost 4 percent unemployment, this is a huge development, over 700 thousand new jobs have been created in Hungary over the last six years, and this has started a natural process. Of course, raising the minimum wage will increase all wage levels in all industries nicely and gradually. We must not suddenly change the level of wages, as this would be at the expense of Hungary's competitiveness. It is important to pay attention to the fact that Hungary's relative competitive advantage must be maintained on this front. Now that the minimum wage has risen so aggressively, it is a very good news for those living on minimum wage, but companies, small and medium-sized enterprises, must be able to manage this money. And that is why it is good that there is a lot of job opportunities, a lot of delivery opportunities, that large companies continue to consider Hungary attractive and that more and more small and medium-sized enterprises have the opportunity to carry out export activities and supply activities, which also means that we can make this kind of dynamic economic growth sustainable in the long term. And, as Deputy Minister Rétvári said, we are not spending the money of the future in advance, but we are producing these values ourselves, and the Hungarian population will make a successful living in the long term. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-245	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr István Tiba, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2017-04-10-246	Thank you for the opportunity. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Today's debate is an extremely important issue, but in the case of a superficial approach, we can draw semi-truths or even misleading conclusions. The fact that there are different wage conditions in the countries of Western Europe and the former Eastern bloc, I believe that none of us dispute it. We also do not dispute that this is not just the case, but that we are talking about a problem that has existed for decades. [[Martin Gyöngyösi intervenes.]] Nevertheless, we are talking about a problem that has existed for decades. In view of this, it is not worth saying that this problem could be solved in a short period of time, even in a few months or years. There have been serious differences for a long time, and these differences are likely to persist for a long time. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: This is a new economic policy.]] Of course, this assessment of the situation must not turn into acceptance or resignation. We therefore need to ask what processes we can identify in the field of employment, wages or taxation, in what direction Hungary is moving in. In my speech, I will focus on changes in the tax system, among the factors that significantly affect the situation of Hungarian families. In recent years, a number of measures have been introduced in the tax system to support families and businesses. In 2010, the government decided to change the former SAI system and introduce a single-key tax of 16%. Then, further reducing the burden on work in 2016, the change rate decreased to 15 percent. As a result, wages in Hungary are also subject to a very low wage rate in the EU comparison. In contrast, in recent years, the level of personal income tax has been increased in many EU countries, such as Portugal, Spain, Ireland, Latvia and Greece. However, the Hungarian government has chosen a different route and is constantly reducing taxes on wages. As a result of the transformation of the tax system, the percentage of employer and employee withdrawals in excess incomes fell below 50 per cent in all income categories. In view of this, we can say that the current Hungarian tax system does not penalise additional work, wage increases, nor does it encourage the concealment of incomes. In the pre-2010 period, at the time of the Balliberal Governments, the average tax wedge was more than 53 per cent already in 2009 and the steeply rising progressive tax rates were even more severe than the average wage. Thus, Hungary had the highest - 71.5 percent - excess labour tax on average wages in the OECD countries, which is true for many other years between 2002 and 2010. In other words, Hungary is at a disadvantage due to socialist governments in the regional competition for attracting foreign capital and jobs. The government's actions to date have proven their effectiveness. As a result of the tax cuts implemented and the measures taken to whiteen the economy, the grey economy has fallen substantially, and today we can say that more people have jobs in Hungary than ever in 23 years. The family benefits introduced after 2010 also helped a lot in the situation of Hungarian families. Let us not forget that in 2006 the socialist government abolished the benefit of families with one and two children, and reduced the tax relief of families with three or more children, as well as limited income. Thus, until 2010, only a number of three or more children received family tax benefits. After the change of government, the amount of the benefit increased significantly for them, and families with one and two children were also entitled to the benefit. We should also not forget the introduction of a family contribution allowance in 2014, which will provide additional support for families with children. While HUF 12.5 billion in 2010, families with children were able to use a discount of HUF 240 billion in 2015. Families with three children are supported by a discount of HUF 70.5 bn and a further HUF 37 bn, leaving a total of HUF 107.5 bn for the three or more children in 2015. This also means that in 2015, a quarter of the tax returners, some 1 million 150 thousand people, could apply family tax incentives, 130 thousand more than in 2011.From 2016 until 2019, the government gradually increases the family benefit of two children to double in 2015, increasing the income situation of the affected 360,000 taxpayers by nearly HUF 15 billion a year. In the 2015 annual sija declaration 21 500 individuals used the discount for half a billion HUF. In the monthly contribution statement for December 2016, 23 700 people validated the first married person's benefit, so more than 40,000 people are expected to benefit from the annual declaration. [[18.00]] From 2017 the family discount and the first couple's discount can be applied independently, so the first couple's discount reduces the couple's tax liability by an additional HUF 60,000 in addition to the family discount on an annual basis. The annual minimum wage and guaranteed wage increases, public wage increases, wage increases in the competitive sector, where the government has no direct impact on wage developments, tax reductions and low inflation have led to a 23.8 percent increase in real earnings across the national economy between 2010 and 2016 taking into account family benefits. Hungary, the Hungarian economy, has been performing better since 2010 and is strengthening, for which recognition and thanks are due to Hungarian workers and employers. The government and Fidesz aim to continue this positive path in the future, and the economic problems that remain in the lives of Hungarian families should be further reduced. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-247	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Ms Bernadett Szél from the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2017-04-10-248	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Well, now would be a good time to bring some life into this debate after the party propaganda read out catatonicly, because I would like to clarify two basics. One is that we don't spend our Monday afternoon here to make it past eight years, I don't care what you think of socialist governments, tops. we could last seven years, but I am not interested in party propaganda, because otherwise we should talk about how Hungarian wages can be caught up in the EU's wages, so that a lot of Hungarian families do not leave the country, not the children will be born there, but this country will finally be able to make progress. The fact is that you, fellow Members of the Government, seem to have nothing to say about this, which is quite desperate. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] But on my part, I'm drawing conclusions from this. Let's see. Secretary of State, you said that the public service had a dramatic wage increase. Now, the thing is, not the wage increase is dramatic, but the situation in public service is dramatic. We should have put 300 billion forints into this sector, then we would have been able to make sure that there was no workers' poverty in the public sector. What do we call workers' poverty? It's called employee poverty if you make less money than you can make a living. For years, you have governed this country by the fact that everyone who worked for minimum wage earned less than they can make a living on. What we suggested, this 300 billion-dollar injection would have been able to make it above all wage categories for the minimum wage. In spite of the elimination of the minimum subsistence calculations at my former workplace, we know exactly how much Hungarian families can make a living and how much they can't. You don't know, you really say that you can make a living here for 47,000 forints, but the fact is that no, you can't make a living, and in Hungary, Hungarian families would need enough to live because I think that XXI. It is part of the livelihood of the century that if someone wants to provide education to their child, he can pay for it if you have already been so kind and have made a significant part of universities and colleges pay, which we do not agree with. If there's any money to be spent in this country, it's not your backyard, they've got enough, they've stolen enough, but rather education and health care. Speaking of the Union, I would like to tell you that two nurses and three doctors leave this country every day, simply because they cannot make a living in health care with the money they earn there, and the circumstances are terrible. Try, go to a hospital with a broken hand or whatever, try to see what conditions there are, that Hungarian people are dying because there are no rooms that are sterile and that they can perform the operations. [[Peter Cseresnyés: Jesus! Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] Be kind, look around the world... [[Constant interruptions from the pro-government benches.]] I'm not lying, you don't know what's real, because you're sitting here in Parliament instead of looking at what's going on out there. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Look at how your partymates have been stealing this country for the last seven years. What about education? Not long ago we talked about why you are closing a university, not even a university, the best university in Hungary. The fact is that LMP, on the other hand, would give 20 out of 100 budget forints to education, because we know that it is the 21st. There is a great deal of money to be spent on education and health in the 20th century, and we would govern it accordingly. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] Since you're all so freaked out, I don't know what's gonna happen to you by the end of 15 minutes, we're only at three and a half minutes, so take care of yourselves. [[Defiance. Intercoms from the pro-government benches. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Your faction couldn't stand it! Where's your faction? Your own faction won't listen!]] With regard to the minimum wage increase, the situation is as follows: [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That we proposed to reduce the employee contribution, because this is what Hungarian citizens immediately feel in their pockets, and their net is immediately rising. It should not be left to the employer to give it to the employee or not, but to reduce the contribution in such a way that it is inevitable that what the worker receives in his pockets will grow. You have rejected this 6.5 percent reduction, which we have proposed, just as the tax-free minimum wage has been rejected, so count towards the Hungarian people. With the single-key tax system, you have introduced a tax rate or a tax system with which everyone who earns under the average wage will suffer. Now, two thirds of the Hungarian employees are earning under average wage, and from now on, you've spotted me with these employees, I can say that you've been spotted by most of the country. There's the community service system. Well, that's a lot to talk about today, too. I would like to advance that nowhere in the world there is a public service system such as that which you have tried to introduce in Hungary. And it's not because everyone in the world is stupid and only you are the smart ones, it's because it's not a functioning system. There are two consequences to the public work system that you have done: one is that the local Fidesz barons have been able to cement their power, they can keep Hungarian citizens in check by giving them community service or not giving them community service, and the other is a direct means of breaking wages. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] In vain, it was the Possibly Other Politics who found out that all over the country, workers who work for decent wages - as normal wages as they are in this country - had been fired or taken back to the same position on public employment. I turned to the Ministry of the Interior, Mr. Secretary, do you have a response to this - have you investigated the cases that we have discovered? Do you have all the cases, have you examined them? [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] Have you made sure that this never happens again? Because it doesn't seem to me that letters continue to come to me, which are about the fact that the public works system in Hungary is being severely abused. Well, the thing is, we really need to start this whole story over, we need a whole new economic model. In 2010, you lied to everyone here that you will give so much support to the multinationals that within five years you will have to pay back, there can be no more than 5 million forints per job, and at all, you will strengthen a local economic development and internal capital building capacity here in the country. Instead, what are they doing? They're continuing the socialist model. Nothing has changed, and this, with which the Secretary of State stood up, is the neoliberal text of Virtigli, which, I'm telling you, has failed everywhere in the world, but there are other politicians like you who have stayed here from the previous century and are trying to make us swallow it, that it's good for someone else. Of course it's good. It's good for your oligarchs. It is also good for those who pocket all the support from the Hungarian taxpayers' money that you provide with all kinds of opaque contracts. Soon there will be the edge at the Mansion when they finally tell us exactly what is going on in this country regarding strategic agreements, how much individual tax relief has been granted to individual actors, how much exactly the multinationals have received from Hungarian taxpayers to come here to work. 'Cause the thing is, we see what you promised us, that in five years, we'll be paying 5 million forints tops. In the workplace, what a multi-company receives is where six times, there was a multi-company that received 30 million forints for a job. Well, ask a small and medium-sized entrepreneur what he could do with this 30 million forints. 'Cause how much does he have? 1-3 million forints per job, and then you'll be happy. Is this how you strengthen the small and medium-sized enterprise sector? But they are the ones who stick with us through fire and water, and they are the ones who don't pick their tents if they offer better conditions elsewhere. It's your big strategic mistake, and be kind, don't embellish me with this failed economic policy, your strategic mistake is that they took you and continued what your socialist ancestors did. It doesn't make any sense, it seems that the country is drowning in this economic policy. We laid the foundations for a new model of economic policy, and we told them what was needed. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: To raise taxes!]] renewable energy sources are needed. The Prime Minister has now said that there will not be a referendum here in his vision, but a minister without a wallet, as if there were not enough people in the government, there has never been such a government in this country in the last 27 years. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] The fact is that, on the other hand, we would put energy in renewables, precisely because this is what can create crisis-resistant jobs, and this is what can guarantee Hungary's sovereignty. That's where the building insulation is. What's the point of heating the Hungarian streets with Russian gas while people are freezing, although you don't want to tell us how many people have been like this in the past, but we know that 75 percent of the family houses in this country that used to be built are of poor quality, and those Hungarian people who live in them are cold in winter. You are not cold here in the heat of Parliament, but those people are cold. These people's houses should be isolated, which could create jobs and save energy. You said you'd do this, you didn't do that. [[18.10]] And there's local economic development. With these things I have listed here, we have said that 450 000 jobs could and could be created, because there are European Union grants for this, which, contrary to fidesz assumptions, are not meant to be stolen, but to be used for such intelligent things. We would have set up two budgetary bases, which would have financed local economic development on a normative basis, because the fact is that this is the option, this is the future. The future is not that you are trying to turn Hungary into a assembly country, where people can work for bad wages in addition to the different production lines, by continuing the policy of your fallen ancestors. So what I can tell you is that what is still to be said here is that, in the European Union's outlooks, Tibor Szanyi has been saying in the last few years that, yes, there is a need to harmonise wages. You can do this, but there are certain rules to this, and I would expect Fidesz-KDNP to try to motivate the European Union through your party family to talk about such things. I do not expect the Hungarian Prime Minister to pass the social pillar and talk about the fact that we are being attacked everywhere from Brussels. No. I would expect you to go there and tell the European Union that, indeed, we are not second-class, and we would like to apply a new type of division of labour. We do not want their various production lines to be relocated here, but we want to create an innovation centre that invests in the knowledge of Hungarian people, of course we need a good education, and we can ensure a higher level of production throughout the European Union. That's the way forward. It's not that we're third-rate citizens here. The fact is that you can influence the European Union, because we are all European Union citizens, and there is our opportunity, and there is our space to promote processes in the right direction. Instead of making stupid poster campaigns with the Hungarian taxpayers' money, we have to fight where things are going and where they are taking place in Brussels, and you have to stand there and make the various changes that are appropriate for the Hungarian national interest. In the meantime, of course, it is necessary to use a style to please these people to listen to Viktor Orbán and the other politicians, because they do not help the Hungarian people by communicating on the international stage in an insufferable style and travelling everywhere with Vladimir Putin in a wide world. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] For example, it is important to adopt a common minimum wage regulation. This is really important, and this is what I remember Tibor Szanyi talking about, which says that on the one hand, the minimum wage must reach the minimum wage and on the other hand, it must exceed 60% of the average wage. This would be a sensible proposal, which the European Parliament has already debated in this regard. I would like to know exactly how the Fidesz politicians of the People's Party argued in this debate. The rent scissors must be closed. This should happen gradually, step by step. But it is not a solution for you to come home here, scold Brussels for everything, go out and do virtually nothing for wages. The social pillar must not be plowed, but taken into account that it is an important function of the European Union to bring people in need of society closer to the level at which the differences between countries are falling. The kind of model that we are seeing now does not work, nor does it work, the kind of style that condemns the social pillar, and turns everything into an attack on Brussels that is virtually pointless, which could give room to a meaningful dialogue. I think, based on the past period and the hours spent here in this debate, that Fidesz-KDNP is not a sensible debate about how the Wages Union can be implemented. I would like to hear concrete ideas, not how they explain their certificates at home, but what they do outside to increase the wages of Hungarian people in Hungary, and what they do to increase the wages of Hungarian people here in Hungary. We can talk about this, sensible suggestions. The party propaganda is all over the attic. We don't want to hear about it. We don't want to hear about it. We don't want to hear about it. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-10-249	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Member of the European Parliament to speak directly, taking into account the order of the independent Members. I would like to inform you that Mrs Krisztina Morvai has given 7 minutes of the time frame set by the Jobbik Group to the MEP, so that she can speak within a total of 8 minutes, taking into account the possibility of a one-minute speech for an independent Member. Accordingly, I give you the floor with respect. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-04-10-250	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, As usual, I start with a story, because politics is mostly about real lives and real stories of real people. A few years ago, I took a taxi down the street, got in, and on my way home, I talked to the driver. I recognized from the advertisements the company's logo, in the hard-core price competition in Budapest at the time, they were the ones who were the cheapest advertisers of the passenger service. Although this proved to be a very bad idea later, I asked how to make a living on such a low price per kilometer. The young man was desperate and nervous to tell me that he was terribly exhausted, had daily problems with his livelihood, and he did not know how long he would endure the circumstances and misery he did not consider to be human. How bad he was, I really understood it after a huge bang, bang and a sudden headache. When I woke up, it turned out we crashed. After the shocking encounter, for days I wondered where the limit was for what is called competition or competitiveness. To what extent can costs be reduced to increase profits, including the wages, incomes of working people, and what is already unbearable, unacceptable? What is it that an employee or even a self-employed small entrepreneur has to tolerate for the competitiveness of his company or country? How self - centered can the so - called market be, and when should human dignity, the protection of a decent life, be resounded? Some time passed, and suddenly I hear that the authority has introduced uniform mandatory freight charges for taxis in Budapest, which is significantly higher than the one used by that company. And see a miracle, the cab ride in the capital has not stopped, it has not stopped, and socialism or communism has not broken out. What's more, there's a competition between companies. It has been proven that there are other competitiveness factors other than artificially suppressed low prices and income. The principle of equal pay for work of equal value or equivalent value is not unknown in the European Union. It's a principle that women get the same pay as men, because it's fair. The objective set, the existing principle, is the same for the same work, and the same wage at the same place, laid down in the context of the European legislation on posted workers. For example, if a Hungarian company sends a worker to work in Austria or Germany, the employee's income should not be lower than the Austrian or German minimum wage for the same job. The purpose of the so-called Posting Directive is logical: it is not possible to reduce the wages of local workers, i.e. Austrian or German workers, who may be willing to work for a significantly lower amount, and must work more precisely by foreign workers, especially those in Eastern Europe. The logic that has become natural today should be further thought about. What if they don't take the worker out to work abroad, but bring work to countries with lower wages, such as our country? The result is almost the same. The situation is also unfavourable for German or Austrian workers, as their bargaining position and income may be at risk if their jobs are carried abroad on account of significantly lower labour costs. Trump, too, may have been helped by this phenomenon, as this has also caused serious problems in the United States. But the vast majority of Western workers do not benefit from the fact that due to low wages in Hungary, workers migrate from Hungary and other Central and Eastern European countries to the West, as they do now. Even if we do not feel that this is fair, tensions can develop in the world of work in Western countries that are referred to as a prelude to the Brexit, one of the reasons. This is felt by the European Union, and it is therefore very possible that they would be partners in examining how to reduce the current huge wage and income differences between Western, Eastern and Central Europe. [[18.20]] To do this, of course, we have to believe ourselves that Hungary is not the main competitive advantage of low income. Life has proven that the race to the bottom, the downward race, has not worked. We must compete not in the depths, but in the heights. We can say that the low level of income as a competitiveness instrument has not worked. Hungary is not in the winning field, because many of our talented team are proving me to be a stranger. We need to raise income significantly, reduce the pay gap between Western Europe and our country, because otherwise we will not have a doctor, we will not have a nurse, we will not have a skilled worker, and there will be no children because they will be born abroad. And if there is no serious change in living standards, income conditions and, of course, in quality of life and well-being, they will not come home. On a historical scale, not so long ago, in another part of the world, there were also decision makers in a room together, although certainly not as beautiful as this one. One of them came up with a strange idea: I think slaves should be liberated. What do you think you're doing? - asked the others. What happens then? This is not compatible with the laws of the economy. Who's gonna work on the plantations then? Everything's crashing. It seemed like an impossible idea, but somehow they worked it out. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-04-10-251	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Fellow Members! Congressman Vinnai, take your seat, please. There are two-minute speeches coming up. First I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2017-04-10-252	Thank you very much, Mr President, five brief thoughts. I propose to Mr Péter Cseresnyés, Secretary of State, that before he puts the basics of arithmetic on his mouth in any sense, he should know the numbers and be closer to the truth. All I'm saying to you is that the average number of employees in the public sector in 2009 is 60,000. But it's okay, you'll learn, time passes, and practice will make you master. [[Péter Cseresnyés: This is still not 180,000!]] I don't want to get involved in pension matters like Bence Rétvári, but all I have to do is talk about it when they touch the pension issue at least as the MNB, for example, determines in its prognosis. That was 2.3-2.4 percent, and they said 0.9, and then they thought it was 1.6 in the ether. So maybe we should move on a legitimate basis in every respect. But wage growth, let's take an example. With regard to the minimum wage, it is the case, honourable pro-government representatives, that in 2010 there was a charge of HUF 34 thousand, which employers and employees paid together. Now it looks like 72 thousand forints, but last year it was 69 thousand forints. This means that more than double what is paid to employers and employees while spending less purchasing power money in their hands for five years, while the minimum wage grew by virtually 13 thousand HUF net from 2010 to 2016. That is what you should be thinking about and the minimum European wage category. Tibi Szanyi and I have been strengthening this story together with the Hungarian Socialist Party for three years, and you should also keep it on the surface at the level of the European Union, so that we can really get there once, so that the amount of minimum wages matched to the average earnings reaches 60 percent of that, not necessarily gross, if possible net. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-04-10-253	Thank you very much. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian is next. Here you go.
u2017-04-10-254	Mr President, Dear House, Since there have already been two pro-government Members who have given us a meaningful professional position, I would like to respond primarily to the State Secretary of Czomba. Jobbik's concept is not based on violent wage increases. Our model, if you take the trouble to learn about it, is a comprehensive model that improves competitiveness and improves productivity, combined with a tax system that supports production by responding to what you do not respond to, that the competitiveness of Hungarian companies is less than three and a half to four times that of Western companies. Not because the Hungarian people work less or worse, but because they have been able to create an economic climate where in their strategic contracts they not only unduly favour the multi-networks, but they have never once concluded the intention of at least the wage compensation, at least the long-term framework. We've got a Globopolis scan ahead of us, anyone on your smartphone can reach you. This only shows how this can be done in other ways, based on the examination of regional countries. We find that while the dozens of largest multi-company companies in Hungary have an average tax burden of 0.35%, the same value in the Czech Republic is above 20 percent. More than 60 times more public spaces there are almost the same companies without tearing up cables, leaving the country. So what the Prime Minister and his team have told us in Saudi Arabia, for example, is that Hungary can only be competitive because of cheap labour and flexible labour codes. It's not like that at all. Strategic contracts should therefore be rethinked, productivity and competitiveness development in Hungary and the colonial status that emigration is a symptom of should be abolished. Because, for example, the unresolved situation of foreign exchange lenders has led to the fact that many people here pay their foreign exchange credit from Western wages. Do not pretend that these phenomena do not exist, because we have brought here the intention of a systemic, comprehensive solution, so treat this with the necessary seriousness. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-04-10-255	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr. Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-10-256	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not necessarily want to respond to Nándor Gúr's arithmetical example, but suppose it was not 70,000, but 60,000, as he said. By the way, in 2010, the number of public workers was 70,000, but let's make it 60,000, as he said. 60,000 out of 210,000 are still 150,000 and not 180, what you said. So you can talk about it, Congressman, but no matter how much you sugarcoat it, if not in scale, but you've made 20 to 30 grand wrong, probably with will, in order to mislead people. I would also like to say a few things about the minimum wage. Again, what I said in my introduction: in the eight years between 2002 and 2010, the gross amount of the minimum wage increased by 47 percent. It is not true that the total minimum wage was tax-free because it was tax-free up to a certain level and then had to pay a minimum tax there. Not much, but we had to pay a minimum tax. [[Dr. István Józsa: Now you are fully taxable!]] At the same time, in addition to the 47 per cent gross increase, cumulative inflation was 51 per cent. Then where do we stand with that, Congressman? What do I understand about the minimum wage that people working on minimum wage could bring home? Which is why I pressed the button, and that was Bernadett Wind's speech, not without all emotion. But it also tells a little of my better fellow Members, because they have put a similar question or suggestion to Bernadette Szél. The European Wages Union is not our proposal. We have demonstrated how our employment policy, our economic policy, has increased employment in Hungary, how unemployment has fallen and how wages have increased. So there is a kind of government policy that goes forward, which reduces differences in European wages, and this has been proven to have been effective so far. The European Wages Union is your idea. We do not need to propose solutions to what needs to be done with regard to the European Union of Wages. You wanted this debate, you have to tell me what you want to do. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches, if we're on the wheel!]] That if they were on the government, what you would do, how you would do these things, and what the consequences would otherwise be. Because there have been these kinds of speeches, they have also been heard from the mouth of our fellow Members in the MSZP, and they have also said similar things. But we know what they did between 2002 and 2010, what happened at the time, what happened to the Hungarian economy, what happened to the Hungarian budget, what happened in the area of wage policy and employment policy. So if I were my fellow opposition Members, I would be careful to express such demands when we are called upon for a completely different economic, employment and wage policy. We have the policy direction in both economic and employment policy, which shows results and figures. [[18.30]] The fact that you want to do something else should prove its effectiveness even in speeches to you, and you should tell you how you imagine it. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: That's right.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-257	Thank you very much. We will continue with the two-minute speeches. We're going to meet Mrs. Bernadett Wind from the LMP. Here you go.
u2017-04-10-258	I think the Orbán government has been doing nothing but fighting higher wages since 2010, and I will prove it to you, although I did not think of such a courtroom atmosphere here in the Hungarian Parliament, but if you have asked me to prove it, I will prove it. [[Peter Cseresnyés: That's not what I said.]] Since 2010, they have been constantly fighting against higher wages: civil servants' wages have been frozen; institutions that have weakened or just been crushed that cause higher wages; the Code of Work, as I said, has been destroyed; they have practically pursued a policy inherited from the Gyurcsány government; this is the seduction of multinational companies with all kinds of tax incentives; they have led to tax credits; education and research have been held back; we are now at the point where they want to close universities. Now, in an area, it is clear that wages have been increased at the level of the clientele. And you, ladies and gentlemen, are making more money than before. [[Peter Cseresnyés: It's not true!]] "The bank president Matolcsy makes better money, and there are a few other medals, wages have increased by 100-300 percent. It's the most facial example of this in public companies, which is that there's a 40-fold wage difference between a single worker and his boss. So be kind and come here more prepared and tell me exactly what you're so damn proud of. I told you about our proposal, we want a sustainable reindustrialization, we want a local economic development, we want you to spend 20 forints out of a hundred forints on education, and we want a multi-key tax system to work in the country. And, unlike all sorts of State Secretary's announcements, if our tax system were to work in Hungary, those kind voters who earn minimum wage would bring home 26 thousand forints, who earn an average wage, would earn 237 thousand forints, but would also benefit those who earn double average wages, because they would have a net value of 422,000 forints. Our proposals on the EU have been made. We consider it a good first step if the minimum wage is set at 60% of the average wage. Adding that average wages are a very deceptive thing, because they include - few - those who make very good money, and they raise the average of those who are many and make bad money many times. This is the case in Hungary, at least. You can't be proud of that.
u2017-04-10-259	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. On behalf of the government, Mr. János Fónagy, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2017-04-10-260	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congresswoman! I would like to reflect on his earlier and recent sentences. Congresswoman, big voices and malice are scarce. Without wanting to be personal, believe me, an opposition representative without responsibility makes much more money than a secretary of state. We worked for a 2010 paycheck. I was an opposition representative, too. I made better money then. So believe me, you're the one who's doing the right thing, not us. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: That's right!]] That's one thing. The other is, what you'd do when you're on the helm, please let us know if you're there. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew: All right!]] For now, there's nothing but his big voice. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: That's right!]] Here's the deal: 160,000 people working in public services, power plumbers, network plumbers, drivers, bus drivers, because their boss is making too much money, five people in the country, and you're making $160,000, shame on you. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: That's right! Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-10-261	Mr. Secretary, I don't want to get personal right now, I think that was a strong sentence at the end. [[Dr. János Fónagy: Excuse me.]] That's because he said that to a lady. There will be regular speeches. Mr Simon Miklós, from the Fidesz Group, is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-10-262	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Socialist Party decommissioned the Hungarian Defence Forces between 2002 and 10 [[Zoltán Grimlock: And what did you do in New Whiteton? The president's ringing the bell.]] Complete military equipment and weapons have been booby-trapped. The Hungarian Socialist Party also drew attention to it in several places [[Intervention from the ranks of the MSZP: You would not be a representative in the rule of law!]] that the highest value is the soldier, the man, and they must be valued. Well, this is highly controversial, because the last significant and comprehensive wage increase for the Hungarian army before 2015 was provided by the first Orbán government at the beginning of 2002 [[Dr. István Józsa: The Medgyessy government.]] not the socialists between 2002 and 10, because there was no increase in wages. [[Dr. István Józsa: Yes, you can. Zoltán Grimlock: 50 percent!]] Between 2002 and 2010, the Hungarian Socialist Party put the country in a state of bankruptcy, under the leadership of Ferenc Gyurcsány and János Veres. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] As a result of the consolidation of the economy from 2010 onwards, the necessary resources were available for the government to decide - of course as part of the introduction of the new military career model - on a salary increase programme between 2015 and 2019, resulting in a salary increase of 30 per cent for soldiers with effect from 1 July 2015 and an average increase of 5 per cent per year until 2019. The salary increase can therefore take place in several steps. We do a number of things to ensure that the Hungarian Defence Forces are uploaded, so that young Hungarians can feel that military service is not only noble but patriotic. We do appreciate soldiers. It is important to have a long-term career picture in front of soldiers and careers, and therefore, in addition to the salary increase programme launched in 2015, we are constantly responding to labour market developments in favour of a stronger economy, which are all important steps in the process of raising salaries. The last such increase affected all crew members, thus giving special consideration to the crew's service. As a result, among non-graduating soldiers, the lowest unpaid salary of the public soldiers has now increased to 186 thousand gross, to 197 thousand gross, to 207 thousand gross for the corporals, and to 228 thousand forints per month for the squad leaders and for the crew with graduation. The Hungarian civil servants did not miss out on the decisions on the introduction of sectoral careers. From 1 July 2015, civil servants in the health, public education and cultural sectors of the defence sector took part in the implementation of the relevant sectoral careers, while civil servants who did not receive specific sectoral wage development received a salary increase of 5-5 per cent on average from 1 July 2015. This was the so-called sectoral bonus. It is clear that, unlike socialist governments, we really try to appreciate the Hungarian Defence Forces. Our goal will also be achieved in action, fellow Members. When our soldiers worldwide stand up and defend our borders in the midst of migratory pressures, we can truly express our appreciation and respect for them in the form of a salary increase. Our goal is to suggest predictability with all this, making military vocation attractive. We are the only ones who have taken steps to achieve this goal. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-263	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr István Józsa is coming from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman. [[18.40]]
u2017-04-10-264	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't mean to be personal, but the Simon Miklós before me didn't take one step away from giving up his immunity when his colleagues were taken to prison; perhaps he could have another discussion about salary increases and wage rates in there. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: What are you talking about?]] I do not want to be an unnecessary expert on economic policy, but for the sake of my learned colleague, Mr Vice-President, I note that this economic policy that you are pursuing here is a highly restrictive economic policy. So when you mention what happened here during the global economic crisis in 2008-2009, it would be good to realize that it was a global crisis. So it's a restrictive economic policy. However, after the global economic crisis, you should have noticed that there would also need to be an investment boost for GDP in the country. You may have pushed this investment up in some circles, along with Mészáros and Mészáros, among some perhaps less known names, but in the average economic statistics, it can be said that the investment rate has fallen roughly below 20 per cent. About 20 percent of the experts say that what is above the level of simple reproduction is really an opportunity for expansion, if it is below 20 percent, as the investment rate was around 16-17 percent in your first years, it is not enough for simple reproduction. It's what's built up the backlog that we see as a fact in today's wage ratio. I do not wish to personally reprimand Mr. Secretary of State Fó Nagy for being rude to a lady, but, nevertheless, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, doctor of law, there is one thing that he has been very wrong about throwing averages is extremely deceptive. Because you are pursuing a wage policy primarily using a single-key tax that significantly favours the top 10 percent and significantly punishes the lower 20 percent. They're trying to do all kinds of manipulated numbers here on the evolution of minimum wages, embarrassing schoolchildren, mixing gross with net, and they're able to make increases of it by state secretaries without blinking their eyes. It's hard to really be serious, not to laugh, to get mixed up in these things. That's why the school, the economics high school, has a secunda, number one. So what I'm saying is that they're trying to look at this wage structure they've achieved. It's very deplorable. When the Magyar Nemzeti Bank brings out, under the leadership of a highly appreciated Dr. Matolcsy, that the average deposits of Hungarian depositors are HUF 4 million, this is a nice number, but it turns out that 80 percent does not have any savings. Then what are you so proud of? ! It was a Eurostat survey two years ago that 70 percent of families should hold on to: an extraordinary expenditure of EUR 200 cannot be dealt with. 200 euros, 60,000 HUF is a problem for 70 percent of Hungarian families. So you're so proud of that, the average savings are 4 million forints? Where does saving amount to 4 million forints on average come from? The 10 percent you favour and the consumption of it is actually lacking in the development of the Hungarian economy. It was an accident that the President of the United States was doing what he was doing these days, and by the way, Trump might be fooling around, because 85 percent of US GDP consists of the third sector, the services, so the internal market is taking the economy away. Next to it, 15 percent of weapons are repressed into the world, this, that, that, but there is a level of internal traffic through services that can fit in with the sayings, such as the 85 percent there. Now, this is where we are badly behind Hungary, because most people are so poor that they can't sustain this service industry, they can't develop it, they can't use demanding services, because they can't afford it. So when we talk about wage catch-up, it's really your failed economic policy that we have to criticise, because the result is that income conditions are very different from one layer to another: the top 10 percent is close to Europe; the average and the workers' actions below mean clearly poverty. That is why we say that the net of the minimum wage should reach 60% of the current net wage. It is a European idea, it is true, that you will be given the heroine from Europe, but believe me, there are already some things that have succeeded, and perhaps better than you. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-10-265	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Szászfalvi is coming from the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-10-266	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Before 2010, the decline in the economy and the drastic increase in unemployment were characteristic of socialist governments. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó's intervention.]] In the period since the change of government, the Fidesz-KDNP governments have prioritised the recovery of the Hungarian economy and the reduction of unemployment. Many numbers have been said about this in today's debate. Thanks to the reforms and the sacrifices of the Hungarian people, the Hungarian economy has grown stronger in recent years. Unemployment has fallen significantly since 2010, as we have heard, from 12 percent to 4.3-4.4%. The Hungarian government has stabilized the budget and set the country's economy on a growing path. This has allowed for a long-term agreement between employers and workers, a significant increase in minimum wage and minimum wage for skilled workers and a predictable increase in wage levels for public sector workers. Dear Parliament, These measures have also brought about a change in the employment of foreign workers in Hungary. In the first half of the 2000s, the number of people working in Hungary from third countries was very high. Most work permits were issued to Romanian, Ukrainian and Slovak citizens. The number of foreign workers in the domestic labour market was highest in 2004, with around 64 thousand people and a significant decrease following Hungary's accession to the EU. From 2009 to 13, the number of EU citizens employed in third countries and working in Hungary, with a work permit, was around 10-10 thousand. The number of employees from third countries continued to decrease, while the number of workers from the EU has increased slightly in recent years. Foreign employment has been concentrated mainly in the Central Hungarian region since 2002. In particular, the importance of the capital is outstanding, which is one of the key centres of employment for foreigners. The employment of third-country nationals is territorially different from those from those from within the Union. While the number of third-country nationals is the highest in the regions of South and North Great Plain and West Transdanubian, EU citizens with the right of free movement and residence are typically employed in the more developed Central Transdanubian region. Romanians, Slovaks and Ukrainians are currently the largest number of people employed. Thus, the employment rate of foreign workers decreased from 1.3 per cent in 2002 to 0.7 per cent in 2010 and to 0.4 per cent in 2016. The increase in employment after the change of government in 2010 was therefore entirely, you can say calmly, with the involvement of domestic labour resources. [[18.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Allow me to draw attention to some training and re-training programmes that have helped and helped significantly, and are still helping, the labour market situation and employment policy. The government is committed to facilitating the placement of persons leaving the public sector in the competitive sphere. The government offers the persons concerned the opportunity to participate in various employment promotion courses. We support the implementation of training courses that meet market needs, as the chances of employment of individuals are significantly increased by the acquisition of new vocational training. Employment departments in the county and metropolitan government offices and district offices have the resources to start courses. In addition, other forms of support are available, which are also offered to job seekers by district offices individually. The programme "Road to the labour market" provides opportunities for retraining, in which the government supports the training of job seekers and inactive people over 25 years of age. At the same time, it is also possible for an employer who is not a budgetary body to receive tax relief and support if he employs a person who has left the public sector. The employer may also apply for tax relief and wage support from district offices within the framework of the Career Bridge programme. The same opportunities, re-training and further training opportunities are also available for small and medium-sized enterprises and family businesses, which can be provided flexibly for business specialisation. I would also like to highlight the public employment pilot programme which also contributes to supporting employment policy. This special public employment programme was launched on 1 July 2016 to increase the employability of job seekers who are not employed for mental, social or health reasons. The Ministry of National Economy is responsible for providing support for labour market services, which was insured for HUF 62 million under the employment fund of the National Employment Fund. The aim of the provision of the service is to facilitate the exit of participants in the special public employment programme in the primary or secondary labour market. Finally, let me mention another training programme in GINOP, within the framework of a GINOP proposal: supporting thematic projects to improve labour market adaptability. Employees and employers' interest representatives may apply for, inter alia, activities to protect older generations in the labour market. The planned priority themes of this proposal include addressing labour market challenges arising from an ageing society and promoting active ageing, tackling and exploiting diversity at work, promoting intergenerational cooperation in the fight against discrimination in the workplace and in the labour market. I believe that these instruments, these forms of training and retraining support, have contributed and will contribute to preserving positive results in employment policy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-267	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now coming from the Jobbik Group that Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of Parliament, will speak. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2017-04-10-268	Mr President, Dear House, It is often argued that the level of wages is determined by the degree of productivity. That's the truth, but it's only part of the truth. If we look at Western and Northern Europe, we can see that productivity is, on average, double that of Hungary. This would, in theory, mean only twice as much wages in the regions of Western Europe and Northern Europe if we start from Hungarian relations. However, we know that Western European wages are not twice as high, but that they are five to six times higher, and even seven times higher in Northern Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, However, there is another very important, perhaps even more important, indicator in relation to the level of wages. This indicator is the strength of the trade union in that country. If we look at the context, it is not surprising that a strong trade union system and high wages are hand in hand. Masses of studies show the work of Western European trade unions, their constant day-to-day reconciliation with employers and governments. Obviously, I don't have the opportunity to present this right now, but I would like to put it as a simple axioma that a strong union is equal to a higher wage. It is clear to me that an increase in productivity cannot be achieved without trade unions which, thanks to wage negotiations, crowd out companies whose productivity is based either exclusively on hunger wages or entirely obsolete technology. These companies will be persuaded to develop technology and work organisation, of course together with the government, with loans and grants to help companies that are willing to shape the situation so far. This will create a situation where a company that refuses to develop and is willing to work only for hunger will not benefit from a competitive advantage over a well-functioning, modern company. In Western and Northern Europe, it is precisely because of the competitive disadvantage of such exploiters that employers themselves form industry bodies and unanimously accept sectoral wage agreements. As interesting as it may be, this, like the former guilds, simply eliminates bunglers, weak performances, who lower the quality of goods and salaries. Returning to trade unions: legal reinforcement is essential and they must also be involved in the tasks necessary for their growth that are already in their profile. I would just like to highlight a few things in this regard. Strengthening labour law protection is a very important issue in Hungary. We need a lot more law enforcement. More budgetary resources should be allocated to this, especially through the support of trade unions. Establishment of a labour market and economic research institute. There is hardly any such in Hungary, there is no such thing at union level. This is a common practice in Western Europe and Northern Europe, of course. Often, wages are raised by the operation of these institutions and the trade unions negotiate with the government. A wider organisation of recreation for workers. This is also a typical task to strengthen the trade union movement. The creation of a voluntary unemployment fund. In northern Europe, this is practically exclusively the area of trade unions. And we know that in Hungary - in Europe, in an amazing way - only three months are available under the title of unemployment benefit, and then it's done, it's over, it's run out. It takes two years in northern Europe, please. In addition, workers receive wages from two sources, on the one hand from voluntary sources, and the state also provides resources for unemployment benefits. In the case of adult further education, which has just been discussed, there is a need for greater participation by trade unions, who is in constant daily contact with workers and employers and who knows best what kind of training is needed in the given situation. There should also be a much greater role for trade unions in monitoring compliance with OSH rules. Finally, it is necessary to ensure that trade union leaders, managers of works councils are not at the mercy of employers and are completely independent of them. New legislation is needed. [[19.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, Wage catching up is a very complex matter, and we have a lot of elements to discuss. But one thing is certain, without radical changes in the trade union system and licenses, we will not succeed, because without a strong union there are no high wages. Unfortunately, this has not been discussed today, but I hope that some of my fellow Members will think about it, because Western Europe's society would not work without it. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-10-269	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We now have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Mr. János Volner. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2017-04-10-270	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to some of the things that we have just been discussing here. Why isn't the Hungarian economy spinning? Because the certain income share that Congressman Józsa mentioned is what economists call a discretionary income, is not available in Hungary. This income is not available in a small part because, along with family members, about three and a half million people have been left in the trap of foreign exchange lending by the government. When they took action in this regard, they acted in a way that also reduced the quality of the bank's loan portfolio by giving the best-paying and sure-paying debtors the opportunity to be wiped out. Later, this went on by pushing the exchange barrier to solve this problem for five years. There is no doubt that the active, burden-bearing part of the Hungarian population was left in the foreign exchange loan trap. So in no small part, this discretionary income ratio, which could otherwise spin the economy, give jobs, order to the small business sector, is not available. As a result, the Hungarian economy is in decline, and our competitiveness is essentially dependent on external inputs that do not depend on us at the moment. We do not depend on the size of EU aid. Here, I note only in brackets that Hungary receives 5-6 percent of the EU's GDP support, and we can produce 1-2 percent of economic growth. It's an absolute negative scale. The automotive economy is not up to us, which only employs 144,000 people in Hungary, but the government is very proud of it. And it is not up to us, I must say, to the performance of Hungarians working abroad. 3 percent of GDP is transferred home by Hungarians working abroad, worth a thousand billion forints. Because of these, the Hungarian economy is currently the patient and the wages are low. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-10-271	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. This is a two-minute speech by Congressman Zoltán Gőgös. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-10-272	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. There's no Simon Miklós in the room, is there? It's bad enough. What I would like to say to him is that not all workers are as lucky as he is that his wife can give him a multimillion-dollar reward. Then they would also have smaller problems for Hungarian workers, but it would be good to think about that before making such sublime statements. If I have understood this debate correctly, we should talk today about why, let's say, the papal butcher who works on the American line is looking for a third, as if he were to go 60 kilometers to Austria, on the same American line. At least I thought from the title that we should do something about it, we should talk about it, not about what was in Hungary in 2002. I would just like to say to my fellow Members that the gap in wages has become even bigger after 2010. As the crisis in the European Union went on, the demand for labour became much higher, wages increased in scale there and Hungarian salaries only increased in gross terms. See minimum wage, Mr State Secretary, the real value of which has now reached the 2010 level. By the way, it is a good thing that they raised huge ones, that the companies were happy about it, that some of them were ruined, but that didn't make the worker in the pay envelope much more; it is now in the 2010 real value, if inflation is taken into account. So I think what we should do now is try to find an incentive system, which is also true of our profession, and it is true, for example, for the next cycle organisation of European Union aid, that it is, where there are workers, which is also in agriculture, only those who can receive normal support, adequate support, who can add the highest added value, and who can employ people at an appropriate wage level. From here on out, the country's problem would be much smaller. 'Cause I don't think anyone's arguing that the biggest gap is in agriculture, because the moment someone goes from Csorna to work in Austria, they're not going to see triples, they're going to meet six-to-seven-fold salaries. I think that's what we should be talking about, not what happened in 2002.
u2017-04-10-273	Thank you very much, Congressman. Another round of regular speeches. I am speaking from the Fidesz Group to Mr Robert Balázs Simon. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-10-274	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In this debate, which lasted more than four hours, we have touched on many, many topics. I'm trying to mention a few things that may not have been discussed in so much detail. The first of these may be tax incentives and, to be exact, the action plan for the protection of jobs.2013. From 1 January 2006 the targeted benefits introduced under the Action Plan for the Protection of Jobs are intended to promote employment for those disadvantaged by the labour market, such as young people, small children, those with low education and older people. The primary aim of the benefits is to encourage employment, provided by employers' tax incentives for workers in target groups. I note that no EU Member State currently applies discounts as widely as Hungary. The range of beneficiaries continued to expand: from the beginning of 2015 the full benefit can also be paid in part-time employment for HUF 100 thousand or above. In addition, in order to further increase the employment of workers in the agricultural sector, an interim extension of the employment protection action has also taken place. Under the new job protection discount available from 1 July 2015, employers may benefit from the social contribution tax for workers over 25 years of age and under 55 years of age employed in agricultural jobs. If you look at the number of job protection benefits in the competition sector from 2013 until January 2017, this shows that more than HUF 500 billion, to be exact, was used in the form of a discount of HUF 508 billion. In January 2017, job protection benefits helped to employ 871 600 employees in the business sector, totaling HUF 8.9 billion. The number of workers employed with a discount increased by 16,400, 1.9 percent compared to the same period of the previous year, i.e. 2016. The second point I would like to make briefly concerns corporate tax and the taxation of small and medium-sized enterprises. Let us not forget that between 2002 and 2010, the overall corporate tax rate increased from 18% to 19%. The Fidesz government was already aiming at the introduction of a single-key corporate tax on its entry into office, which should be achieved by 2020, as defined in the Stability Act. Several steps have been opened to achieve this, in line with the budgetary room for manoeuvre. Thus, for the first time in 2010, a reduced corporate tax rate of 10 per cent was introduced for small and medium-sized enterprises up to HUF 500 million instead of HUF 50 million. Then the corporate tax rate decreased uniformly to 9 per cent from 2017. Thus, according to calculations based on the projection of tax returns, some HUF 145 billion remains in business. The single 9 percent corporate tax rate is currently the most competitive in the European Union. I would also like to point out that the abolition of the upper tax rate is not only beneficial to multinational companies, because it has also benefited a number of smaller companies with a few hundred employees, which constitute the backseat of the Hungarian economy. It should also be borne in mind that the two favourable tax forms introduced in 2013 for SMEs, such as Kata and exclusivity, have been introduced. In order to encourage the competitiveness of the smallest companies, the revenue threshold of HUF 6 million for kata increased to HUF 12 million from 2017. [[19.10]] In order to reduce the administrative burden, the threshold for the tax exemption of the general sales tax increased from HUF 6 million to HUF 8 million, partly linked to the increase in the threshold for the selection of the kata. The excavations also benefited better from 2017 as the tax value of the kiva decreased by 2 percentage points from 16 to 14 percent. With the simplifications adopted, the tax liability has become more predictable and more favourable. This form is worth even more companies to choose with the changes to the capital, staff development and revenue threshold. I would like to mention here that in order to reduce the administration, the system of payment of the health contribution was significantly simplified in 2017, with only two keys remaining instead of the five keys so far. Finally, about domestic wage differences: domestic wage differences cannot be called large at all. We expect that the significant increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage in 2017-18 will further reduce wage differences in Hungary. In the year of the change of government, in 2010, the gender equality ratio was significantly higher, with a figure of 4.25, and the ratio above 4 was typical for the whole period of previous governance. Thus, during the socialist governments, wage differences were greater, which the civilian government continued to reduce. Ladies and gentlemen, We can say that the Hungarian economy has been growing since 2010, and that the aim of Fidesz and the government must be to continue this strengthening in the next period and in the coming years. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-275	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the group of the MSZP, Mr Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament, will be followed by a proper speech. Here you go.
u2017-04-10-276	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Balázs Simon Robert also spoke about important things in his former thoughts. He talked about the events of the job protection action plan, and I admit it, I accept it, I think it's necessary, but it wasn't the beginning of the story seven years ago, but the start of a million new jobs in the economy. So, gentlemen, ladies, a million new jobs in the economy should be created, not by all kinds of manipulation, tossing figures into the ether here, and then, obviously, to argue about differences between 5 and 10,000 people, as Peter Cseresnyés tries to ride on such things, but all of us know that they have done almost nothing of it. Of course, there's the cheeky skin when they say in the ether that there are nearly half a million people in the economy, and we know very well that obviously that's not the case. Everyone in this country knows almost all but you, or you should realize it, or reality should not be denied, if you are aware of it. Look, if you want to do something sensible, if you want to do something smart, for the good of people, then you're obviously going to touch on the type of questions we've been talking about for three years, which we've been pushing, which is now found in European Union decisions, including, for example, that you're using the gross of the minimum wage, the gross of the average salary is 60 percent. I always say I should have your net, and I say that because of you, for your protection against you, because you play well with the gross. Here, too, we have seen, within the framework of today's parliamentary debate, how much the minimum wage has increased. The gross, the yes, the dog is a lot, but they always forget to say it, or they don't like to talk about it, that behind this gross growth, the government comes to the extra income of the employer and the employee, which can be regarded as excessive, because compared to a state six years ago, when it was HUF 34,000, now it is HUF 72 thousand. In Hungarian: eviscerates employers and employees, while the minimum wage grew by HUF 13 thousand in net terms from 2010 onwards. Do you understand? ! Meanwhile, the tax burden increased by HUF 34-35 thousand, it was collected, and the net cost increased by HUF 13 thousand. That can be considered absolutely correct, from your point of view, I believe that you think so. The money they collect is being scattered among the friends. It's okay, so it's okay, based on your philosophy. I think that we should not serve our friends and our pereputies, but the people, for the vast majority of the people in this country. This increase in load is, in effect, a level that already coincides with the category of insolence. It is not random that, in the last six or seven years, the rate of emigration from this country has been as high as it has been. Over 600,000 people! But what does this 600,000 people look like? 80 percent of the population is under 40 years of age. With professional qualifications, knowledge in their hands, in their minds, people who have left this country needing to come home. If you had started a moderate wage development seven years ago, there would have been, could have been a result of this story, because it would have put a stop to this emigration process. No, that's not what you did. What you have done is how and how you can practically squeeze these people, whether you leave this country, and drive them away. The fact that they have migrated, obviously, is a loss to this country, is also a loss, while many new, fresh sources have come to this country, and some of them have been stolen, obviously putting productivity and efficiency in obstacles. This also leads to a difficult exit from this harness. It is not random that the wage level is low, it is not random, because, in addition to all this and all of this, workers must operate within the framework of poor working and bad legal environments. Recall on 1 January 2012 the Labour Code, which laid down conditions for the employee, the representative of interest, and even for the employer in certain situations, which are not very favourable. He gave them one more opportunity to hold the employee against the wall, and he did not even give the employer, the representative of interest, the opportunity to do what he had previously done in the interests of the worker. It is no coincidence that everyone today is fleeing, fleeing this situation, where appropriate, from this country, and looking for ways to make a living elsewhere. No, it is not European wages that are already in the eyes of people, no matter what they say. Unfortunately, in terms of the Visegrád Four, the approach and approximation slowly became the target surface, simply because what I just said could be shown grossly as if we were approaching, but the net situation is quite different, and, you know, the net that goes into the hands is the money, the effective, the spendable, that's why you can buy in the store. It is no coincidence that we are at the end of the line in terms of per capita economic growth, we are the fifth from behind. It is no coincidence that you always say gross wages, but, in terms of gross wages, we are also the sixth in the European Union's relations. The minimum wage for the Visegrád Four countries is apparently higher even in terms of the minimum wage, even in terms of gross. If you look at the net, the resources that came into your hands, then this story is even more true. And if we look at the fact that in Hungary even two years ago, and even last year, it was true that more than half of the employees did not earn the minimum living per capita, it is true that the minimum wage is no longer the same. Not even the minimum wage. In Hungary, 54 percent of the working people earn up to the minimum wage. This is the situation that you should face, because the share in Europe is quite different, 10-20 percent lower, for example. The change between the gross and net of the Hungarian minimum wages, or the evolution of the Hungarian minimum wage, has taken place with the scissors opening since 2010. [[19.20]] The scissors open, so its gross growth is higher than its net growth. That's what they're trying to fool people with. You know, factually - also to Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary, that if he was going backwards to know - the difference was that in 2010 there was about 13 thousand forints difference between gross and net, while in 2017 it was now about 43 thousand forints. 30,000 forints more, Mr Secretary of State, the difference between gross and net. And there's an increase in withdrawal. The tax burden on low-income earners is one of the largest in Hungary compared to the EU 28. I have to say that if we have already considered this, then, in terms of minimum wage - 22 out of 28 European states, there is a minimum wage - we are one of the last ten countries where the minimum wage is below EUR 500. Well, we're not even in the ranks, but we're in the middle of the middle. But if you look at gross hourly wages, I will give you two examples: Denmark and Hungary. In Denmark, this is roughly the equivalent of EUR 25. In Hungary, the amount is between EUR 3,5-4. This difference cannot be justified in terms of purchasing power, nor can it be explained. Obviously, there is something to be done in this regard, but that is not what you are doing. You're the people who don't belong in your circle, the people who earn relatively little, let's say, below today's average wage levels, you're not very interested. There is maximum exploitation in Hungary today. Think of the living example, the activity of Hungary's gas mechanic, its economic activity in 2012. I'm using balance sheet data. After 2012, Mészáros takes up HUF 800 million in dividends, employs 225 people in 2012 and pays HUF 157 million in total to 225 people. Meanwhile, once again, after the economic results, you will receive a dividend of HUF 800 million. What if it's not exploitation? In Europe's central areas, the minimum wage is around EUR 10 per hour. In Hungary, this corresponds to EUR 2-2.5. This cannot be explained by differences in purchasing power. Maybe what we're talking about here is a few words that the government has to do, say, with regard to tax justice. In the European Union, the tax that is not paid is equivalent to 20 times the Hungarian GDP. When it comes to a European medium of 500 million and we are one 50th of a lifetime, this means that we are talking about an unpaid tax equivalent to EUR 40 billion. That means 12,000 billion forints. This means that one third of Hungarian GDP. In this respect, with regard to black employment, you should be a sign of cleaning up processes in the black economy, and you could then strengthen processes that could lead to the minimisation of workers' poverty and prevent, curb migrations from the country and lead to real wage cuts, not the rise in gross wages. I have to say, there will always be wage differences within the country, even outside the country. You can see that the wage difference within the country is HUF 108 thousand, HUF 226 thousand and HUF 118 thousand between Budapest and Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, although there is little to say about purchasing power parities here. How could there not be a wage difference in relations between countries and countries? That's not the point. The point is that the country should be able to achieve parametrics in terms of the lowest, minimum wage, minimum wage, minimum wage adjusted to its earnings conditions, with a view to pushing wages from the bottom up. And you also have a responsibility to do not only to increase the minimum wage or the guaranteed minimum wage, but also to earn the same or even more income as before, but also to ensure that wages above this are not constrained, to move forward in terms of such wages, and to make wage improvements there. You know what? In terms of working conditions, they should also make changes there, simply so that people are willing to undertake work with a good heart and security. In my last thoughts, I would like to confirm once again that there is no need to talk about wage growth, employment growth, not to be manipulated. No. You don't have to lie in people's eyes about the fall in unemployment when you've pushed hundreds of thousands of people out of supply systems. Even those who, due to the loss of their ability to work, obtained a monthly allowance of up to HUF 22 800. You don't care about people's misery. You're interested in registration, and that's how you can back it up as if it's better. It would be better to deal with people's problems instead, to try to induce positive-oriented processes on human issues. And once again, for the last time, in terms of wages, I would like to say that the first thing that they should be aware of is that gross wages should not rise as the charges increase, but that the government should be able to give up revenue, to give up revenue surpluses, and to forge for people to appear as a net resource in the hands of people, simply so that a fairer world can be lived, something behind which there are decent income relations for people. Mr. President. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-10-277	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mrs Mónika Bartos. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-04-10-278	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that there is no discussion between us that reducing the wage gap between the EU Member States is desirable and that everything must be done to achieve results in this. The difference between our thoughts is what means, how we can achieve this, what tools to use, and whether to pay for it, and what and what price to pay for it. In terms of assets and the price paid, we also decide what kind of world we want to live in, what kind of world we want to build, what means we build it, and what basis we put it on. Several times, President Vona mentioned, among other things, that different levels of pay have historical causes, often the consequences of centuries of economic and political development. This is a true fact, and it is not worth arguing about, but it does not have to be accepted, and I believe that the results that have been made show that the pro-government side has not accepted it. But I believe that, as the level of wages achieved so far has been achieved through economic and political development, so should the subsequent one, which must be part of an organic development. It should be based on performance, good governance and national cooperation. Otherwise, we will only build a castle built on sand, it will be a bubble, it will burst, it will collapse, and we, pro-government representatives, do not want to build our children's future on sand. For those who doubt that performance brings fruit, the facts contradict. Mr State Secretary and my fellow Members have also mentioned that we have achieved outstanding results since 2010 in the V4 countries and in the EU countries in terms of the minimum wage increase and its results in purchasing parities. The fact that performance and good governance have had an impact on raising wage levels shows that while we were chasing the others between 2002 and 2010, we have jumped to the forefront since the current government's reign, including among the V4 and the EU Member States. Gross and net average earnings have also increased significantly more in national currency and in purchasing power parities, such as Germany, Austria or the United Kingdom. [[19.30]] We have been able to make a significant approach to the wages there, and we have also improved our position significantly in the average of the V4s. In terms of gross wages, the Hungarian wages reached 90-112 percent of the Visegrád countries, representing 77-83 percent in net terms. We must also bear in mind that the strong wage dynamic in 2016 exceeded the rate of wage growth in other Visegrád countries and the increase in Western European countries. The wage agreement concluded at the end of 2016 is an additional incentive and the 40 percent real wage increase over the next six years is an additional decisive step towards catching up with developed countries. It is undisputed that we have achieved significant results, and it is also undisputed that we have achieved this with work, performance and national cooperation. I think that the person who questions this question is questioning the results of the Hungarian people's work, which I am very sorry for. It is also true that artificially increasing the level of benefits without economic performance threatens the stability of our country. On the other hand, it has been said that it would be a groundless, sand-based construction, an example in some countries, which, unfortunately, has a result. The immediate demand for equal pay for equal work does not lead to equal pay, and we should even face a number of negative effects. Companies in the new Member States, including Hungarian businesses, would be excluded from the internal market because they would not be able to produce the required wages. The workplaces of Hungarian workers would cease. Of course, the management of wages for capital-powered businesses in the old Member States would not be a problem, so the former would exacerbate their competitors in Central and Eastern Europe from the market, so they could easily get rid of them. Moreover, taxes should also be increased in order to maintain public services. It can be seen that we have achieved results in raising the minimum wage and gross and net earnings and in purchasing power parities. Keeping wages in national jurisdiction, significant wage increases in recent years and a multi-annual wage agreement can be the key to making more progress in catching up on wages. In recent years domestic wages have increased significantly above productivity, even internationally. Wages will continue to increase in the coming years, but performance growth will be the key to this. This has a major role to play for domestic SMEs, and it is therefore very important that we can use the EU funds that can be used effectively. Several people have mentioned that it is important to change the economic structure. That is true, and we still have a job to do in this area. This can be catalysed by the increase in the minimum wage and the minimum wage for skilled workers, so that the labour force flows from less efficient jobs to sectors producing higher added value. All of this focuses on our fundamental interest in keeping wage determination under national jurisdiction in all respects. This is how we can ensure that growth is stable and lasting and that our future is built not on sand but on solid foundations. I think it's the responsible attitude and the responsible path. And if I may, Mr President, I did not press for two minutes, but I would like to respond to one thing that my fellow Member, Dóra Dúró, raised and said by others. He said that some professions lack labour because people go abroad to work. But this lack of labour has a more serious, even serious background, and this is the demographic situation. Unfortunately, Hungary is one of the countries where the population has been declining for several decades, 40 years, and the government is trying to stop this trend with success, with the family policy it is pursuing. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-279	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Tibor Bana is next. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-04-10-280	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The European Citizens' Initiative on the Jobbik Wages Union is extremely important, because if we look back on the past years and look at the seven years that have passed from Fidesz governance in this respect, then we can conclude that the amazing differences in wages and salaries have contributed significantly to the fact that many of our fellow citizens, hundreds of thousands of Hungarians, have decided to look abroad for opportunities, try to find luck there, and try to find prosperity for themselves and their families. However, when we talk about this and evaluate the process of emigration, it is worth talking about other factors, which I would try to do in the next few minutes. I believe that it is important to examine these issues both from the workers' side and from the employers' point of view, even because I have received specific signals from Vas County in this regard. Dear Parliament, With regard to the new Code of Work adopted in 2011, we can say that it is an anti-family measure that has made their situation more difficult by including the working time limit in law and increasing the vulnerability of workers. You should see that while in Austria, where trade union support is 70 percent, they have not yet been able to turn Saturday into a weekday, in Hungary, where the typical trade union support is around 20 percent, this method of employment is already widespread. The most popular form of free weekends is the 5/2 model, the essence of which is Saturday work with an everyday rest. This is rejected by the overwhelming majority of workers. Ladies and gentlemen, If companies, the multinationals, put the working time framework to the top, then Western countries will benefit from the well-trained, loaded young Hungarian workforce, so the willingness to emigration will continue to increase. This Code of Work does not provide the conditions for the beautiful and sound objectives set out in the Fundamental Law, such as harmonious family life, but contains provisions which are contrary to it. Therefore, Jobbik can promise to radically change this law following our accession to the government in 2018, thereby reducing the vulnerability of workers. Let's look at the employers' side. We have already mentioned this on the EU-funded debate day, where I spoke as one of Jobbik's leading speakers about the fact that the priority projects are going fast, because these funds are going to buddies, they're going to a tight, channeled circle, but we can see that small and medium-sized enterprises are choking on the other side of the bureaucracy swamp. Dear fellow Members, Fidesz, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Companies close to you are busy, and in many cases we can see that their tax debt of up to a hundred million magnitude has no real consequences, while Hungarian small and medium-sized businesses, who do not have such a strong Fidesz connection system, are constantly fighting, and the whip is on top of them, cannot benefit from the subsidies. Jobbik can promise that, after the parliamentary elections in 2018, if we can form a government with the support of Hungarians, we will create a situation in Hungary so that businesses can compete fairly. With transparent, predictable and clean relations, we will achieve lasting, long-term and sustainable economic growth, the results and fruits of which can be felt by the Hungarians themselves, and the practice that has been characteristic of interest-based money distribution in the last 27 years and under the Fidesz administration, Jobbik will put merit-based and value-based support at the heart of its policy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-10-281	Thank you very much, Congressman. We now have two-minute speeches. First I give the floor to Congressman Miklós Simon. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-10-282	Thank you, Mr. President. István Józsa and other Socialist Members had just been harshly slandered at the time of my speech. Please stop lying. It is not my fault, Honourable Congressman Józsa, that Paks has received hundreds of thousands of HUF's salary, and that is why your resentment speaks of you. So I'm rejecting these slanders.
u2017-04-10-283	Thank you very much. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Did you write this on paper?]] Although it's not a two-minute attack, it's a personal attack, but we're over it. Mr. János Volner is next, please. [[19.40]]
u2017-04-10-284	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Our fellow Member from Vinna has made false allegations about the city of Tiszavasvári. I would like to correct that very briefly. One was that Jobbik couldn't create a job. To my fellow Member, since he has already gone home, I would like to say that once he is given this message, Jobbik began in Tisavasvári by taking into the city a company that created 120 jobs, the Vehicle Assembly Company, which created an industrial culture together with jobs for the city. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] I would add that when Jobbik is blamed for not increasing the wages of municipal workers, it is clearly a government responsibility. I and Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, sitting behind me, have repeatedly initiated that the civil servant's salary, which you have frozen in 2008, should be raised at least as much as inflation has been since then. By the way, I proposed a 25 percent increase in the previous term, but you voted against it every time. The law that could be used to increase the wages of local government and other workers has been voted down, once again. The fact that Jobbik increased the salary of the better deputy mayor doesn't hold up. It was raised centrally, and it was decided by your government, and the salary increase was 17 percent. I would like to record these because many of my fellow Members on the government side have repeated these open-color lies. I'm asking you not to be like the pro-government press, which has lost dozens of lawsuits to better politicians for lying. Don't let that happen here. This is the church of the nation, it's only fair to tell the truth. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-10-285	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to ask the speakers in the debate, with all due respect, if they wish to speak under the pretext of personal concern, to make a point of order, because it is within the authority of the President who will lead the debate to determine whether and how these speeches are in fact capable of complying with the gravity of the case. Mr Zsolt Legény, from the MSZP Group, is next. Here you go.
u2017-04-10-286	Thank you for the opportunity and the floor, Mr President. According to the President's instructions, I don't want to deal with personal matters. Of course, I will pass on the message of Mr Simon to my fellow Member, but it is easier for me to tell him, because we are sitting in the same group. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental question of today's debate is why wages in Hungary are much lower than the EU average in the European Union. To raise these wages, increase the wage level in Hungary and, of course, reduce migration, the Hungarian Socialist Party would have a number of suggestions, since one of our most important goals is that everyone can make a decent living from the wage they earn. My fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, and others have mentioned this: a very central issue of our proposal would be that the net value of the minimum wage should reach 60% of the net wage. My fellow Member, Mr Gur, explained why we would like to operate with the net, so to speak. At present, the net amount would be HUF 84,788, according to the Hungarian Socialist Party's proposal, this minimum wage would already be more than HUF 20,000 more than the current one. We also need to point out that, in my memory, Parliament last raised the public service salary base in 2008, so there has not been a salary increase in the public service in nine years, i.e. a wage increase. I think this is unprecedented in the history of the Hungarian administration. Therefore, we believe that a substantial increase in civil servant and civil servant wages is inevitable. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that a list of studies has been published recently on the basis of which we regret four Hungarian regions in the 20 poorest regions of the Union, the 20 most deprived regions of the Union. One of these, by the way, is the region from which I come, the North Plain region. We think that's why people are leaving anyway. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And that's why they're going west. We should, of course, remedy these. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-04-10-287	Thank you very much, Congressman. A proper speech will come from the Fidesz Group, Mr Tamás László. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-10-288	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, First of all, I should like to thank the initiators, because I see that there is sufficient time for us to explain the poetic, approach and orientation of ars in all aspects of the world of work. What I can see from the debate is that there was little response to that direction, to that series of efforts, either Jobbik, LMP or MSZP, which is in decline enough. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew: They're stronger than that! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: There are no more of you in her proportions!]] Of course, I think that the road since 2010 is a very successful road, despite the fact that it was a very rough road and it was a very difficult road, we are not entirely satisfied. I'll say a few sentences at the end of it, of course. If we look at the internal structure of employment and unemployment, or if we look at differences within the country, we cannot be satisfied, but the road we have been on since 2010 is definitely an extremely important and successful road to the world of work. The first thought is what many people have already said that we believe in a work-based society. This sentence has been repeatedly said that if there is work, then there is everything. This approach also addresses social issues in a safer and more sustainable way, and in this framework we can take better account of strengthening competitiveness, increasing productivity, increasing value-building capacity. The work-based system can be adapted, developed, while the non-performance-based and non-performance-based system is definitely a dead end. We have a lot of negative experience of this, especially when we think about the governments of the MSZP. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Another very important thing is that if we look at the current parliamentary parties, the Fidesz-KDNP fraction is the only one for which the principle is to align the degree of stretching and the length of the blanket. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: What is it? Dr. Zsolt Legány: Self-Glory!]] The coordination of demands and opportunities is not an art in itself; the rule is very simple: wage increases are possible if economic growth, productivity and competitiveness support this. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: The economy is running fast, isn't it, Congressman?]] My topic is employment and unemployment. It's a connected couple, if one woman, the other necessarily falls, and vice versa. In addition, it can be said that there is not a static state in this area, as soon as it stops, let's say, the increase in employment, the immediate drop-off occurs, i.e. an internal dynamic has to work here, because we see that it is easy to slide down, but it is sweaty to rise. We have experienced this in the period since 2010. Let's talk about numbers, separated from 2002-2010 and beyond 2010 in terms of employment and unemployment. This may be an answer to what the Socialist Members have said, because they are now asking for a lot of things, but they have done nothing during this period, despite the fact that much of the period 2002-2010 has been characterised by a favourable international economic economy. However, between 2002 and 2010, the number of people employed decreased by about 140,000, while the number of unemployed doubled, from 240 thousand to 470 thousand. The employment level of the 15-64-year-old population fell from 56.2 percent to 54.9 percent, while the unemployment rate increased from 5.8 percent to 11,3 percent in these eight years. I think that is a snap answer to what the Socialist Members have said. In an international comparison, the domestic employment level was the lowest among the Member States of the European Union by 2010. During the period 2002-2010, scissors opened significantly between domestic and EU employment levels, while in Hungary employment was characterised by a downward trend even before the global financial crisis, which was deepened by the crisis. Following the change in government in 2010, there was an employment change in Hungary, the main feature of which was that it became one of the most important government objectives to increase employment. [[19.50]] We've had a lot of action, in general, targeted, in all sorts of ways. As a result, the number of employees increased by 620 thousand between 2010 and 2016, while the number of unemployed fell by 235 thousand during the same period. It's worth thinking back to the numbers I've been saying for the past eight years. The employment rate increased from 54,9 per cent to 66.5 per cent and the unemployment rate decreased from 11,3 per cent to 5.1 per cent in the period 2010 to 2016. The number of employees not only exceeded the level before the global crisis, but also reached the highest employment rate since the change of regime. On average, the number of employees in 2016 was around 4.4 million, while in 2010 only more than 3.7 million people worked. A significant part of the growth, some two thirds of it, has occurred primarily in the labour market as a result of dynamic growth and job creation in the competitive sector. Since the change in government in 2010, Hungary has been able to increase employment faster than the average growth of the European Union. As a result, the employment level of the population aged 15-64 2016 III. It reached the European Union average in the quarter, which was 67.1 percent at the time. By doing so, Hungary has practically met its 2020 target, which was to achieve the EU average. Unemployment was also very different in the international comparison between the two government periods. The labour market situation in Hungary deteriorated at an extremely rapid pace between 2002 and 2010. While domestic unemployment was significantly more favourable than the EU average in 2002 - only 5.6 percent compared to 9 percent - the situation changed fundamentally by 2010 and the Hungarian unemployment rate was already significantly higher than the average of the 27 Member States. Domestic unemployment exceeded the EU average before the global crisis and continued to increase at a faster pace in the period 2007-2010. Following the change in government in 2010, the development of domestic unemployment was essentially characterised by a different trend. Hungary was already the third country with the lowest unemployment rate in the European Union in the last quarter of 2016. At 4.4 percent in Germany, where there was 3.5 percent, and in the Czech Republic, where there was 3.6 percent, there was lower unemployment levels at the end of 2016. That's where we are now, but let's look forward to 2020. The Europe 2020 strategy is the EU's employment and growth strategy for this decade. This will focus on smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, which will address structural weaknesses in the European economy, increase competitiveness and productivity and lay the foundations for a sustainable economy. By 2020, the EU's strategy aims at 75 percent of the 15-64-year-olds mentioned above being employed. It's an incredibly ambitious goal. From 54.9 percent to 67.1 percent - these Hungarian figures - it was not easy to raise employment, but increasing it from 67.1 percent to 75 percent was much harder. This also means the transformation of the current employment structure, including the use of 60% of the European Union's cohesion funds to strengthen Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. So the government is definitely working on plans for further job creation, additional intensity, productivity growth from 67.1 percent. This is done by a radical increase in the amount invested in innovation, the introduction of productivity-enhancing processes in industry 4.0, and thus a significant strengthening of our competitiveness. This is another story, which we are all in, continuing to increase employment and reduce unemployment, which, of course, will naturally go hand in hand with the rise in wages. I think we need to work together on this. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-289	Thank you. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2017-04-10-290	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, If we are talking about full employment and who has benefited in the last 7 years, I should first mention that under the Bajnai government there were 85 people who were members of the government, they were State Secretarys and they were Deputy State Secretarys. I'm telling you this because there's a layer that's been really good for the last seven years, and you have to start with them, because they're less than the rest of the million people in this country. Now we are talking about the fact that the number of people working in the government has swelled to 176 with the State Secretarys and Deputy State Secretarys, it is true that in 2010, bureaucracy was said by all media and all government members. But there are still over 176 prime ministers, five prime ministers, 15 prime commissioners and 15 prime ministers. This is a total of 216 people to reduce, reduce red tape and reduce staff. Well, I think that if we talk about full employment and the allocation of government-related positions, the third Orbán government has done very well in this. I would like to return to the minimum wage, because there have been constant vomits about how well the increase in the minimum wage has worked in recent years. I will say it again, before me several of my fellow Members spoke: in 2010, the minimum wage was 73,500 forints in gross terms. This was HUF 60 236 net. Then, in 2011, it was HUF 78 thousand gross, net 60 600 HUF. In 2014 we reached the minimum wage of 101 500 HUF. My fellow Members, do you remember how much of this was net? 101,000 forints? 66 483 HUF! In four years, it was raised to 101,000 forints, and its net was barely increased by 6,000 forints. Then it is 2017, 127 500 forints and 84 788 forints net. The gross has increased by 54 thousand forints, the net, which remains in people's pockets, is only 24 552 forints. And then let's look at the fact that the tax paid to the state, which must be paid, the contributions were paid for HUF 34 212 in 2010 and HUF 72 760 in 2017. Netly, the employee took 24,000 forints more home, and the state took 72 760 forints more. Then who was in favor of raising the minimum wage, honourable Members? Who benefited greatly from the workers? The state. You're the state. Mónika Bartos and several people were singing here about how much we caught up on minimum wage and salaries to the Member States of the European Union, and he pointed out in particular that the wage scissors had fallen between the Germans and the Hungarians. Well, I beg you, we'd like to earn as much minimum wage as the Germans do. The minimum wage is now 464,000 forints. By the way, in European Union countries, we are also the hosts, of course, we drive everything from behind. Bulgaria, the Czech Republic and Romania, with a lower minimum wage. [[20.00]] Then what are we talking about, fellow Members? What we've been listening to... excuse me. They still refer to the period before 2010, and many of you even brought up 2002. I beg you, they've been steering for the seventh year. Seven years! There's nothing left to point back. If we point fingers, they should turn to each other and point fingers at each other that you did it, and you and you voted for it, and because of you, people live worse. [[Gábor Bányai: Oh, my God!]] That's what we say, "Oh, my God, believe me, when we go home and meet people." The other is that they are constantly talking about - I think, and then Mr Secretary of State will respond - how many children are born is one of the success indicators of a country. Let's get this over with. In 2008, at the time of the crisis, almost 100,000 children were born in the country, 99 149. Then came the ominous 2011 when 88 049 children were born in Hungary. Then the situation improved a little bit, and in 2016, it was upped to 93,000. I'm very glad you're here, Mr. Secretary, because I'd like to get this straight. Last week I was at a conference where the Hungarian Academy of Sciences admitted that in the current data published by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences... - since they changed the data transmission of the workers, how many people work in Hungary changed the birth rate, so those children who are born abroad and receive a Hungarian birth certificate are included in these statistics. Minister of State, how many children are actually born in Hungary every year? So these data are much worse? Does this 93,000 have 11 to 12,000 children a year born abroad? Mr. Secretary, let's finally tell each other the truth. Let me get this straight. 'Cause then it's really tragic. Next, they kept talking about Erik Bánki's speech about how family-friendly governance, how much support they gave to Hungarian families. Then how is it that 77 percent of after-work taxpayers don't earn the average wage? Seventy-seven percent of those who pay taxes after work! Then I will really return to my first sentences, and I repeat that it is a very, very narrow layer that has benefited today in Hungary. Let me give you one family example, Mr. Secretary: the person who was on welfare in 2010 or the smallest aid now, if I understand correctly, will receive 22,000 and a few hundred forints net, because for some reason he has not been able to get a job since then, it is true that he is not in any system today, but he is raising three children, and besides the three children, the mother will not get more with a naughty iron in 2017 than in 2010. Not a penny! And that's not one or two thousand families. If you look at the family model where three children are raised again, the father and mother are reported to be on community service, earning a minimum of more than in 2010 - with a few thousand forints. But there is a very narrow layer in Hungary that we call elite, they gave them everything, it can earn up to three or four times that. If she raises three children, she works, and she's lucky, because she's not right, but she can make three or four times that family. You know, Mr. Secretary, this is a very distorted distribution system. We give everything to a tight layer, and the others do whatever they want. It should also be said that almost 70 percent of the twenty - year - olds and almost a third of the thirties live with their parents in Hungary today. This is not because they like to live at home in the mama hotel, as they say in the West, but because they have no chance at all to start a single life or to have an independent home to start a single life. We haven't even talked about how many people left this country. I told you about the demography that one in six children is born abroad today. Believe me, I say to my fellow Member who spoke before me, if things were as rosy as you have painted in the last few hours, then the emigration from Hungary would not still be so strong and it would make sense for these young people to come back. They don't want to come back. The tragedy in this whole thing is that if he wants to, he won't come back, because the kids are born abroad, and he's gonna decide it's better to stay abroad if he wants to give his kid a chance. Because your children will have a much better chance of getting along in the world than coming home to Hungary. I can bring up the destruction of the education system right now. Yes, we have seen on the news since János Áder managed to sign the CEU Act. We may have had some kind of hope that there was a normal person among you, but it seems that sometimes that's something to be debated. We trusted that our last resort was that, for some reason, János Áder also had his own daughter at university, and she would realize that if her daughter could go to such a university, then someone else in Hungary might have to be given an opportunity. What's the next university? Who else needs to be reprimanded in Hungary? Who hasn't shown the means of power in this country yet? They spoke before me, especially my fellow Member Attila Mesterházy, about inequality between women and men. Believe me, fellow Members, it is not acceptable for everyone to have a job; I am talking to the solo in front of me. No, it's not enough for everyone to have a job. It's not enough that I have a job. A decent salary is also needed for a family and Hungarian people to enjoy themselves in this country. If they get a decent salary, they won't decide that they're not 20-30 now, but unfortunately, they're my age and my age to leave this country. Trust me, after seven years, they won't be able to beat us to it. They will no longer be able to blame us, after seven years the Hungarian people will not swallow it. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. Laszlo Varga applauds.]]
u2017-04-10-291	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai.
u2017-04-10-292	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, In today's debate, which has lasted several hours, I think there is only one thing that we all agree on, namely that wages must be constantly increased and European wages must be joined. The only problem, and I think it is very regrettable, is that when Fidesz and KDNP put forward a proposal that serves this purpose and we have to pass it through the budget, the opposition rejects it. In other words, they are not partners in bringing Hungarian wages to European wages. I think that it cannot be undone that a model for wage increases and careers was created in Hungary after 2010 and that we are taking decisions one by one that will increase wages. There has been a lot of talk about the minimum wage for skilled workers, but we can talk about the multi-annual processes provided in career models. Well, they all serve the purpose of increasing wages in Hungary and, if you will, of catching up to the average of the European Union. But once we get to it, I don't think we need to be afraid to set a higher purpose than that. I therefore think that if the opposition makes a proposal in achieving European wages, then we can expect, at the very least, that the proposals that the government is proposing, supporting, not only orally, but also with their votes. [[20.10]] And an interesting question is how wages and taxes relate to each other. If we look at the wage situation in Hungary, which we are constantly increasing according to the performance of the economy, and we look at wages in the European Union, and we really see here that we have to catch up and close down, but if we look at taxes, we see that tax conditions in Hungary are much more favourable in many areas than in the average of the European Union. We pay the least personal income tax, business tax is significantly lower than in the European Union. I think that if we want to catch up on EU wages, that's okay, that's what we do, but we do not want to catch up with EU taxes. I think that all reasonable people realize that it is not possible, that a budget cannot be drawn up in such a way that wages are suddenly raised significantly and that taxes are kept substantially lower; we need to find some balance in the ability to raise wages and reduce taxes. And the balance between these two will create the ideal state of balance with which we can balance the budget. If we look at the inflation rate in Hungary - and there are many people here who have talked about the loss of wages - please, there has hardly been inflation in Hungary for years! Wages are increasing, and expenses are falling, so how in the world do you claim that the salaries are being lost? The opposite is precisely our goal, and that is why we are taking measures to ensure that family budgets develop in such a way as to increase family incomes and reduce spending. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to mention a section of employment and wages that has not been mentioned today. One is the question of increasing women's employment and the other is the difference between men's and women's wages. Fidesz and KDNP pay particular attention to supporting the return of mothers with small children to the labour market and the maintenance of those with a pension, as well as to enabling working parents to coordinate their family and work obligations as easily as possible and supporting employment is of paramount importance for women. Our strong goal is to achieve a positive demographic turnaround. To this end, security is essential, I am referring to material and physical security, long-term stability, the essential element of which is to increase employment and to achieve full employment in the long term. This is also the purpose of the job protection action, the ged extra, the Women's 40, the part-time employment program, which we will now expand further. Ladies and gentlemen, Although you deny this in opposition benches, it is a fact that these measures already have concrete positive results, which can be measured by numbers. Since the change of regime, not as many people have worked in Hungary as today. It is also difficult to argue that there is a significant difference between unemployment of around 12 per cent before 2010 and the current unemployment of about 4.3 per cent, i.e. the number of unemployed people in Hungary has fallen significantly, and more and more people are able to work. Female employment reached its 20-year peak. That's what everyone who didn't have a job before feels, and now they can work. Everyone sees this, feels it; it seems that in the benches of the opposition, especially in the benches of the MSZP, they do not meet people who can, want and are able to work. In 2016, almost two million women worked. This was 252,000 more than in the same period of 2010. The employment rate of this age group was 60.8 percent in September, almost reaching the average of EU Member States. We still have work to do here, but if we look at how much this was in the same period in 2010, we still had a 10% lag. There has been no such increase in employment in the Hungarian labour market or in any other Member State. And then allow me to quote two statistics on male and female wage differences. One is the Economist's glass ceiling index, published just a year ago, which provided a very positive figure: according to the OECD survey, Hungary was the leader in the study of wage differences between women and men. According to his median calculation, the difference between men's and women's wages in Hungary has decreased to 3.8 percent, making us the first of the OECD's countries to be tested, i.e. the best. The other is a Eurostat survey, which is quite fresh this year. According to this, the differences between men and women in Hungary are on the same level as Sweden. Which means we're in the lead. That is to say, in Hungary, the gap between male and female wages decreases most. If you look at it, otherwise it is a different calculation, so it is very difficult to compare the numbers of the two surveys, but the order shows something: according to Eurostat, the average pay gap in Europe is 16.3 percent, and Hungary is below the EU average, together with Sweden, at 14 percent. I note that before Ildikó Bangóné Borbély says that we sing odes, we don't sing odes, we say that there are results, we have moved towards our goals, and we are on the right track, but this percentage average is something that needs to be fixed, so we still have to work to increase both employment and wage differences. But let me say one or two more countries: compared to the 14 percent wage gap in Hungary, in Germany the same survey measured 22 percent, in Austria 21.7 percent, and even in Finland the wage difference is 17.3 percent, based on Eurostat survey, between men and women. Ladies and gentlemen, Our two main objectives are to have a home and work for the Hungarian people. If he's got a job, there's a chance he can start a family, manage life and get a home. By the way, we want to promote this with the CSOK and other home-building benefits. I think that if, on the basis of today's debate, the opposition goes home with, well, we've just said that nothing is done on the government side, then it's not right. I think that if you have been able to shed some light on what is going on in Hungary today with at least some data, some information, some goals and trends, then we have achieved our goal and the debate day has reached its goal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-293	Secretary Bence Rétvári asked for the floor. You have the floor.
u2017-04-10-294	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Indeed, I think it is in itself that the current debate day is not about how depressing unemployment is for an increasing number of people, because this trend stopped and turned around after 2010, but about where there is a shortage of workers, and we have already organised a separate debate day on this, which means that Hungary's problem is a growing country, a growing country's problem, not the problem of a shrinking, falling back country in a more and more difficult social and economic situation. [[20.20]] And what Mrs Vice-President has drawn attention to in relation to the situation of women in the labour market, let me add one or two more additions to that. I think that all women, all women, have been trying to open up their choices and open up their own freedom of choice, because those who wanted to work sooner after having children have been able to work with the ged extra from the age of six months so that they can work with the various child birth grants, so those who want to work sooner can work faster. For those who wanted to go to work later, and for those who wanted to go to work, support for children was not granted for two years, but for three years. So now everyone has a much wider freedom, not only the socialists have a two-year period, but they can stay at home with the child for up to three years and also receive care from the state. Thus, the possibility of anyone in whatever direction he wants to move in has expanded. The government has decided not for others, but for everyone to have a wider choice, as opposed to what the opposition has often said. Congresswoman also referred to the ged extra. The number of recipients of this benefit or benefit family introduced on 1 January 2004 was 59 thousand in 2015. It continued to grow in 2016, it had already taken 67 thousand people. Forty thousand people used it to work for some kind of care, with 27,000 receiving care for several children at once - showing how often children are born in these families - and there were also half a thousand who received children from their students. So this was a successful measure, since more people could use it year after year, 67,000 people could use it last year. However, the job protection action plan is also successful, which can also benefit mostly from young mothers, since if an employer employs a parent with a small child, the employer does not have to pay any taxes in the first two years, and in the third year only half, i.e. 14.5 percent, for the first hundred thousand forints of his wages. But this partial exemption and, of course, the total tax exemption for three or more children may be extended by a year before last. This could have been helpful for many mothers, and in 2016 they used this discount on average for 37,000 parents with small children, and 37,000 mothers could go back to work without this discount. One year, in 2016, employers used a HUF 9.6 billion discount, i.e. nearly HUF 10 billion after their employment, and since 2013, a total of HUF 36.1 billion. The part-time employment allowance was also used for 3,000 mothers or parents. This also makes it easier for many. I would also like to mention that from 2012, parents with small children are entitled to part-time work until the age of three; this was a much shorter period in the past. Congresswoman also mentioned that women's employment has reached a record in Hungary. Indeed. If I'm looking at the 2010 data, it's 50.2 percent, and if I'm looking at the whole year last year, it's 60.2 percent. We have achieved a 10 percentage point improvement. With this more women work in Hungary than ever since the change of regime. I think this will also help to make the differences between men and women disappear, and women who want to work will get the opportunity to do so. By the way, if you look at these data in detail, you can see that the real great growth has been visible since the introduction of 2014 and therefore since the extra Gyed, in Hungarian, Gyed has helped extra much to eliminate the differences in wages between men and women and to reduce the employment gap between men and women. It is also important that the unemployment rate has also undergone a very positive change in the last seven years. When we got the opportunity to govern, we inherited 10.7% female unemployment from the socialists, while last year it was 5.1. So he's down 5.6 percent, he's down more than there's left. We talked about 40 women today. This also gave nearly 190,000 women the opportunity to retire after raising children and working or after work and, where appropriate, to help care for their grandchildren. When I look at wages: Socialists today have often referred to how the minimum wage has increased in their time. Well, the minimum wage has increased by exactly 4 percent less than inflation, and the real value of the minimum wage under their governance has decreased by 4 percent if I compare it to inflation. The fact that between 2002 and 2004 the family tax relief system was destroyed, together with housing benefits, interest subsidies on forint loans, then we can see that both workers and families were very quickly worse in the socialist period. And if we look at what Jobbik wants to spend on, we can see that in Tisavasvári, the model city, although there was no wage development for civil servants - here we have also heard an explanation for why not - but the sub-Mayors managed to increase their salary by a third. Obviously, the better-looking politicians were happy to give themselves a raise, and the sub-Mayors were happy to increase their income, while those who worked in the municipalities could not ensure that. And if we are talking about reducing the number of politicians: in the 25 years after the change of regime, everyone said that the number of politicians should be reduced, but only Fidesz-KDNP was able to halv the number of politicians in the local government, and Fidesz-KDNP was also able to split the number of politicians in the local government, even though others had a two-thirds majority in the past. Others have come up with similar proposals, but only Fidesz-KDNP has been able to cut the number of people living in politics by half. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-295	I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács.
u2017-04-10-296	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In the last dozen speeches, perhaps one of the biggest problems in wage pay is the problem area that affects health. In order, my fellow Members have returned to the fact that there is a lag and there is a big difference between Western wages and wages in Hungary. Everyone has correctly assessed the problem in which we have a lot of steps ahead of us, and the country has to go through a lot of steps, because there is a burning problem and there are enormous differences between the European wage level and the Hungarian wage level. When we talk about health care workers, we have plenty to do. Of course, it should also be borne in mind that the whole system itself, the whole phenomenon itself, is basically the same for almost all countries, and it covers the same painful phenomenon for everyone, in which educated, skilled heads of people are tried everywhere with higher salaries, plus opportunities to keep or keep in the system. Therefore, one of the best responses and one of the most effective tools could be the Wages Union itself, because the Wages Union could achieve very quickly the desired standard of human resources crisis that could also compensate for the accession of workers, i.e. the shortcomings resulting from the replacement, because for a higher wage, in the hope of a better standard of living, there would be much more people joining the health care system, especially in the area that might be facing the greatest problems and challenges, in the field of professionals. It is not yet repeated enough, but it must be said once again that Hungary is in a very bad position in the international comparison that we know from the OECD survey. The salary of health professionals is the lowest in dollars compared to purchasing power parities in the OECD countries, by the way it is 20 percent lower in Poland, 80 percent lower in Slovenian labour wages, but it is also well below the overall OECD average, which is more than double the Hungarian purchasing power. For this reason, the Wage Union proposal could create a balance, facilitate a balance within the European Union, with which the Hungarian government, Hungarian society, might be given a little extra resources in this fight. It is also important to note that the shortcomings of the last 27 years or even the shortcomings that preceded the change of regime with this proposal, this initiative could be a particularly good way to counterbalance it, and it would be a great help to health, to replace the career that has fallen behind, to replace the prospects that, not only in Hungary, but also in the neighbouring countries, but also at the whole European Union level, all governments face serious challenges due to technological development and ageing. In this way, the Wages Union could be an extremely effective, extremely serious and fast aid for health. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[20.30]]
u2017-04-10-297	Thank you. We now have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi.
u2017-04-10-298	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. We've been discussing wages here for hours, haven't we? I am very sorry that, although the initiative itself should be about the wage debate, my fellow members of the government are mostly using the time frame available to them to continue with the government propaganda and bring to us aspects of the economic policy debate that are not really relevant. So it's tax policy. Although I can see that my fellow Members are able to link everything to this issue, the debate on tax policy is not necessarily a question of tax policy. Tax policy is a redistribution issue, which is about how a particular cake, regardless of its size, should be distributed to social or economic operators. Let us not argue that today is not about having this debate, because we are not going to come to terms with that. And let's not talk about how to cut the existing cake, but rather about how to get to a bigger cake, what tools we need to use to ensure that this shrinking cake does not shrink, but is getting bigger and bigger, so that we can redistribute it with different tax policy tools for everyone's benefit. However, in the absence of an economic policy strategy, we will not be able to do so. We have been indebted to the Hungarian society for 27 years. The priorities under which the Hungarian economy could enter a growth path have not been identified. There has been no change in the Hungarian economy, they are pursuing the same policy as their predecessors in the last 27 years. This has got to stop. The fact that you are comparing previous bad performances to current performance or performance of previous governments is a completely unnecessary course to nowhere. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-10-299	I now give the floor to Congressman László Szakács in two minutes.
u2017-04-10-300	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to statistics, listening to averages. I think we can agree on one thing. No one's ever met a normal person. We met under-average, we visited above-average, we visited sub-average settlements and over-average settlements. What we're talking about here is the last seven years, the last eight years, the last 27 years... Ladies and Gentlemen! It was the Socialist Party that constantly, from the beginning of this cycle, talks about giving people a raise, giving people more wages. That's when they can take on more public burdens. Take a look at the speeches of the past period, look at the initiatives of the past period. We have said that a salary increase should be given to health care workers; we have said that we should continue the increase in doctor's wages drastically; not in November 2019, because then there will be no one for whom. We have said that we need to increase the wages of nurses, technical and economic workers by 50 percent; not in November 2019, because then there will be no one left. You voted against that. You voted against all of our initiatives that would have served to make a higher wage and higher salary in a fairer tax distribution system. And this country, my fellow Members, has fallen over. You can see that every number we hear here, if you come to North Baranya, if you come to the Ormania, but, of course, even if you go to North-East Hungary, you will not see these numbers confirmed in front of you. In fact, I have heard more comments today that I would like to invite you to reassure the people who live there, because they are more excited about their future than you are excited about their future. It's worth going out with people and seeing what they do for a living. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-04-10-301	I now give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-04-10-302	I'm sorry, Congressman Cook, but I couldn't help overhearing your speech. What was the only government in Hungary in the last 20 years that has reduced the wages of healthcare workers? Not only did he not increase it twice as much as he could have increased it, he reduced it. This was the Hungarian Socialist Party. After that, they stand up and say that since you do not govern, you demand a salary increase in health care, and they consider it late that last year we increase doctors' salaries in hospitals by 107 thousand forints, and this year by 100 thousand forints, and before that, in 2012-13, we increased their salaries by 27 percent. So stand up after they represent the only governing party here in Hungary that introduced a reduction in health care pay, 8 percent were taken from health care workers in 2008-2009, while, of course, 16 thousand beds were removed and 6 000 workers were laid off, and then they dared to stand up for a health pay increase... Well, you have only been able to demand this in opposition, and not only have you failed to keep the wages on government level, but you have even reduced your wages. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-10-303	We will now return to the speeches in the normal time frame. I give the floor first to Congressman Zsolt Becsó.
u2017-04-10-304	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In my speech, I would like to talk about four important labour market programmes, the summer student work programme, the job protection action introduced at the beginning of 2013, the "Road to the labour market" programme and the "From Public Employment to Competition" programme. Let's look at the summer schoolwork program. The aim of this programme is to promote young people's access to employment as a student and to provide young people not only with early work experience but also with the opportunity to earn income. It is especially important that students learn about the world of work in real life during summer work. The summer student work programme is a programme for reducing youth inactivity, promoting early work experience and earning incomes, with an increasing number of young people employed each year. In 2013, the program supported the summer employment of nearly 16 thousand students, 24.5 thousand students in 2014, 27 400 students in 2015 and 26 100 students in 2016. Hungary introduced the job protection action on 1 January 2013, which aims to help the labour market integration of disadvantaged workers by reducing the employer's tax burden. The Action Plan for the Protection of Jobs initiates the social contribution tax reduction and provides vocational training benefits to employers of workers who are disadvantaged from the labour market in order to preserve existing jobs and create new jobs. Benefits from the employer's social contribution tax and vocational training contributions are: the benefit for workers under 25 years of age, the benefit for workers over 55 years of age, the benefit for unskilled workers, the benefit for long-term job seekers and the benefit for workers with small children. The intervention applies not only to new employees, and the use of the discount does not entail additional administrative costs. The third programme is the "Road to the labour market" programme. In this context, labour market programmes aimed at the integration into the labour market of disadvantaged job seekers and inactive persons over the age of 25, those with low education qualifications, young people over 25 years of age, those returning to the labour market after childcare or care for relatives, those over 50 years of age, long-term job seekers and those leaving public employment to open employment will be implemented. Participants received complex, personalized assistance, services, training and support. The implementation of the programme on the labour market in less developed regions will continue until the end of December 2018 with a total amount of HUF 102 billion, while in Pest County and Budapest HUF 10.4 billion. GINOP is expected to increase the budget of HUF 112 billion and HUF 7.4 billion at VEKOP, with which project implementation will be extended until the end of October 2021. [[20.40]] As regards the programme from public employment to the competition sector, the government has decided that the aim is to achieve full employment in the coming period. Employment in the primary labour market should be encouraged to achieve this objective. This is accompanied by a program from public employment to the competition sector, which aims to ensure that people with sufficient motivation, skills, skills and ability to work do not participate in public employment, but are placed in the competitive sphere, thus helping to achieve one of our most important objectives, to achieve full employment. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-305	I now give the floor to Congressman László Teleki.
u2017-04-10-306	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Today is a very important day to talk about wages and wage differences between the Member States of the European Union. However, when we discuss this, I am a little sad because the poor people, the Roma in Hungary, have nothing to do with this item on the agenda. It is because you have not given me the opportunity, my fellow members of the Government, to take advantage of the opportunity to make a living on wages and salaries. I'll tell you two important things that... [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks:]] Yeah, where did Flórian Farkas go? I was gonna close with that, but I can ask you right now, at this important point on the agenda, where did Flórian Farkas go? By the way, it is written that I should ask you at the end, but it could be now, because at this item on the agenda, he should definitely be here. It is not only because he represents the Roma at government level, but also because he is a Member of Parliament, and it is important that he also speaks out for the Roma and for the poor. But as we haven't seen or heard him speak in three years, why would we expect him to speak at this very point on the agenda? And by the way, Flórián Farkas does not receive any retortion from the Prime Minister or from the members of the government, or from his fellow Members of Parliament, because in many factions they would not allow a specialist politician to be present at such a trial, where he could also represent the Roma, in this case, so he could tell us what priorities he would consider important. So I would like to say two things that definitely affect the poor, the Roma, by not being able to really compete in this competition, which would mean a competitive situation between wage differences. First of all, some things about education. You have already talked about how important it is to introduce a balanced wage system in geographical areas and how good it would be, but you forget that there are areas in the country where it is unthinkable that there really is an open labour market or the primary labour market, who says, whether from the Ormanism or from Szabolcs or Borsod County, they can be properly integrated into the world of work. Because the situation in education does not allow this, because the poor settlement structure that we can see often highlights the fact that those young people cannot really learn. In fact, by reducing the education obligation from 18 to 16 years in education, they have achieved precisely that at 16 years of age, young people who have not studied, have not acquired a profession, have no school education, and will be out in the sphere where they stand in line for aid. Where you always say it is very important that the poor and the Roma should not line up for aid, but try to find a place. They can't get laid. I would like to give you a number: since the adoption of the law, 47,000 young people have come out of the school bench, so 47,000 have entered the welfare system. I'm asking you, who's worth it? It is certainly not worth it to taxpayers who pay taxes and do not want to use it for aid, but, on the contrary, they want to use it for innovation to make Hungary more beautiful and better, to create more primary labour markets. By paying taxes, they are not strengthening innovation, but, on the contrary, because you are increasing the number of aided people, so that is where the tax forints will go. Is that okay? I don't think that's right. That is why they should consider whether they want to continue to participate in education with the same elite. So, first and foremost, the delivery of the school obligation, which I think was a big problem. The other is the system of vocational training. The reason why we are honest with you is that there are shortcomings in the vocational training system that can be very difficult to deal with is because they cannot avoid vocational training systems from the very areas I am talking about. It's not easy for even those who are in larger cities. I am sure that Secretary of State Cseresnyés will give some important ideas on how he will resolve this issue, because he has not yet managed to solve this problem. But I think that if the government is serious about reducing wage differences within the Member States, Then this issue must be addressed because young people who - I repeat - live in Ormania or Szabolcs or Borsod or even in Heves, in the region of North Hungary or Eastern Hungary cannot get a competitive profession because they do not have the opportunity to do so. Therefore, fundamental access to the primary labour market is not ensured through education and vocational training. Therefore, it is important to address this issue, because otherwise we do not see the future of young people. In higher education, too, there are those who have graduated from college and university, and I am talking primarily about Roma people, and they cannot be seen in the same way as they can, because prejudices have not been reduced in the last seven years. I think it's up to your conscience whether or not society is sensitive. Otherwise, it is impossible to sensitize society and even move it a little towards minorities if Florian Farkas - we return to it again - will not be called into account, because they only increase prejudice by not asking where he put the HUF 1.6 billion when the Bridge into the world of work, which we are talking about, should have been integrated or reintegrated into the world of work by many Roma people. And Florian Wolf could have done this unpunished... [[One sneeze:]] Cheers, and it's true. He could have done this thing unpunished by not dealing with this issue. You shouldn't do this, because I think you're making a very big mistake. Last but not least, I would like to say a few things about the most disadvantaged, even in the gypsy. I don't know if you know, fellow pro-government Members, how many Gypsy colonies are still in Hungary today? No. 550-600 Gypsy colonies are located today. And do you know how many people live in these settlements? About 100 to 120 thousand; of the 700,000 ruins, 100 to 120,000 live. There is no chance that educational integration will start, and there is no chance that they will ever get into employment if this settlement-like environment is not eliminated. I see neither in the budget nor in the intention to deal with this issue, and not only with the 47,000 students who have left the school bench prematurely, but also with this 120,000 people. Of course, he's an old man. The elderly should be understood to mean that the age range appears to be no longer than 45-50-60 years of life for Roma people at most. Some people, of course, are fine, but I think that it is not possible to forgive if someone thinks that biology will solve this issue. However, I think that you need to do something to put this issue on the table, because if this is the case, education, vocational training and the elimination of Gypsy farms will be dealt with in a complex way, and if they are treated in a complex way, it will be possible to talk about how the Roma community in Hungary can be integrated into the labour market and the primary labour market in two years or even five years from now. I will not mention public employment now on purpose, because public employment is very important, and I welcome it in all cases, but we also see that they are now in a trap, who have been in the public employment system for several years or even for a decade. There's no way out of that. And you must find a way out either through education, through public employment or through the primary labour market. Thank you very much for your attention. [[20.50]]
u2017-04-10-307	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr János Latorcai, Deputy Group Leader, informed me that the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party has renounced its further timeframe for the benefit of the Fidesz Group. So I'm gonna need the coworkers to reschedule the time frame. I now give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2017-04-10-308	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Congressman Teleki, I asked for the floor because, on the one hand, I called him to say that I was sure I would respond to him, to your speech, but I also wanted to say because he said two very important things that I felt I should respond to. One was the line of thought when he talked about young people, early school leavers, young people in general, especially Roma youths. And the other thing is, he's been calling us to account for this demolition program. I think that at some point after 2002, when you announced this as a programme, it did not really produce results. Because if we liquidate a colony, it's not a solution, then we have to give training, we have to give work, and you guys have not achieved much with this decommissioning program. I think we need to be more complex, as you said, with this program and the whole situation solved and handled. That is why I would like to return to the problem of young people, the problem of early school leavers, the problem of young people who are not working and studying, because I would like to ask for your help, for example, as a politician, to draw the attention of the stakeholders, family members and the environment to the fact that in Hungary there is a very serious programme that has been going for a long time, the Youth Guarantee Programme, which is precisely for young people - not only Roma, but also for all young people - who do not work, do not study and are under 25 years old. These young people will be involved in this programme. Those who require training and can receive training and training will be trained. For whom we can get a job within the framework of this programme, we will get them a job. We have involved tens of thousands of young people in this program so far. If I remember correctly, there are 16,000 people who have already found work, and there are about this magnitude of people who are in training, and we have involved between 40 and 50 thousand people in the programmes so far, so there is a programme that can help these young people in their situation. In this, I would ask for your help to make this programme known, to draw attention to the fact that these young people should not go for help, but to seek work or training. And it can be achieved everywhere, in every county, in every district. The staff of the Government Office are available everywhere, working within the framework of this programme, to provide adequate information and help for young people. In addition, there are, of course, other programmes that are specifically linked to the school. With regard to the Bridge Programme, I would like to mention how it works, helping young people who may have had difficulty or have had difficulty in completing primary school and taking part in vocational training, you know that. So in this, I would ask for your help not only to reproach each other, what has happened or what has not happened in the past, but also to give these young people back hope for a better life, or actually to give them a better life by getting a job and learning, by ensuring that they work together. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-10-309	I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Tilki.
u2017-04-10-310	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, That is not what I wanted to talk about originally, but my fellow Member Teleki's words are a bit of a change to what I have to say. I am an individual parliamentary representative of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, where there are a significant number of Gypsies, nearly 20 percent of the population is of Roma origin, and I recall it as a parliamentary representative for the period 2006-10. In agreement with Mr Cseresnyés State Secretary, we also remember the settlement settlement programmes on which billions have gone, but nothing has been achieved. We have these segregations the same as they used to be. Teacher is my original occupation, so I also taught at a school where, let's say, 60 percent were Roma, and believe me, I also know the thinking of Roma children. And perhaps, if it is possible to know him as a Hungarian, parents were also involved in the thinking of Roma parents in my area, so they also said that it really doesn't make sense, Mr. Congressman, that when he was 17, he would still be at school with children 3-4 years younger, rather work and have a job. In fact, they also said that, Mr President, I failed at the time when, during your time, the SZDSZ-MSZP coalition, it could not be classified. "I have failed in the past, too," said the child, or his grandson, "that child goes to one class twice. We have seen and sensed where the MSZP-SZDSZ government is going, what damage it can do to a rural small settlement. I also recall, my dear Member, when, as mayor, we were required by law to employ only one member of a family in public employment. Now, if you look at the settlements where you live, where you live, as I understand it, in a settlement in West Transdanubia, if you ask, then it is true that there may be more of a family working in public employment. You can argue that this is a dead end or not a dead end. I believe that it is always up to the people, not the government, who are able to understand that with good work they can get into the primary labour market, that Roma youth has the opportunity and who will. And I also disagree that even though Roma young people graduate from colleges or universities, they have no job opportunities. I only know a police officer who is a policeman of Roma origin in my town, WhiteHard, and who, by the way, graduated from law school. But let's just say there's a Roma youth on our street, just like that, who's a policeman, and he's just finishing college, and he's working. So believe me that Roma young people are able to integrate in hospitals and in many places, and I think that their thinking has started in the right direction - fortunately - because we always said that they should remember what we used to say about work and learning. As an educator, as a Member of Parliament, I can't believe in anything but that the gypsy can be raised by work and learning. What I really wanted to talk about, although Congressman Gyöngyösi said that here we should talk only about wages and that there are all kinds of eulogies on the part of Fidesz, and it is apparently not on the subject, but I think that if a government responds to labour market challenges and tries to introduce measures that help us, then we are talking about the same subject, because it is a complex system that cannot be reduced to wages alone. As a former mayor, I know that the introduction of profiling is a very good thing, it was introduced from 1 January 2016. This means that if the client comes into the employment office, they will try to assign him to the right category. One category is suitable for self-employment, so it is suitable for entry into the first labour market, with support and service, so it can come with a little help to the primary labour market, but unfortunately, let's be honest with you that there are people who, according to profiling, belong to a group of three who have a lot of individual problems. But even though a small town manager, a mayor, anyone, a teacher tried to make the parent understand that it's important to work, he simply won't be able to do normal work. I believe that this is a very important help from the labour market bodies. Another thing that the Secretary of State spoke about, the Youth Guarantee Programme, I think is a very good initiative. Between 2014-20, 200 billion forints are available; we are trying to help young people under 25 years of age and not working with other incentives. According to our calculations, nearly 180,000 young people will benefit from an active labour market programme and an entrepreneurial and internship programme. This means that by means of various schemes, support for employment expansion, so-called wage support; wage support for work experience; wage support for 10+5 months, wage support for 6+3 months, wage support for 10+5 months; support for entrepreneurs and housing support for the youth labour market programme. [[21.00]] In Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County it means that this program started from 1 January 2015 and 19 473 people have been involved in our county, 2045 people in the district of Fehérgyarmat and 1784 people in the district of Vásárosnámény. And the subject of the GINOP 5.2.1 program in the county was 3085 people, this is 489 people in the district of Fehérgyarmat, 659 people in the district of Vásárosnámény and young people under the age of 25. I believe that the third thing I would really like to talk about is another GINOP programme, namely the GINOP 5.1.5. programme, which is about supporting the labour market services of non-state organisations. This means that non-profit organisations can provide services to groups that can reach disadvantaged groups and specifically target groups who are less accessible to those working in the local government sector. I believe that all three sub-programmes are capable of responding to labour market challenges. And I hope I didn't offend Congressman Teleki, although Mr. Florian Farkas missed the fact that as Hungarian MEPs, I dared to be a few clever [[Dr. László Varga: That's not the problem! The problem is, he's not here!]] It's likely to be a clever idea about the situation of gypsy and our ideas. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-311	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs.
u2017-04-10-312	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I am very sorry that Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, left after throwing a great lie in our faces, so I can only answer him in his absence, these were his unworthy remarks about Tisavasvári, that there was no wage improvement there. I would like to say that due to the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, Tisavasvári pays 100 million forints more as a wage this year - another question is how much the government helps him with this. I'd say, just like all the other settlements, you're not helping at all. Today, we have heard some kind of promise from another Secretary of State, and I am genuinely very curious when this will be realized, as well as about the increase in wages of mayors and sub-Mayors, because it also had to be raised by law, and there the government promised that this extra wage would be given everywhere. Do you think they gave it to you? They didn't give it to me. It's been three months since this year, but the government still hasn't helped. But what I was going to say is this: the Wages Union, please respectfully, has already been achieved in a sense, and it has been resolved by Viktor Orbán himself, as he said this morning, that we do not have to wait for the help of Brussels, we have to resolve it in Hungary, and he has managed to solve it. The solution is this: if you look at the civil servant pay table [[He's showing it to me.]] [[He's showing it to me.]] , we need to see whether there has been a secondary graduate or a graduate, but a doctorate who earns the same amount in Hungary - yes, the wage union has been completed - or whether it is a pre-retirement or a pre-retirement civil servant, earning the same amount, all of them carrying HUF 161 500 in gross. I think that this is the shameful minimum career model that Fidesz offers, in the sense that these people are earning a minimum wage for their entire lives - I would like to show you once again the civil servant pay sign (Represents) from the 2017 Budget Act - and not only the minimum wage, but then after 40 years, they get a minimum pension and then live the minimum life that Fidesz offers them. This is the way of thinking that we cannot accept in any way, not even because these problems, these false solutions that Viktor Orbán offers us are actually creating a very high wage tension between employees and employees in rural Hungary, although, by the way, it is not their fault, but the extremely regrettable lack of legislation that this could develop, and one more thing: the cynicism that the Orbán government has been carrying for eight or nine years now, namely that after the shameful IMF pact, although we have already fought our little freedom fight with the IMF and the EU, still, for nine years now the same amount of civil servant salary. It is the same logic for civil servants and civil servants to refuse to move for a penny. Why not? Our contract with the IMF has already been implemented at all points in this regard, and everything has been repaid. Orbán said a half a year ago that every Hungarian family should open a bottle of red wine, because we have already paid every penny of debt, so why must we continue to follow these dictatorships? I would like to say one more thing about this: the shortage of labour is caused by people not being able to take it any further, and, yes, the people we refer to as day laborers of the nation do not do their job at home as educators or civil servants, but actually work in Western countries as day laborers. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-10-313	Ladies and gentlemen, We now have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman János Volner.
u2017-04-10-314	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, What I'd like to say is the community service system, speaking of which. I consider it very important that the public works system was originally designed to ensure that workers who are unable to work on a market basis, so that they are not available in the competitive sector, are offered living conditions by the State. At a time when politicians were not leading this country, they were real statesmen - such as the 19th century. At that time, the public works system was a measurable product in Hungary. Think back, my fellow Members, for example, about the fact that the price regulation of the Tisza took place during this period, by cutting through 400 rivers and showing what the result of this work was and what its product was. At that time, when we invited the representatives of the Ministry of Interior to attend the meeting of the Enterprise Development Committee and asked them to account for the fact that the HUF 360 billion annual public work programme, which gave work to 200 thousand people, produced goods for the country, did not have anything to say about it, because the Hungarian State does not attempt to do so; they do not measure the resulting work performance. I will also tell my fellow Member, László Teleki, that one of the very important tools for catching up the Hungarian Roma would be the public work system if meaningful work were to be carried out. The gypsy man who, for example, can create the source of the food that is being used there for himself, for his community, for the feeding of the village, and who himself produces it, can be a proud and valuable member of society. However, this model can only be reached in one or two settlements in Hungary, because there is no centrally coordinated state concept. I think that this could be among other things the basis of the Hungarian rise in public wages, and I note that [[The president's ringing the bell.]] There are half a million fewer jobs in agriculture than there were at the time of the change of regime. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-10-315	State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés indicated that he wanted to speak to him, so you have the floor.
u2017-04-10-316	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Congressman Volner, I am obliged to respond, although the issue of public employment does not belong to the Ministry of National Economy, as you mentioned in your speech, but we have some insight into this area and the work that is going on there. First of all, I would like to correct a significant error: not HUF 360 billion, but HUF 310 billion, and I asked for the floor to reassure you that many people are dealing with the issue of public employment, are dealing with BM's experts, and we are also dealing with it, as you have probably heard that on 20 March, if I remember correctly, a government decree has been issued, which would like to reduce the number of public employment with those people who are able to work on the primary labour market either very quickly or with a small amount of assistance, with the help of the profiling mentioned earlier, mentioned by Congressman Tilki. [[21.10]] That is precisely because the particular significant competition that has developed in the labour market can be reduced, so that more people who want to work from public employment and who are able to leave the primary labour market can be taken care of as soon as possible. The other thing I asked for, and it's about public employment, because it hit my ear that no one can show me what useful work people do in public employment are doing, there is no central concept. I would deny that, but I think you should ask BM at any time, at any meeting day, and I'm sure they'll answer it, because they're doing activities of a kind, such as social cooperatives, that produce raw materials for mass catering, or that certain construction works are being carried out in smaller or larger settlements. So there is a concept and there is a result. Of course, the effectiveness and detection of this is unlikely to be the same in different parts of the country or in different settlements. So I think that the role of public employment on which we have introduced it is fulfilling it, constantly fulfilling it, just by putting people on the primary labour market who want to be placed and who can be placed there. On the other hand, people are doing work that can lead to significant positive changes in some settlements, and they are able to produce results that show that this form of employment also makes sense, and that the government needs to take action, because there are no many people trapped in public employment, and this number of public workers with about 200,000 people is already large, because the Hungarian economy needs the working hands. That is why the government has brought the regulation that I say: it is still available after 20 March, and we are working on the programmes that allow us to transfer 50-60-70,000 people to the primary labour market. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-04-10-317	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman László Varga for a two-minute comment.
u2017-04-10-318	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The settlement was mentioned, László Teleki mentioned it, and Attila Tilki mentioned it. Obviously, Attila Tilki stressed that during the MSZP governments there were no tangible results. I'd deny that. Obviously, the result of these issues may be different locally, we had good experience in Miskolc, and we managed to carry out complex programs: the Szondi colony, the Peace Hostel or the Pereces colony, it was implemented within the framework of a truly complex programme, involving those involved and cooperating. I have just found that today's settlements are, for your part, more of a matter of law enforcement, what we see in Miskolc public life, such as the elimination of numbered streets. Unfortunately, this issue has been included in the national media many times. So while settlements are important, these segregations are here under the 21st century. In the 20th century, a complex social issue must continue to be eliminated, so that the public should not be pissed off and treated as a police issue. That's the lesson in this case, I think. State Secretary Bence Rétvári spoke about the wage level of the previous cycle and the health experience. I would like to say that after 2002 there were large wage increases in health care as well. Indeed, it must be acknowledged that the crisis has taken a good part of this, but it is a net lie that the balance of eight years would have been reduced overall. Instead, in terms of health, I would recommend the following to you. The three parameters are: health, education, innovation, the competitiveness ranking of regions in the European Union. According to healthcare, four Hungarian regions are among the last ten regions. This situation has just developed. As is the fact that the region of Northern Hungary is the last of 263 regions. That's the reality in health care, that's what I think needs to change. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-04-10-319	Ladies and gentlemen, We're going back to the normal time frame, and now it's really just Fidesz-Jobbik dialogue that's starting to unfold, according to the board. First, I give the floor to Congressman Mihály Balla.
u2017-04-10-320	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, After a long, multi-hour debate, we are now talking about issues that we like or want to talk about, independently of each other. I would like to express a few thoughts specifically on the training of low-skilled and public workers on the basis of the GINOP 6.1.1 forms of application and support, or on the quality vocational and adult education system and support for training at work. This is all the more so, because as a member of the county of Nógrád, I can also outline a very interesting state by saying that the county of Nógrád is a small county, but it shows a very colourful picture, for example, in a job situation, because the situation is different at district level. Compared to 2010, it is a fact and a fact that the number of unemployed people in the county as a whole has fallen by about half, and it can also be seen that there are districts and regions in the county with a unemployment rate of well below 5%, and unfortunately, there are still areas in the county where we still have to account for one and a half to two times the national average in the unemployment situation. Another important aspect is that, compared to 2010, the average in the county is now 59 percent, which means that there has been a significant increase in employment in recent years, thanks to the policy that has tried to help employment in this way over the past few years. We also have a problem with the fact that, if we look at what the source of employment in these areas is that there may be lower employment or higher unemployment, we can also see that the presence of lower-skilled people in these areas can be detected, so that workers there are less qualified, and in many cases it is linked to disadvantaged people, in many cases even to Roma people. I think that exactly those programmes, and perhaps an EFOP programme, can be recalled in addition to the GINOPs, in the EFOP, in the 6.4th Support Programme, the elimination of segregations, and a complex social and educational, training and lifestyle development process, and this in several counties, and especially in those regions where segregations exist, have a significant number in the county of Nógrád. Basically, these programmes would help people living here, while in public employment and GINOP 6.1.1, they would support precisely those vocational training and adult training programmes which are intended to improve competences and the willingness to learn in the labour market. So these programmes, which are complexly linked, exactly help to ensure that, yes, lower-skilled workers or those employed by the public are given the opportunity to join the workforce as a primary economic operator. The second important story: a quality vocational and adult education system is of particular importance, which is also important because, in the case of vocational training institutions, although MEP Teleki here said that young people who do not complete primary school are excluded from school training. I find that, in more and more professions, even Roma young people get good vocational training and, for example, they can be exemplary in their qualifications, that if they do work, they will also be recognised at their workplaces. For example, I see many people working in road constructions in up to 40 degrees of heat, and I see how they handle the machine, how they work with the machines there. I think it's a good direction, a good thing, and it's an opportunity and a help in helping these people catch up with complex programs. [[21.20]] I say this because, as a member of the county of Nógrád, I think it is important because, in certain districts of the county, we can really see that innovation, economic enterprises and innovative developments are taking place, and what we can really see is that there is a serious technical intellect in specific settlements, whether it is Balassagyarmat or Rétés, or the region of the county, and on the other hand, we can see that in the various regions of the county, the catch-up programme is important in order to bring as many of the unemployed back to the primary economic area, either through public employment, social cooperatives or even through the Start work programme. Moreover, we consider it important to support training at work, which, in our view, serves the interests of employers and workers at the same time. This is the GINOP 6.1.5 and the VÉKOP 8.5.2 tender framework, option and programme, which is about employers following their own changes at their workplace, and people who need to complete a training course or training course for a catching up professional or trained workflow, in this case, these companies can, for example, obtain and develop support applications in GINOP 6.1.6 as a small and medium-sized enterprise, even for their own employees, and thus increase productivity. Another thing, a small note to the end: From the county of Nógrád we know that basically any statistics of the country's lowest incomes show any statistics of the county of Nógrád. This is not true for one part of the county, for the other, for other parts, for certain regions, but let us not forget that the average income in the last three years has also increased by about 25 percent in the county of Nógrád. So this is a typical example of that, yes, if employment, opportunities are strengthened, the fact and fact that there is still a lot of work to be done to catch up with some of its regions, even a county, but I think that if these complex programs are supported by everyone and everyone does their job, their work, then in my opinion we will be able to achieve success in the next few years. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-321	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Sebestyén Cutter.
u2017-04-10-322	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We heard very nicely ringing numbers both in the opening remarks by the government and from several pro-government speakers, but sometimes it is worth looking at the numbers. Among other things, workers in the social sector have been mentioned as a priority area in the catch-up. I can see into these numbers, I keep in touch with the former social professional and, as a social politician, with the employees of the sector on a daily basis, and unfortunately at the end, they find that the numbers that seem to be very many, which we hear in terms of wage catch-up either here or in response to a question, appear at the end of many people only as a wage increase of one or two thousand forints, which unfortunately does not improve much in their situation. Although the government says that this bonus scheme is good, if we consider the amount spent on supplementing, if it had actually been spent on creating a social career model, we could have been past the beginning, and this perspective could have already been introduced to the employees of the sphere. What do they have to meet today? Today, they can face the fact that they hardly exceed the minimum wage for the rest of their lives if they work as professionals with secondary education. What do we experience? There is a shortage of jobs in the profession, in many institutions and in various areas of the social care system, and this is not a shortage of labour due to the roaring of the economy, but a shortage of labour because the people working there migrate from the profession. In good times, they remain within the borders of the country, and although my colleague László Lukács has already talked about how underpaid people in the health sector are, they still earn more than workers in the social sphere, and it is better for a worker to go to the poorly paid health sector to work in the social care system. This is the better case, but we see what is already happening not only in the institutions of Western Hungary, but across the country in all areas of the supply system, and that is migration to the West. A lot of people from this sector, from this sphere, are moving to the West, but let's think about why not from their point of view. On the one hand, they get a wage that cannot be paid, too much to starve, and not enough to survive, I might as well say. They have to work with a lot of people, whether they work in an institution or work in an area, because they also have to make up for the extra burdens and extra work resulting from a shortage of workers. They work with a lot of people for this hunger, and if they cross the western border either as a graduate or as a professional or without a degree, instead of working with a lot of people, whether they care for an elderly person or a disabled person, by caring for one person in the family, five times, six times, and I may have said a small number, they will earn what they earn here in Hungary. This needs to be changed, and the pay union is also needed in the social care system, because the system will collapse. If this continues, no one will stay in the business, the system will become unsustainable. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-10-323	I now give the floor to Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi for two minutes.
u2017-04-10-324	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Even at an earlier stage of the debate, there was more talk about productivity and competitiveness, which I believe is closely related to the issue of the Wages Union, the question of how we could move away from the low value added production that Hungary has set up for the last 27 years. Unfortunately, no matter how we look at the statistics, and regardless of what statistics we look at, Hungarians or internationals, we have to establish that Hungary is far behind in terms of real wages, still at the level of the 1970s, somewhere there Hungary has stopped and stagnated, and unfortunately, to this day Hungary is still classified as a developing country in most international surveys. Most recently, in the Annual Report of the World Economic Forum for 2016-2017, 138 countries were examined in the Annual Report and the finding that Hungary is 113th in 138 countries. It examined the length of the value chain, which is an important indicator of productivity, which examines the production of a product or a service from beginning to end. In Hungary, this productivity index, the value chain, is the shortest, which shows that in Hungary almost exclusively assembly takes place, research, development, innovation or sales, which represents the highest added value in the production of a product or service, not in Hungary, but elsewhere, there is no value created here, there is low added value production in Hungary. In order to move and increase wages and improve wages, it would be necessary to reach this level and contribute to increasing productivity. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-10-325	I now give the floor to Congressman Jenő Manninger in a normal time frame.
u2017-04-10-326	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, It was a novelty here in recent minutes that Jobbik's representative considered community service to be in fact partly useless, public employment. Allow me to respond to this first, because I think it has been mentioned that in the last century, large constructions have been carried out in public employment and public work, and now they are doing useless work. I don't think that's true, and I'm sure that's not true. There is no doubt that large infrastructure works, i.e. large constructions and road constructions, are not carried out in public work today, but the work that they do in public works in the water and road administrations is, I think, precisely one of the most important public works in the world. [[21.30]] After all, the work that requires a certain amount of expertise and work, the maintenance of trenches, beds and road cleaning are extremely important, and there has been a lot of delays, and we will certainly get a more orderly picture... - they will do a job that would be difficult to resolve otherwise in the case of labour shortages anyway. On the subject of today's debate, I think it is indisputable that when we dealt with the regime change in the 1990s, everyone obviously knows that we were thinking that wages will be caught up faster in Western Europe, even if it is not likely to be so fast. More importantly, since then, it has been believed by everyone, at least by opposition parties, that people are being encouraged to join the EU. Today, I think everyone is seeing this more realisticly, and we really cannot be satisfied. This is also where it was said that we are saying virtually hymns of praise. We don't say praises, I think we can't be satisfied, but I think it is important to say that there are good signs of trends, and we could definitely see this after 2010. While various statistics have already been mentioned here, there are statistics, Eurostat statistics are not usually called into question, and in the purchasing power parities it has in any case shown that between 2010 and 2015, Hungary's average earnings were 3-4 percent compared to German actions and 10 percent compared to the British. In 2014, the OECD study showed the difference in earnings, because another important problem is that we talk about the difference in earnings growing around the world. Undoubtedly, the differences between the very rich and the poor are growing significantly, but Hungary is not the leader in this, and Hungary has even decreased, because before 2010, the figure between 90 and 10 was 4.25, which today is only 3.67, like the Slovak one. The German is a bit better, 3.41, but you can say that the trend here is definitely very positive. So we can talk about a positive trend. Of course, a 10% increase in a few years is obvious that it does not eliminate the differences in earnings and does not eliminate those challenges, but yet we can see that trends are significant. In fact, if you look at these statistics, it's 14 tenths of them. These are obviously positive, because, in fact, wage increases have started after the economic situation has been corrected, after the economic situation has improved in the last two years, so it is safe to say that there was no government that has been able to start wage increases of this rate, not out of credit, but from economic growth. So I think that these are really important, and this is the way to go. Of course, the challenges will be even bigger, so I think it is obviously a reasonable idea to look at what productivity is, what added value is. There is indeed serious work to be done here, all the more so, because the challenges of the coming decades, the emergence of robotic technology, make it even more important to have innovative jobs of added value in Hungary. By the way, it is common throughout Eastern Europe that catch-up can only take place and that we can definitely get closer if we can achieve results in this. There are a number of programs for this, and you've heard about it here in the past few years. As I would like to conclude by saying that not only the real value of wages is important, but also the working conditions and the employment opportunities that we provide for different age groups. There is also progress in this. Of course, the job protection action programme was a very significant step forward, but the attitude is indicated by the fact that there are a lot of programmes from current EU funds that aim at this, either to encourage a change of mentality for companies, where labour market adaptability is developed by projects or, more importantly, to spread flexible employment. There are also programmes to this effect, as well as encouraging the responsibility of different companies, and job exploration can also help to find jobs and better jobs. So I think that there is nothing to be ashamed of, we cannot be content, but the tendency is that in recent times the results on which we can be more optimistic have been created. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-327	I give the floor to Congressman Adam Mirkóczki.
u2017-04-10-328	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, There is a justification for what many people have said before me in several ways, but I think that today's debate is the primary and perhaps most important goal of presenting a kind of social vision or of conflicting social visions from faction to faction. What do I mean? I think that if I had to explore your social vision, which has been in practice since 2010, then I would say that your vision at the height of 2010 and to this day could be, and that the creation of a new nomenclature, a new social elite, which is dependent solely on political decision-making, maintaining a significant part of society in existential vulnerability, and that the new elite at all times ensures your political power through addiction. If I really want to nail it down and simplify it, that's what I'm talking about. If I want to approach it sociologically, then I say that your society can essentially be described as the classic pyramid society, where there is a very narrow elite on top, with Viktor Orbán at the top, and 80 percent of society at the bottom, who is entrusted and dependent solely on your goodwill or your own lobbying. Our social vision, on the other hand, is not a pyramid-shaped society, but rather an onion-coupling society, where a self-sustaining, existentially stable and secure middle layer is the decisive part of society and its backbone. A key part of this is how wages will develop in the future. I think that's the key question, and you won't talk about it. For example, you have talked a lot about how the minimum wage, or the minimum wage for skilled workers, has changed, how much you have managed to raise. However, little or almost nothing has been said about what the minimum wage should really be adjusted to, compared to what it should actually be increased. It should not be a percentage increase compared to the minimum wage prior to or prior to the government at all times, but should be honest once in life and count the minimum wage correctly. Well, you can say that if that's the minimum of living, that's the minimum of minimum wage. But that's not what you do. Not to underestimate a single forint raise, but who cares how many forints or just how many percent the minimum wage rises, if it is still light years away from the real, everyday real minimum. It is no coincidence that few governments have dared to assume since the mid-1990s that they are officially minimum levels of existence and determine whether they are social policy or economic policy. And you're talking about all kinds of programs, GINOP any number of EU catching-up programmes. These are important. These can be important parts of economic policy, labour development, but that is not the point. Let's be honest about this, too. These positive discrimination-based EU catching-up programmes and other forms of support actually preserve the huge gap between the East and the West. These are alms falling from the Brussels table, which do not substantially contribute to the social development of the Central and Eastern European Member States, especially non-economic ones, but preserve the condition that we are constantly dependent on EU funds taps. What are they doing in a significant proportion of EU developments? The 2014 campaign was an example of this. Decorations, fountains, square stones, new main squares were created everywhere. Great. There's only one problem with it, that the decorative covering doesn't pay taxes, doesn't produce, doesn't give jobs. And let us not thank you for the fact that local lobbyists or local investors have not stolen only 30% of EU funds. [[21.40]] I think that if we sincerely and seriously want a paradigm shift and real social development in an economic and mental and physical sense, then it cannot be avoided that cohesion policy and integration development programmes are not measured in decorative stone and floor coverings, but, for example, we are opening up opportunities, political spaces that can reduce the contributions and employers' burdens of companies employing up to 1-15 people, because then we can raise wages and not decorating. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-10-329	State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés has applied. I give you the floor.
u2017-04-10-330	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to Adam Mirkóczki's comment. I believe that the light-year has been measured in a shorter period of time, because next year it will achieve what you have just suggested, the net value of a certain minimum wage is the minimum of living, and this has been recognised by professionals and recognised by trade unions. It will happen that this value reaches the minimum subsistence level for the net minimum wage. But that is not the only reason I asked for the floor, and that is not the only thing I wanted to respond to. I agree, too, that the decoration does not pay taxes, and in many cases, in addition to the beauty of settlements and the beauty of many, many settlements, it has actually been a longer-term benefit of these investments - if we look beyond the beauty of the settlements, we want to express them in HUF, and we want to show the benefits of these facilities in tax revenues - it was not. I mentioned that the government defined the use of EU funds in a completely different way, since between 2002 and 2010 the amount of money used for direct job creation and direct economic development was about 16 percent of EU funds, and the current government wants to spend 60 percent of EU funds on direct economic development. This will bring tax forints, it will create jobs, it will make the future of businesses in Hungary more stable, they can plan, and they can build the future by strengthening their businesses, by increasing employment, by offering higher wages by increasing performance or efficiency, the state will have greater tax revenue. So it must be said that this is a certain light year, this is very close, within a reasonable period of time, because the wage agreement of November 2016, minimum and guaranteed minimum wage agreement, was about the fact that in 2018, this certain HUF 90,000 minimum of living will be the certain net minimum wage that you mentioned as a light-year distance. I would like to say one more thing, because he also mentioned that in order to increase wages, in order to see this rise in wages, taxes must be reduced and contributions reduced. I would like to remind you that the November 2016 agreement concerned not only an increase in the minimum wage, not only an increase in the guaranteed minimum wage, i.e. the minimum wage for skilled workers, but also a significant tax reduction, a five-year tax reduction, within which, if all requirements are met, the employer's burden on wages will be reduced by 15.5 percentage points. This will almost certainly be used by businesses in the current competitive situation to raise wages. This will ensure, over the next period, a significant expected wage increase in net terms, i.e. both real value and gross value, which is projected by the calculations. So it is expected that in the next 5-6 years about 40 percent of real wages will increase. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-10-331	I now give the floor to Congressman László Varga for a two-minute comment.
u2017-04-10-332	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member Manninger has once again inspired me to speak, as he has said that the opposition is deceiving the electorate with the hope of catching up on wages, if I quote correctly. In any case, I said it exactly. I consider this to be a very irresponsible statement, even from the point of view that, as you say in jokes, as you achieve your goals, it is an interesting question, but it is always worth pursuing directions. I think you need to decide what your purpose is. There was talk here about the impact of visions. Cheap, unskilled labour, which is competitive, or a labour force with really high added value, which has paid, and thus earns even higher wages for the welfare of Hungarian families. It's definitely the latter for us. I think that, even if wage catching up is a long process, it is definitely a necessary and important goal. We should move forward with every political decision, every single day. We should have gone this way in the debate, although we obviously spoke side by side many times. I think that, in the first place, it should be a step to be supported by the European Union vision, which is that the minimum wage must reach 60% of the net average wage in the country in question. At the very least, if we were to decide that, the minimum wage could increase significantly. I think that sometimes, with low wages, we also get a little bit of productivity, so not only does productivity necessarily determine the wages, but there is also a kind of interaction here. More and more through education, I think that Hungarian workers will need to be endowed with skills that will enable them to earn more in the long term. I'll pick it up later, Mr. President. Thank you.
u2017-04-10-333	Thank you. We now return to the normal speeches. I give the floor to Congressman János Pócs.
u2017-04-10-334	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, Please allow me, in front of the subject in which I asked for a word, to tell Mr Adam Mirkóczki that neither you nor any other Member, I believe, has any reason or right to call the voters to account for why they trusted us in the 2014 election campaign and not in you. This view is the same as always the Jobbik, segmented. [[Adam Mirkóczki: That was not the case! Do you speak Hungarian? That's not what I'm talking about!]] Honourable Congressman, It would be better to think about whether you want to integrate or segregation. In your speech, you rated the people who voted for Fidesz in 2014. [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks. Adam Mirkóczki: Understand the words I have spoken.]] Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the EU wage debate day, I think it would be good to quote Jókai, which says that only those who saw where we started know how far we went. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Happy are the poor in spirit!]] Ladies and gentlemen, When politicians think that they are right or right in the pockets of entrepreneurs, we can go as in 2010, when Ferenc Gyurcsány said that it was possible to go, economics and businesses went to Slovakia, Romania, because politics persecuted those who gave the bread, who paid taxes. You have done exactly the same here today, even though you should have learned from the example of Ferenc Gyurcsány. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's debate has also convinced us that there are good debates here in Parliament and there are bad debates. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Can't you interpret the words?]] Let's not forget that, in terms of economics, history proves that politicians come and go, companies that you want to dig in your pockets, criticize, and today you wiped your feet several times, and they stay, if you stay, if you don't chase them away, as politicians have done a few times before. Ladies and gentlemen, Before 2010, there were only debates about the fact that Hungarians had no jobs, no livelihoods. Millions of people lived on credit. People did not have jobs, and the MSZP government assured them that they were encouraging people to buy TV, refrigerators, cars, apartments for credit. Millions were indebted. If it wasn't for the Fidesz government, if the government hadn't had a currency program, there would have been over a million families on the street. Millions of people lived on aid instead of jobs. [[21.50]] In 2010, the government promised that ten years, one million jobs, and today full employment is the goal. In our narrower country, Jászság, tax revenue exceeds the pre-crisis period. Today, companies in Jászság work for more than 15,000 people, providing a living for more than 15,000 people; respect and thanks to employers for this. Ladies and gentlemen, The government has spent thousands of billions on jobs, thousands of billions on tax cuts, left in the workers' pockets. The government has constantly raised the minimum wage, the guaranteed minimum wage, to an unprecedented extent. And if agriculture has already been criticised: my fellow Members, in the last year, 217 thousand main jobs have been in agriculture. From 2010 to 2016, this increased by 44 thousand people, i.e. by 25 percent. Moreover, the government has raised the minimum wage to an unprecedented extent and has increased the guaranteed minimum wage. In order to ensure further wage increases, the government will continue this year to encourage job-creating companies to raise wages with significant reductions in taxes and contributions. Thanks to the joint effort, there is a continuing shortage of labour in Jászság, as in many parts of the country, a continuing healthy wage competition, and continuous construction of workers' shelters, because companies trust the government's balanced, long-term economic policies. If anything, that's what we can say it's a good debate. Political rivals should understand that the hysteria war leads there, as during the Gyurcsány government, when they chased companies away from Hungary. And when Jobbik in many cases accuses employers of bullying and wipes their feet into them, employers know that if they go to the Jobbik government, they will leave the country on their own. That's what you've been exciting today. Because the policy of opposition is only important: the worse Viktor Orbán and the government are, the better for them, and they do not care whether it is good or not for the Hungarian people. The question is how many times history has proved that what is good for Brussels, what is good for foreign interests, is bad for Hungarian people. Ladies and gentlemen, The plans in Brussels are not in the interests of the Hungarian people, because these plans are about removing powers from the Member States. Notice, ladies and gentlemen, Brussels sees competition in Hungary. That's why he hit on the rent cuts, so he attacked the bank tax, so he attacked the multi-tax. The wage union promoted by Jobbik is once again a proposal from Brussels that would take rights away from Hungary. We Hungarians reject stealth legislation and insist that we decide our own fate. We need to know that wage and tax policies, honourable Members, are hand in hand. If we were to take the power of wages out of our hands, it would also take the tax policy out of our hands. If taxes and wages are decided on by Brussels, it will be only good for the multinationals, not for us. We Hungarians cannot allow this. The opposition parties joined the Brussels bureaucrats, who are interested in creating a superstate in the European Union. This is not the first time you have been on Brussels' side, since the anti-quota constitutional amendment has not been voted. Unfortunately, the opposition is not yet a partner in defending national sovereignty together and standing up together for the interests of our nation. So the government turned to people. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what the national consultation is all about. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-04-10-335	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Tamás Pintér.
u2017-04-10-336	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It is not easy to speak after listening to such nonsense, but allow me not to respond to the stupidities of my fellow Member Pócs, but rather to approach the position of the Wages Union from another aspect, and I would like to support it. We believe that this can also provide a means for trade unions, which, by means of wage increases, is basically focusing on the standard of living of workers rather than on the interests of the multinationals. The interest enforcement efforts of trade unions are also supported by this proposal, as we could solve some of the workers' problems by achieving Western wages. The reduction of employers' contributions by the government to support large companies does not serve the wage and welfare of workers, but favours the multinationals. We have also heard from Prime Minister today that, through the reduction of corporate tax and social contributions, multinational corporations are being encouraged and helped to catch up on wages, but unfortunately this has not yet been achieved in more places, not to this day, as in Dunaújváros, for example, in the situation of Dunaferr. If the Wages Union were to come true and everyone got the wages they deserved, there wouldn't be such a big problem in Dunaújváros either. If the western pay was paid by the iron workers, they wouldn't even need the strike they announced for their 5% wage development. So the Iron Union announced this strike, because slowly there was an unacceptable and irreparable situation that they could only react to. Finally, as a result of the pressure of the Iron Trade Union Association on their work struggle, the management of the company was forced to sit at a negotiating table with them. I am very confident that, with the compromise behaviour of the trade union, the employer will also want to start social dialogue in a meaningful way. The fundamental problem we need to solve here at legislative, legislative level. To tackle the problem radically, the aim is to eliminate European inequality in wages, i.e. the approach to Western salaries, and finally to achieve it. In addition to the legitimate demand of the Vasas Trade Union in Dunaújváros, BKV workers also had to fight for their livelihoods. Today, a BKV bus driver will bring home a net HUF 180,000, while his Vienna colleague will deliver EUR 1800 net, or more than half a million forints, which may exceed three times the salary of a Hungarian bus driver. As long as there are such and even greater wage differences in Hungary, we should also expect the emigration of the labour force, as, contrary to what Viktor Orbán said, the Hungarian people are going abroad to work not out of an adventure but because of higher salaries. Following these considerations, the Polish Solidarity 80 trade unions joined Jobbik's citizens' initiative. Our intention to implement the Wage Union is also an opportunity, in their vision, to finally address the issue of the labour market in Central and Eastern Europe, which Western Europe has taken advantage of, and to leave a mark in the European Union. We believe that any such initiative can be part of a direction that will be accompanied by further positive action in the European Union. But, of course, we have no illusions, because our citizens' initiative obviously also violates lobbying interests. I am referring primarily to the large trans-European multinational companies whose particular interest is the so-called brain drain. Jobbik, on the other hand, is committed to workers against the Fidesz regime, and, instead of giving priority to multis, it aims to create decent wages for everyday livelihoods with cafeteria elements so that the standard of living can rise in Hungary. That is why I would like to ask my honourable fellow Members with great respect to stop the double speech. The interests of workers, the interests of the Hungarian people, must be supported by the government against the multinationals, so that we have a common goal of achieving equal pay for equal work in the European Union as soon as possible. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-10-337	Thank you. We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman László Varga.
u2017-04-10-338	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would say to my fellow Member Pócs that I think it is worth acclimatizing to such a political debate, and not necessarily to give the opinions which have been written and brought here, which may even be in the news of public television. I wouldn't put it any harsher than that, but I would ask you to follow what you said next time, because then we will have more opportunities to engage in dialogue with each other, and perhaps something will come out of it, which, in the end, would make sense of such a debate. In this way, I would like to offer you some data for consideration, which may be a different direction than that which will help you to calm your mind, because it is not about the period before 2010, yet it compares two dates, 2013 and 2016 for the competitiveness of the regions of Hungary in the European Union. [[22.00]] I have already mentioned, in my previous speech, that all Hungarian regions have made a significant deterioration in competitiveness. And perhaps we can agree that, in the end, a government, a political force, can decide on wages in many ways, a lot of things, but in the long term, our competitiveness will determine what economic development there is in this country and what wages there are in this country. Now, there's a comparison of three parameters. According to this, among the last 10 regions in the healthcare index, 263 regions were compared, with 4 Hungarian regions. North Hungary is the second-to-last in 263 regions. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] With regard to education, the PISA report has clearly shown a deterioration. I wouldn't even comment on the fact that they're closing a university in Hungary. With regard to innovation as a third parameter, I would like to bring here only the words "to search out." It's a word that's said in some newspaper articles to drain R &amp; D money. After all, in terms of innovation, R &amp; D is a terrible lag. The resources will not go where they really need to, but very, very serious resources will be lost in relation to these proposals. These, if you could answer, I'd appreciate it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-04-10-339	Good evening, everyone. It's a pleasure to meet you. We now have a two-minute speech; Congressman Bánki, Fidesz, please.
u2017-04-10-340	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I have to reply to Mr Tamás Pintér's comments; first of all, the courage and confidence he used to classify my fellow Member, János Pócs. I would ask the Member to reconsider and look back at his own speech and then think about the rating he gave to my fellow Member, Mr Pócs. Because you made such grave mistakes in your comments and statements that are not due to the truth. I'm just pointing out two things in view of the shortness of time. He said that literally, Congressman, Jobbik is committed to the government and to the workers. What are you talking about? Look at what this government has put on the table since 2010. Look at the tax policy this government has been pursuing, the economic policy it has been pursuing, and in recent years, as we promised at the beginning, what kind of wage-raise policy it has been pursuing in line with its budget performance! I would like to remind you that we have agreed with the trade unions, Congressman, we just need to read the news and follow what events are happening in Hungary. This government has decided on a higher minimum wage and a guaranteed wage level than the trade unions' requests. It is true that your faction did not support the tax reduction measures at the end of last year, which led to a much better situation for Hungarian workers. He's talking about finally raising the standard of living in Hungary. Look around you, Congressman. Of course, we would like to give much more, and it would be much better for everyone to earn European wages in Hungary. But you know it's unrealistic. On the other hand, last year there was a 10% wage increase, on average, sector-neutral, and this year there will be a real wage increase in Hungary over 10 percent. This hasn't happened since 1990. You need to keep an eye on these things, and you need to absorb the information a little bit. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-10-341	Thank you very much. Please, we will now return to hearing the thoughts and lectures of the speakers who have been announced. Congressman Gábor Bányai, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2017-04-10-342	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Preparing for today, I didn't think there was any good news for you that wouldn't hurt anyone. The only thing on the cake is that this investment is not far from where I live, it will be realized, what Márton Gyöngyösi is counting on the government, increasing productivity and increasing efficiency, it will all be in what I want to read. The statement was issued by the Secretary of State today. Then I will explain a few important things, not in connection with the case, with this press conference, but what they have said and what I want to say, by feeling the wind of the campaign and touching us with it. More than HUF 12 billion Hungarian food industry investment in Deep Quarter - this is the title of the Communication. Hunent Zrt. is building a new water wing processing plant in the town of Bács-Kiskun county with an investment of HUF 12.5 billion, creating 350 new jobs, the Minister of Foreign Affairs said. Péter Szijjártó added that the government provides HUF 4.4 billion in funding for the European high-tech greenfield investment. According to the Minister, the international food market is also growing, and Hungary's size is the result of the need to implement a well-focused strategy focused on premium quality for international competitiveness. This investment will also help the Hungarian food industry to remain on a growing path, without which the competitiveness of the sector would be reduced and the previously acquired markets would be taken over by others, he pointed out. Like the automotive industry, there is technology competition in the international food industry, and there is a need to continuously improve compliance with competition, the Minister pointed out. István Kiss, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the company, said that a unique plant will be created in Europe, as there are few similar cutting bridges and processing plants in capacity and technological development. The point is that the company also wants to build a kindergarten, a nursery next to its institution, its company, and they want to pay gross wages of €700-800 to the workers who work in it. In addition, the most important thing is that it is not a car assembly plant, but a duck dump plant, which essentially sells marketable goods to the markets of Germany and Japan in all respects. What do these questions mean? In Hungary, after the campaign is here, we feel that it has started, and what the current wage union debate is about, I would like to tell you that it is an eye of my MSZP fellow Members and the good Members that they are actually promising. I'm not saying they shouldn't, because in a campaign, anything can be done, we know that. But what will happen if everything you say comes true as it is? Because neither is Tamás Pataki. Neither the other better-looking representatives have asked entrepreneurs how they would feel about a three-to-four-time wage increase. Let's see. I'd like to introduce you to the public sector first. This was a calculation of 15 May last year, at the time 200,000 state employees, with a gross salary of HUF 200,000. Raised by public burdens, this was HUF 254 thousand per month, 3 million HUF 48 thousand per year. The total wage cost of the civil servants' staff, the state faculty, was HUF 609 billion a year. The gross average wage of another 800,000 public employees working in the jobs of the state and the municipalities was 180 thousand per month, including public burdens of 229 thousand forints a year ago. Very important numbers, really listen to it, because it's interesting. That's what you're talking about. Let's keep an eye on each other. [[Tamás Pintér intervenes.]] Let's just let each other talk, okay? So the point is that the total wage cost of a public servant is HUF 2 million 748 thousand. This sector has a wage cost of HUF 2198 billion. The total wage cost of the entire state and municipal sector was HUF 2807 billion last year. [[Adam Mirkóczki intervenes.]] Will you take this seriously, please, fellow Member? The point is that if they wanted a 10% increase, they would want to increase GDP by nearly 1 percent in this sector alone, that would be HUF 280 billion in extra expenditure, if it was 30 percent, three times that, that would be HUF 840 billion. So, so you know what you're talking about, if you want a serious stake in this election campaign, and you want to say a one- or two-time wage increase in the public sector alone, you multiply the price. I don't mean to offend you, you don't have to smile at him, but there's a price to pay. The budget couldn't take that expense today. And then we'll increase the problem; that's a union of wages. After Tamás Pataki he was talking about the western wage catch-up, compared to the bus drivers in Vienna, bus drivers are, by the way, civil servants in Hungary, some of them, so the three-to-four-time pay in Vienna, if that's what they have to promise, let's see how they feel about it. In the meantime, we have heard that Congresswoman Bernadett Szél is no longer here, and she said that she wants to devote 20 percent of GDP to LMP education. Hallelujah! This is HUF 6,000 billion in extra expenditure for the country from the moment LMP came to the government - that's what he said. We feel that in the public sector, they want to spend 6 million forints a year on wage increases, extra education for a child, a primary school student, a high school student, a college student. I don't know how to spend it, it doesn't cost a person that much to survive in a year, but the LMP promises 6 million forints for a Hungarian student, student, student, and student. [[22.10]] And since Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi is also an auditor and tax expert, he knows that both the budget and the wage increases need to be put together from the tax forints. I believe that it is not a shame to work in assembly plants in Hungary - and I know it. Although it is a fact and a fact that a worker working in Ingolstadt and an Audi factory in Győr has a significant difference in wages, we know that. But what can your party offer, by the way, as a comparative advantage, for investors to arrive in Hungary, or for the Hungarian entrepreneur who wants to invest in Hungary right now? At 3-4 times the wages, all Hungarian food manufacturers become uncompetitive, or any manufacturing and operating company, everyone who, let's say in the machine industry, be in the car industry as a supplier, becomes uncompetitive. Trust me, you're not supposed to go through with this kind of promise. Congressman Teleki is no longer here, and I know excellent Gypsy people who have lived from 28,000 forints before in the public work programme - it can be scolded, it can be scolded. You can't even make a living out of 47, 28, you can't make a living, you can't make a living now. The young man, the good man, has had three children since he got into the community service program, his wages, his net wages, thanks to the tax breaks that our government has provided, was 110 thousand forints as soon as he was able to enter the community service. And this man appreciated his work. Your mayor, I'm not saying you're a fan of it, because I can't imagine such a relationship between a man and a man, but you respect it, and you respect your work very much. The point is, everything we say is negligated. I said there's a campaign, there's a campaign coming, they've already started. We know that there are no good measures, no matter what, there are dozens of measures in the years 15-16 only, which would support job retention, job creation and the coordination of entrepreneurs and employers and job retention. These can be negated, of course, but believe me, most of the voters aren't completely insane, and they won't fall for any kind of propaganda that's going to drive just how bad it is to get out of the country. And believe me, I have some bad news for you, so Márton Gyöngyösi, there will probably still be an increase in car manufacturing capacity in Hungary, and there will be workers who may be engineers and technicians who can work on such a course. It is true that they are not representatives for salary, not for 1 million or 800 thousand forints, for less, but someone must also assemble the cars they can manufacture anywhere in the country. All I'm saying is that we don't have to constantly confront these people that they have to work in a part of the country, we have to work in a job that's a assembly plant, because the country has sunk in here, that it needs to be assembled. In Germany there are 3 million people working in this sphere, so it's not so bad, believe me. [[Adam Mirkóczki: In a country of 80 million!]] Yeah, but we're in proportion to where they are. It doesn't matter how big the country is. I'm sorry, they don't even get the ring off their hands, as far as I know. It's a fact that they have more wages, but if you... [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Turkish migrant workers.]] There is, there is Hungarian, there is also from a former Yugoslav Member State, so there are all kinds of things. So basically, believe me, the illusion of going to the political market right now is that you triple and double your wages, whether in the public sector or in the entrepreneurial sphere, to our fellow countrymen, believe me, is suicide. And you will be asked by any of my fellow Members from your side, what you choose, that you have a debt rise... [[Adam Mirkóczki: That is not what we said!]] - but that's what's going to happen, Congressman Mirkóczki, that's what's going to happen. We don't have the money today. Once again, the public sector's wage growth is 10-20-30 percent, with a cost of HUF 270-540 and HUF 840 billion. It's not a game, believe me. You can fool everyone so that you can solve it, but you have to make it out of tax revenues. Who are they taking it from? From those entrepreneurs who might be able to create jobs, to maintain them? We should take this more seriously, this debate for you, because what you said, believe me, I don't think that's true. This looks good in the campaign, but there's nothing else. And believe me, increasing productivity, increasing efficiency will only work if we don't take these steps in a crazy way, but gradually, as the budget can handle it, and entrepreneurs can handle it. Otherwise, there'll be trouble. And allow me to say, after the big week, thank you for listening to me, and in the end, you stopped laughing and listened to me, and I wish you and everyone a blessed Easter. Because Easter isn't just a celebration here, it's a resurrection. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-10-343	Thank you very much. We have two-minute comments coming up now. Congressman Gyöngyösi, Jobbik's representative in two minutes.
u2017-04-10-344	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would like to respond very briefly to my fellow Member, Gábor Bányai, because he completely misunderstood Jobbik's initiative. We are not trying to achieve a wage balance from today to tomorrow. We know this is a completely unrealistic illusion. We want to define an objective to which national economic policy and the European Union's cohesion policy are subject. That's what we've set out to do. And to Erik Bánki, who said that the government had agreed with the Hungarian trade unions and that the wage agreement had been concluded, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Member Erik Bánki: there was news in the Hungarian economic newspapers that the IG Metall, the largest German trade union, opened its second office in Hungary, after Győr in Kecskemét, in order to fight for wages to catch up in Hungary, because German jobs were also threatened. IG Metall has done more to catch up on Hungarian wages than the Hungarian governments have done in the last 27 years, including yours. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-10-345	We will now continue with the speech of the speaker, which has been announced in advance. Congressman Ander Balázs, the representative of Jobbik is coming.
u2017-04-10-346	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, South Korea has caught up with total poverty in as much time as we have wasted in Hungary in the 27 years since the change of regime. We have become a poor house in Europe, where the net worth of an average household even reaches half the level in Poland. Today it has become clear that we have lost our way again. The competitive capitalism model based on foreign operating capital based on low wages has failed badly. In theory, the idea of a sociopath has in practice turned Hungary into a real wrecked social waste heap, where 4 million people are now vegetating below the minimum living standards, and 8 million people live without saving. For the majority of the members of Hungarian society, inequality, insecurity and poverty have become a crucial part of their lives. While implementing a modernisation policy at the level of Fidesz words, they also violently attacked the neoliberal policy of the so-called Left in opposition, but they continued to blow the neoliberal song on the brutal deleveraging of national human capital and to build on the strange post-communist mix of the capitalist and feudal Döbördi world. Here, wage restraint remains the decisive competitiveness model. A government that wishes to compete with a level of wages that is barely sufficient to ensure a living is a threat to the development of human capital in a wide range of society. The establishment of an excellent education and research system and the displacement of low value added production by conscious wage increases should be a basis, because while a large proportion of employees are slaving at the bottom of the global value chains of transnational companies, the middle class, which is spawned by orange propaganda, remains an empty political product, not a real social truth. The government is determined to fight offshore knights, but by now they can safely say that they will compete with the offshore states in the field of multi-patternship. In fact, Fidesz also took part in the downward competition in the field of labour law for the seduction of assembly plants. The foundation of the protection of interests is the right to strike, but after 2010, the backbone of the legal cessation of work in Hungary was also broken. The restriction of legislation that protects work can be called deregulation of work, so at least neoliberals understand it. In the absence of protection of interests, vulnerability is increasing, which is clearly reflected in the Labour Code of the party to capital, as workers' rights have been significantly undermined under the false cover of labour market flexibility. The labour control system has also been dismantled, no wonder the number of accidents has increased sharply in Hungary. And while there are trade union leaders who are embarrassing government party barons, it is important to remember that the employee protection sector has to operate only from HUF 4 billion per year, at the price of 1-2 kilometers of overpriced motorways or railway lines. This is what the trade union institutional system for hundreds of thousands of Hungarian workers is worth to the government; even though there would be money for this and for wage increases. After all, the wealthiest 100 Hungarian assets - without offshore - grew from 632 billion in 2002 to 2800 billion last year. [[22.20]] A thousand billion have been thrown to public work that even the black economy has a greater reintegration effect, hundreds of billions have been burned in meaningless prestige investments, but there is also a lack of substantial anti-corruption measures. As well as exploring where the 242 billion dollars claimed by Tax Justice Network have disappeared from Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-04-10-347	Now, Congressman Varga, a representative of the MSZP, will tell you his thoughts in two minutes.
u2017-04-10-348	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, My fellow Member from Banya has inspired me to comment again. He talked about the promise and that it should not be done because of the budgetary implications of wage increases. I'd like to reverse the situation. I understand that it's hard to think the other way around after the infertile debates over the last few hours, but here's the thing. Here we are, Members of Parliament, regardless of party affiliation. I think the fact is that if there is not a drastic wage-raising process in Hungary in the coming years, society will fall apart, Hungarian families will be impossible, migration will continue to grow to Western Europe, and the economy will also have a very negative impact. They may only feel meaningful when EU funds no longer participate in economic growth at this rate, but this is the case. But I turn it around: I think that from social sensitivity, from sensitivity to Hungarian families, for economic reasons, but all Members, regardless of ideology, should put the flag on the flag, that large scale wage increases are needed. Not to mention that 40 percent of all HUF spent on wage increases, by the way, comes back to the budget in terms of consumption or other tax revenues, especially if this money goes to lower decylis. So tax policy really needs to be rearranged, from top to bottom, above and above, those with millions of incomes must be subject to heavy taxes, and below, the minimum wage must be exempt from tax in order to actually increase wages there. But corruption, the black economy should be curbed, and answers should finally be given to questions that are not answered when competitiveness parameters will be strengthened in terms of education, health and innovation. However, they are the basis of the Hungarian economy in the long term, thus raising wages. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-04-10-349	Congressman Attila Tilki, Fidesz representative in two minutes.
u2017-04-10-350	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, After the speech of the better-looking Member, they asked for the text of the speech, as the veritable round sentences that he made were difficult for the descriptive ones to follow. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this thing has already gone, and you have already moved away from this kind of radical upheaval. I thought I heard the first Novak. I just want to remind you that your master has already set a different course for you. In fact, people don't understand that the party that is now in politics on the cute side is a radical party. Perhaps you should have paid attention to Congressman Bányai, who told you. Almost all of us have run a settlement, and we know exactly what a budget means. He was trying to explain to you that if we're going to give someone something, we have to take it from someone. A small village has a budget, so I suggest you ask the few mayors who run a settlement in the colors of Jobbik. If we're gonna give someone something from a particular budget, a particular cake, we're gonna have to take it from someone. Then you have to indicate the purpose of who they're taking it from, how they're getting the proceeds. With a tax increase. That's what he was talking about. I just want you to believe that instead of the lousy sentences, you have to go back to the real world instead of the big-shape, and believe me, it doesn't hurt to know what they're really talking about. Congressman, I would like to point out with due humility that you should see how the management of a settlement works. I'm telling you, your Novak's not here anymore, so I don't think it's good for you, and I'm worried about you, that's the radical sound. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-04-10-351	After worrying words, there will be a pre-notified speaker's speech. Congressman Sándor Hadházy, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2017-04-10-352	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I would like to share some thoughts with you on the transformation of the vocational training system. You may remember that when the direction of the transformation was set, the Hungarian economy was on a permanent developing path, large companies of the world's technological edge are already present in Hungary, and further development cannot be imagined without a flexible vocational training system offering opportunities for a wide range of people of higher quality. The pace of economic development is difficult to keep if there is a lack of a well-trained and reliable worker with extensive basic knowledge in modern production. Therefore, since 2010, the government has been constantly paying particular attention to the field of vocational education and training and has performed significant and seemingly effective activities in the transformation of the vocational training system in recent years. In response to the global challenges that we are facing, we must pay particular attention to the fact that the economy that requires more skilled workers and technicians than we are at the moment must be able to cope with an environment such as the fourth industrial revolution in Europe, referred to as the Industry 4.0, which will fundamentally change and make traditional mass production unique and will also significantly transform the service sector. We must prepare for the mass cessation and simultaneous creation of jobs and the creation of unprecedented jobs in the coming years. Therefore, the measures taken and planned are designed to develop and strengthen flexible and effective professional training and reinforcements for current and future economic changes. The most important changes in vocational training can be summarised below under the new VET law adopted in 2011. The system of examination has been transformed, and the lengthy examination system with a significant administrative burden has been replaced by a comprehensive, complex examination. A new National Training Note has been issued to better meet the needs of the economy, during which a number of qualifications not required by the economy have been removed and more qualifications merged according to market needs. The foundations for extending dual training have been created. The system of vocational training contributions, which is one of the main sources of support for practical training, was transformed in 2012 to further stimulate companies to participate in dual vocational training with reduced administrative burden. As a result, enterprises may reduce their contribution obligation by a differentiated level of practical training normative amount per professional qualification. Reform of vocational training has been implemented both at institutional level and classical vocational training in the field of OKJ school education in the context of the modernisation of the content of Level 3 OKJ qualifications. The most important changes in vocational training: In 2015, the significant changes in the maintenance and institutional structure of vocational education and training schools were transferred from Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre to NGM by 303 public education institutions, which were organised at 44 vocational training centres at national level, and in the 2015-2016 academic year, the vast majority of vocational training courses started in the framework of these new institutions. In the new institutional structure, the 2016/2017. During the academic year, more than 230 000 students are studying and about 20 thousand teachers work at 736 job provision sites in the 379 member institutions of the 44 vocational training center. [[22.30]] Agrarian training is provided by CLXXXVII of 2011 on vocational training. Law No 4/A Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, only vocational training institutions which are subject to the maintenance of the Ministry of Agriculture may continue. Following the transfer of institutions in the summer of 2013, the amount of the loan was set out in the Annex to this Decision. In the course of a school year, in 48 vocational training institutions there are 68 job provision facilities for the FM with the participation of around 21,000 students and approximately 2,500 educators. The training institutions operating in the maintenance of the FM shall act as independent budgetary bodies. By amending the Public Education Act, the age limit for participation in day school education has increased from 21 to 25 years. A wider access to the vocational training system will be facilitated by the fact that, in addition to obtaining the first state-supported qualification, the second qualification will be free from September 2015. With this opportunity, more than 8.5 thousand people have already lived in vocational training centres in the first year of their operation, in 2016/2017. In the academic year, nearly 14 000 people learn second qualification free of charge. In competitiveness challenges, vocational training and the economy are guided by common interests, and their mutual interdependence also implies responsibility and division of tasks. The joint meeting point, the possibility of effective cooperation, is created by dual training. Over the past period, the reform of the regulation of vocational education and training has served to improve dual training and to disseminate its system as widely as possible. In connection with these tasks, the institution of the Chamber Guarantee has been introduced, which increases the number of participants in dual training by putting as many students as possible into a real economic working environment, thereby facilitating the training of professionals who meet labour market needs as much as possible. The State also encourages companies to participate as much as possible in the practical education of young people through tax incentives and other subsidies. The standard of vocational training per student may amount to up to HUF 906 000 per person per year for training requiring training. As of 1 January 2016, additional support options for enterprises involved in practical training have been introduced in the VET contribution scheme in order to develop secondary dual vocational training. With these options, a tax benefit of more than 1 million HUF/learner/year can be applied at the level of secondary education, so a micro or small enterprise can also be interested in participating in vocational training. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-353	Thank you very much. We have a two-minute speech. Congressman Banya, Fidesz, please.
u2017-04-10-354	Mr President, thank you again for the floor. I would say to Mr Varga that he is right, that we also believe that we need a serious wage increase, the extent of the debate between us. For when they say in the campaign that Hungarian wages must be caught up in the wages of the Union, in the wage level of our Western European colleagues or neighbours, this does not show what we can do today. You think this is a very slow step, and we don't think it's a quick move, but we're still taking it as far as the country's capacity is concerned. The kind you might not want in this... - you say that you want to achieve this in 20 years, but the voter does not hear it, he expects that in 2018-19 his wages will be as much as the bus driver of Vienna, the bus driver of Budapest. That's what you're expected to do. I just wanted to warn you to be careful with this, because this could be a big problem. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-355	Thank you. Congressman Attila Szabolcs, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2017-04-10-356	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Today's debate, which has been going on for eight hours, is about measures to be taken to reduce the wage gap between the Member States of the European Union. My fellow Members from Fidesz and KDNP have already spoken about the tax reduction, family support and wage raising measures of the Parliament and the Government, the training of the low-skilled and public workers, which have all served to enable everyone to thrive in Hungary. I note that the opposition did not support any of these proposals. I would now like to talk about programmes to improve the quality of the vocational and adult education system involving EU funds, lifelong learning. During the 2014-2020 programming period, system development and training and skills development programmes related to vocational training and adult training may be planned under the Programme for Economic Development and Innovation and among the actions of VEKOP. The funding for quality and content development is approximately HUF 35 billion, while for the programmes supporting the development of skills of the population it is about HUF 110 billion, the priority programme for the development of quality and content of vocational and adult education with a budget of HUF 13 billion, the support of projects for early school leaving and reducing drop-out in vocational training is HUF 21.77 billion. The capacity and competence measurement programme of adults, which aims to assess the basic skills of adults aged 16-65 in three areas: text understanding, mathematics and problem-solving skills, is implemented from a HUF 1.1 billion framework in line with the OECD's research programme. Local adult education networks and training cooperations are also supported for a HUF 6 billion amount. Dear fellow Members, It is important for both the national economy and individuals to include fit adults in everyday work. The lifelong learning process can help. In line with the recommendation of the European Union, priority 6 of GINOP supports the training and skills development of the working age population. VET and adult education programmes contribute to improving the skills, labour market opportunities and the willingness to learn, thereby improving the employability and competitiveness of stakeholders. The government's aim is to bring as many of the public workers back to the primary labour market as possible. In 2015, the programme was launched to provide training support for adults with low educational and unskilled qualifications, mainly for public workers, for 85 thousand people out of a budget of HUF 30 billion. In this design, the offer ranges from basic competence development to training courses for the provision of skills. [[22.40]] The adult training programme, which develops key competences in the labour market, based on innovative, open learning centres, will be launched in 2017, with a HUF 2.5 billion framework. On the basis of the digital welfare programme adopted by the government, the Digital Gap reduction programme contributes to the digital approach of the adult population by a total of HUF 23.7 billion, to the further expansion of the use of tools and electronic administration. In addition, calls for support for workplace training will be launched in the spring of 2017, in excess of HUF 40 billion nationwide, for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and large companies for their own employees. The aim is to encourage employers to continuously improve the knowledge of their employees, not only by improving the skills of workers at work, but also by increasing the competitiveness of businesses. These applications therefore serve the interests of both the employer and the employee at the same time. Dear fellow Members, The above also confirms that the government makes every effort to ensure that the Hungarian working population is able to cope with the wage increases, tax cuts, family benefits, and many others. In addition to own resources, it also uses and uses significant EU funds. The result of this series of measures and similar plans for the future could be that the domestic standard of living should be significantly closer to those of countries with a happier past than us. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-357	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'm gonna ask if there's anyone else who wants to talk to you about the remaining time frame. [[No signal.]] I counted three in myself, that should have been quite enough, but since no one's come forward, I take it you don't wish to speak. Thus, we have reached the end of the speeches by Members. Secretary of State, you are the eye of the world, but mine is certain - and you will indicate that you wish to give a summary. Here you go.
u2017-04-10-358	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The objective of today's debate was to explore the issue which is almost daily for Hungarian people, why we do not approach the wage level of developed European countries more quickly, how and by what means this catch-up could be ensured, whether it is possible to set realistic expectations at EU level, or perhaps mandatory standards for Member States. Although wage catch-up, increasing the welfare of workers is indeed a common goal, I must honestly say that opposition contributions have not included new approaches, but, in addition to the recent revelations in Parliament, irresponsible criticism of the government's factually effective measures is more. We have heard no concrete solutions, as I said in my speeches, and no means of implementing the so-called "wage union" at all. Unfortunately, in this respect, the circle of the subject remained in one place. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: Did you write this in advance?]] In other respects, however, the picture was clear, because Jobbik claims that they are the only ones doing something to catch up on wages instead of the government, so to speak, by launching a European movement for the Wage Union. I see and believe that we should not campaign with facts, trends, announced government programmes, objectives, measures, blindly facing the results achieved in recent years, with proposals that can only sound good, be popular, make votes in elections, but cannot be translated into concrete economic strategies, measures, and in fact harm the already significant Hungarian economy, the visible positive processes. My colleague from Bánya spoke very vividly about this in detail in the debate. Because this is how my fellow Members have reduced a more worthy political debate to a campaign event. And what we see in this campaign is that the Jobbik and the MSZP are acting as allies again. It must therefore be clearly seen, and it must be appreciated in its place, that this is a false campaign whose real purpose is not to catch up on wages, as we cannot move it forward in this way. To catch up on wages, knocking on the door at Brussels is not the solution, or beating the table in a rougher way, in the form of Jobbik. I must confirm once again that, instead of the Hungarian government, no party needs to focus on the issue of wage catch-up at EU level, because the government has not forgotten this, it does not want to sweep it under the carpet, but supports that the issue of wages and taxation, as is currently the case, remains a national competence, because we believe that this is in our interest for wage catch-up. The government has already demonstrated that it has the right economic policy and the right means to do so, and that it has managed to put the country on the brink of the crisis by 2009, and now it is time to switch to higher speeds, even in terms of wages. We do not have to go to Brussels for this, and we consider Hungarian employers and Hungarian workers to be the right partners. If we were to take the political idea of the Jobbik Wage Union seriously, I believe it could lead me to where the MSZP policy led before 2010. What was that all about? Economically, fiscally unfounded, often through credit, which led to total indebtedness, right on the brink of the crisis, which inevitably put the country in the arms of the IMF. I can only repeat that the government agrees with the wage increase, which is supported by a number of more effective instruments than the Wages Union, in cooperation with the labour market players, but the vision of the Wages Union would lead to tax increases and job losses due to the deterioration of competitiveness. It is likely, not by chance, that Jobbik has not identified any specific economic policy instruments or methods other than revelations, the collection of signatures in the EU, to achieve the desired goal. We didn't get an answer today either, because beating a table isn't enough and it's the only way. The coveted approximation of wages cannot be achieved by legislation, EU standards. Such a method does not work in the economy. Wage catch-up can only take place on the basis of organic economic development over a longer period. The Hungarian economy is on a more balanced and faster path to growth than before. Sustainable rapid growth, and thus catching up, can only be the key to improving productivity and increasing competitiveness. We agree on that. This is now the fundamental objective of our economic policy for us, too. The main government measures over the past period are already essentially for this purpose, and economic convergence must go hand in hand with catching up and vice versa. In a number of respects, the allied MSZP in the Wages Union has pointed out to the government that it reacted poorly and late to the employment and wage situation, to migration, to doubt the progress made in employment and to the minimum wage. I have to say that if we had taken over a well-developed economy with a balanced budget from the MSZP government in 2010, then the country could today be in a much better position, and with it, for example, wages. However, the facts should not be called into question, my fellow Members. More than two thirds of the 700 000 people's employment growth, some 480 thousand people, can be attributed to job creation in the competitive sphere. Although public employment has indeed increased by some 150 thousand, not as Mr Gúr has repeatedly said, that by 180 thousand, however, this is not a third of the increase in the number of people in the competition sphere. Moreover, this number is decreasing, and the government has already decided on a specific programme for a significant reduction in the number of staff, as I have said, mainly through redirection to the primary labour market. Working abroad has improved the employment rate by around 70,000 people, but since 2010, no more people have gone abroad than before, for example during socialist governments. It is also a fact that the labour force balance of outflow and inflow to Hungary was already balanced in 2015, with a figure of around 32,000. [[22.50]] I would also like to point out that there is a lot of misconceptions about the extent of emigration, but according to the EU survey, Hungary's migration from our region has been the smallest in the last decade, representing only 2-3 percent of the working age population, as opposed to 10 percent of the Romanian and 6 percent of the Polish population. As regards the proposals made by the MSZP in relation to wages, I have already pointed out in the debate that data can be verified - I would not repeat them - that the catch-up in wages has been continuously improved, compared to both the Visegrád and the Western countries. As regards catch-up, 2016 is a turning point when our catch-up has been further strengthened within our region and compared to Western countries, which will be even stronger under the six-year agreement, as we expect real wages to increase by up to 40 percent in the coming period in Hungary. Denying this process is pointless. However, the MSZP did not provide a solution to how this process could be accelerated, in particular, without prejudice to the economic results achieved. As far as the target is concerned, the percentage of the minimum wage of 60% compared to the average salary of MSZP, according to data from Hungary and Eurostat, stood at 45.3% in 2015. This is in the upper third in the EU comparison and is better than, for example, the proportion of Czechs and Slovaks to around 35-38 percent. In addition, according to available Eurostat data for 2015, there is no country that has reached the 60% threshold. Slovenia's best approach was at a rate of about 51 percent. The Hungarian situation is expected to improve, as the minimum wage increase of 2017-18 will exceed the average wage increase, although it may also be a record. Furthermore, it should be added to the clear picture that in 2017-18 we have a guaranteed minimum wage with a headcount higher than the minimum wage, but this outstanding result is not measured by the indicator in question, and such a multi-step guaranteed minimum wage exists in just one or two countries outside of us. Therefore, we regard the existence of this as a special achievement and an additional tool that the Hungarian government, unlike other countries, can have an active impact on wage development. We could also talk about a number of other instruments that could help to catch up more effectively than the pay union. I could mention measures that are much more effective than before 2010 to support the long-term growth of GDP. But we are also taking a number of steps to increase value added, for example by focusing R &amp; D and technologically intensive investment in investment promotion or by helping to set up service centres. These jobs are not being assembled; these jobs not only produce greater added value, but also make a significant contribution to keeping as many talented and well-trained young people as possible at home. Ladies and gentlemen, We're in a catching-up process, so we have to judge the results. We still have work to do, but we are constantly working to improve our competitiveness by ensuring high and sustainable GDP growth, and on this basis, increasing incomes and increasing wages in Hungary. We are facing a time when Hungary's economic growth will significantly exceed its potential competitors. Our growth was already above the EU average in 2016, and according to our calculations, the performance of the Hungarian economy could be above 4 percent in 2017 and 18 percent in 2017. Support this process, please don't obstruct it, don't hang it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-10-359	Dear Parliament, That concludes the political debate. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today, and now we are going to take the floor after the agenda. First, after the agenda, MP Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, applied for the first post-scheduled speech:, the Körmend was the first champion in 30 years. It's an address. Here you go.
u2017-04-10-360	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the significant history and active community life of the Batthyányi city, the Körmend is famous for one other thing throughout the Carpathian Basin, a three-time Hungarian champion and seven-time Hungarian Cup winner basketball team. By the way of my post-meeting speech, the Körmend basketball team formed 55 years ago won its first championship title 30 years ago. In the city, association basketball has decades of history. The Körmend Village Sports Circle was founded in 1958, and the team was mostly made up of high school students who joined the struggles of the county championship. After two years, the team ceased, and in 1962, with the participation of the students of the Advanced Agricultural Technique, they started again in the county championship. The team was strengthened year after year, with a lot of practice, experience gained, and the arrival of new talented players, resulting in the ensemble being added to NB II in 1970. After 1962, 1975 also became a turning point in the history of basketball in Körmend: In addition to Csaba Szlávik, József Szűcs was sent to Körmend. The team had hardly found a fighter on the second line, and for their last match they traveled to Russia by winning the championship. Even though this meeting was lost, with a slight flaw in beauty, the group ended up in NB I. The coach of the team has been László Kristóf for 14 years now. Unfortunately, Csaba Szlávik joined the band as a soldier and became a player of the Budapest Honvéd, but there was no room for the NB I matches. Thus, the first eight matches were played outside, and on 14 March 1976 the new hall was inaugurated in front of 1400 spectators against the MAFC. In a close match, despite the enthusiastic encouragement of the audience, a guest victory was born. The first NB I year was completed by the team in 8th place. In 1976 the ensemble continued to strengthen with Gábor Rózsás and Sándor Szendrey. Right, id. István Németh joined the army, but fortunately Szlávik played in Körmend again from the fourth round. It was not an easy year in the life of the team, László Kristóf resigned, and Jenő Szekeres followed László Jámbor on the bench. The three years that have passed have not been free from whimsical accusations and struggles, but the heart and the common will of Körmend have pushed the team and its leadership through the deadlock. 1981 is also a turning point. The band has achieved its weakest result so far - 11th place. Imre Patonay stopped his career as an athlete when he was young and became coach of the team. With the design of a different style of play, Körmend has been forged into one of the decisive barriers of the Hungarian Championship. The strengthened team became more powerful year after year. The third place won in the 1984-85 Championship has already anticipated an even more successful performance. The 1986-87 tournament didn't start with the most favorable signs. The retreat of the Körmend basketball king, Slávik and the Triple Factory Trummer has caused many pessimist emotions, but young people have had a tremendous opportunity to prove themselves. An unforgettable and memorable march began, which took place 30 years ago, on 12 April 1987 in Hungarian basketball: Körmendi Dózsa MTE was the first Hungarian champion as a rural team. The gold medal was hung in front of 3,200 viewers: István Bebes, István Érsek, Péter Fodor, László Hódi, László Kardos, László Molnár, Tamás Molnár, id. István Németh, György Szalay, József Szájer, Sándor Szendrey, Ferenc Zsebe. The team won its first gold medal with the leadership of Imre Patonay, Putes, but the other two championships also had an unspeakable merit, not so many times today the rhyme will be heard at the matches:.Patonayt back to Körmend!.The Red Blacks from Körmend are among the best in 1990,.. 93,.. 94,.. 95,.. 97,.. 98 and 2016 and they won the Hungarian Cup in 1996 and 2003 again won the title of championship. The MTE boasts six silver medals and seven bronze medals, as well as the fact that it has been a member of the first class championship ever since its arrival in 1975. The team went to the international arena and gave their enthusiasts a number of memorable matches. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, the audience gathered in the Shrine Arena will experience more exciting struggles, whose appreciation is extremely important. As a dedicated supporter of the team, I trust that we can have many wonderful experiences in the coming years, which are worthy of the Hungarian basketball citadel, the past of Körmend. Many people from Szentgotthárd, Szombathely and other settlements drive to basketball games, it's spring, it's time to change the rubber. I wish the club further success, strong reinforcements and as many good Hungarian players as possible. Go, Körmend!
u2017-04-10-361	Thank you very much. Then Mr. Secretary Cseresnyés responds. Here you go. [[Márton Gyöngyösi to Péter Cseresnyés: Huh, Vas county-Zala county will clash?]] [[23.00]]
u2017-04-10-362	Thank you very much. The two counties are very close, honourable Members. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Parliament, Indeed, on April 12th, it will be 30 years since Körmend's adult male basketball team was able to win the championship as the first country team. After that, they won the championship twice more, they were able to bring home the Hungarian Cup six times, and let us not forget that they are currently in a very prestigious position on the table, they are in a close fight with Alba Fehérvár to win the title. Thanking the government for the merit of the Egis Körmend team, allow me to take this opportunity to say a few sentences about basketball. At the turn of the government in 2010, we took over a heavily underfunded sport sector with a wasted sport infrastructure. The situation was severe, requiring immediate intervention and, at the same time, a long-term forward-looking action. It was necessary to establish a new system of Hungarian sport, which clearly carries out the task of reconstruction along national, community interests, with strong public involvement. The first step was to reform the funding system for sport in 2011 and to introduce a tax relief scheme for visual team sports. Within this framework, basketball sports has benefited from the following additional resources since 2011; I would say 2011-12 and support for 2016-17. As regards Association Tao, nearly HUF 3.5 billion was awarded to members of the sport in 2011-12, within the framework of federal Tao, for nearly HUF 700 million. This changed to HUF 12.5 billion in association tao and slightly more than HUF 2 billion in federal tao for 2016-17. I would just like to point out to the Member, after this series of figures, that, before the 2010 change of government, the support of the Hungarian sports sector as a whole had barely reached HUF 20 billion, in which the Hungarian Formula 1 tournaments had a royalty of around HUF 4.5 billion at the time, and the sums mentioned above refer only to the Tao. This helped to modernise the Körmend Sports Hall, where more than HUF 500 million was spent on investment. To conclude, on behalf of the government, I would also like to congratulate the Körmend on the successes achieved so far, and thank both the supporters and the fans, and also wish the whole team and Körmend further sporting success. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2017-04-10-363	Thank you very much for the sporty comment and response. And now we are listening to Congressman László György Lukács, the representative of Jobbik, the poorest settlement in the country at Zsák utca: What is going on again in Tiszabő? It's an address. Here you go. [[Intercoms.]]
u2017-04-10-364	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Here, a number of people noted the title before the speech, hearing that the Tisza is going on at Tiszabő. That's very good, but it's not the only thing going on in Tiszabő. This settlement, which, by the way, has seen better days, and lies perhaps in one of the most beautiful places of the Tisza, among its most beautiful corners, has been in the news with only negative news in recent years. The past decades have brought nothing but continuous degradation to the settlement. The once prosperous village, the once busy, busy, people living in agriculture and Tisza, was replaced by perhaps less busy, busy people or people living in social conditions who did not have the opportunity to break out, and there was only one way. And this road has led to the fact that Tiszabő is now the poorest and worst-cased settlement in the country, it is safe to say that he is the most miserable settlement in the country. Well, the first time this settlement got on the news, perhaps in the last decade, was that the entire body of representatives was involved in a 100 million-dollar soccer operation, in which, on the one hand, they continued their careers in advance, and later on, each of them served their own prison sentences. The following changes were not positive either, the settlement could not cope with its own public institutions, so it needed a lot of help and ultimately the help of the Maltese Charity Service, as far as its school was concerned. But it is safe to say that the abuse of public works with the beginning of the public work programme has all caused a wound in Tiszabő's judgment that may no longer be repaired. It is also brave to say that the settlement inhabited by Gypsies is sinking deeper, both in demographic, social and other situations and in economic conditions. The last example of this is the situation that has taken place in the last two weeks. The settlement came to the point that the mayor's office had cut off the power due to its debts. No work can now be done in the office in any way, unless it can be done on paper or hand-written. When I was present and visited the settlement, one of the employees of the Kunhegyes district office filled out someone's paper with their hands in the dark, without heating, for some purpose of administration, it was a surreal experience to see that such a situation could occur in Hungary. Unfortunately, it seems that this debt goes in the direction that if it fails to fulfil or is not clarified, then the protective service maintained by the municipality, the medical office, all that the municipality has to pay, can ultimately have the same fate. However, the Hungarian absurdity is shown by the fact that Tiszabő has also become famous in recent days for the government's 300 million HUF investment in the gymnasium, and they want to build a gym in this settlement out of 300 million forints. After all, we can see that the questions are constantly raised as to whether such a gym will be sustainable in a settlement where there are permanent financial problems. Will it be sustainable if, let's say, the Maltese Love Service is not the school's maintainer? Will the Maltese Love Service be able to use this institution, or will students be able to use it? Or will the inhabitants of the settlement be able to use it? In fact, it is only foam on the cake in a negative sense that all this gym investment was won by a company who won swimming or gym renovations worth 1.7 billion forints in April of last year, so that it was a one-man kft., had never had experience in such a thing before and had offshore fibers in it. Until he started the state tender, he owned an offshore. So the question arises, however, whether, in the miserable situation of the Tiszabő people, in the gymnasium taken there, he wants to profit at all, who is behind this company, whether this investment is in safe hands, and what the fate of the gym may be, which I may say, is being guarded with unprecedented security measures - I looked at it on the spot - with a continuous security service, probably to prevent the building from being stolen before it recovers. The last question is whether this is really what that settlement needs, whether it really needs a 300 million forint gymnasium [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] when the public utility charges cannot be paid; when the municipality is unable to perform its most basic functions. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-10-365	Thank you. Congressman Attila Tilki, representative of Fidesz, we remembered Béla Árokháty in Gyuren! It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, Here you go.
u2017-04-10-366	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Yesterday, a new organ was inaugurated at the Reformed Temple of Moon Street with the wonderful play of László Fassang's organist. The new instrument is designed by Attila Faragó organ builder and led by AerisOrgona Kft. Designed and made. Perhaps it is no coincidence that Attila Faragó, who grew up in Gyure, a small village in Szabolcs, became an organ builder. CHAPTER XX Béla Árokháty, the largest organ builder of the century, was born in Gyuren, right in this village. The organ is the king of instruments, the largest instrument of volume, volume, volume and variety of sound colors. Before Christ, the third. He was known in the first century. Johann Sebastian Bach, Beethoven's wonderful pieces of organ ring in all of our ears. In his study, Béla Árokháty wrote an interesting story about Beethoven. He wrote this to Beethoven's publisher in Leipzig: "Despite the prohibition of my doctor, I will start to help the Hungarian mustaches whom I love from the heart," he writes to his publisher. Seventy-five years ago, Béla Árokháty died, the XX. He was an all-rounder of 100th-century Reformed Church Music. Sándor Karácsony described the famous native of the village of Gyure as the most beautiful: Béla Árokháty was not only a musician, but also a pastor who guided and comforted his flock. He was a theologian who brought the congregation principle into our singing business on Calvin grounds. [[23.10]] Religious educator, who still built a method of teaching religion, when he became a specialist in the field, was on the one hand researching the psychology of the industrial apprentices in charge of him, and on the other hand helping to solve the further training of religious teachers. He is not only a musician, but also a researcher of Protestant Hungarian hymnology, a thorough theoretical expert and pioneer of modern organ building in Hungary. With the comprehensive knowledge of organ and ecclesiastical music literature, he is a richer artist and composer every year. His conductor's career is rising to the dead, written by Sándor Christmas. This was quoted by Dr. Károly Fekete at the festive service on 19 March 2017, where we remembered the church musician Béla Árokháty, who was born in the village. In the church of Gyure, a memorial plaque was inaugurated in honor of the composer, conductor and organist. In the village of Acacia Lombos, along the winding Tisza, he saw the light of day in a local vicarage. According to legend, Béla Árokháty was the 22nd pastor in his family. After his years as a child in Gyuren, he went to high school in Sárospatak from 1901, started his theological studies here, and finished his studies in Budapest in 1917. He also graduated from organ and composition at the Liszt Academy, where he was a student of Zoltán Kodály, Ernő Dohnányi and Leo Weiner. He drew Zoltán Kodály's attention to the psalms of Geneva, who this time left us with seven wonderful psalm compositions. From the very first moment of his work on church music to the last, he worked to promote church music as much as possible in the Reformed worship. As a starting point, the organ fulfills its royal vocation when it humbly serves the singing congregation. *Only a person who deliberately blinds his optic nerve does not see clearly the problems of our Hungarian Reformed singing and music affairs. In the age of Bartók and Kodály, there is no irresponsible gibberish over the problems identified, he wrote on 9 September 1941. Back to the old organ. This was also the principle of the activity that characterized Béla Árokháty's organ building work. Béla Árokháty wrote in the 1937 issue of the Protestant Review about the problems of organ building in 1937 that we have been talking about since the so-called organ reform movement started in Germany in 1925. This reform movement was created by the realization that the 19th century had been created. Contrary to the surprising technical development of the century, the artistic value of the organ has fallen deeper and deeper. CHAPTER XX The bright age of organ architecture, the XVI-XVII, was revealed to the presumptuous men of the century. The admirable beauty of the Baroque organ of the century. However, this organ has lost its sound. But how did the ancient organ lose its sound? First of all, he lost it by giving up his ancient needs in the fabric of his whistles. Savings and other aspects [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Satisfied with sloppy castings, and more importantly, he broke up with the careful, thorough method of the old masters in the size of the whistles. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-10-367	Thank you very much. Let us say that what would really be stylish is that, after hearing what happened in Gyure, it would now be Congressman Gyure's turn, but the script does not allow it. We have to wait 5 minutes; until then, I would like to call Dr. Tamás Turgyán, an Armenian ethnic advocate, who would like to say his thoughts on the title of the migrants of the country - etnobiznis vs. nationalities. Here you go, Mr. Speaker.
u2017-04-10-368	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. On 4 April, the General Assembly of the National Armenian Municipality took a decision asking me to read the letter from the Presidency in the Hungarian Parliament. It has been more than two decades since the amok run of the leaders of the Hungarian Armenian community - Armenian Armenian Roots - and some of its moonyards - who appointed themselves as a self-proclaimed Hungarian Armenian. From the very first moment of their entry, it seems that their sole aim is to create a common Armenian community in Hungary for the sake of simple profit and power. For the past two decades it has been almost nothing but hostile submissions, a multitude of unfounded reports, the spreading of malicious and insulting rumors and rumours. Although this long-standing, hysterical, one-sided hatred never reached its goal and could not share the Hungarian Armenianism, it was capable of defaming the honour of the most active public figures and representatives of our community and constantly defiling its reputation. The attacks were so unworthy, subparic, and guts that we tried to ignore it for a long time, but their last letter to János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office went beyond the borders of common sense. We are deeply outraged that the letter by Issekutz Sarolta presents as an enemy that part of the Armenian community in Hungary who still knows their mother tongue, cultivate their Christian faith, maintain their traditions, carry on their ancient culture, operate their theatre, and send their children to Sunday Armenian school. They do this by being recognized members of the international and Carpathian Basin Armenian diaspora. We must protest at all available forums against this dangerous attack, which brands Hungarian citizens of Armenia as immigrants, immigrants and residents, and according to his argument system, the right to belong to nationality can only apply to those who have no real cultural or linguistic connection to the Armenian community. The authors and signatories of the letter rushed out to the point of asking for government action against the elected national institution of the Hungarian Armenian community. In the absence of this, I would like to initiate the institutional elimination and elimination of Armenian ethnicity in Hungary, creating another, the incomprehensible Hungarian Armenian nationality, under a new name. I quote from the letter:, Of the 13 ethnicities, we will initiate the deletion of Armenian nationality. "'" by Issekutz Sarolta. This is an unprecedented act that denies its own nationality and betrays its true community. With this exclusional argument, Hungarian Germans, Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians, Hungarians and Hungarians. We see the success of this endeavour when the Hungarian was accepted as an official nationality language in the case of Armenians by amending our nationality law. This happened without consulting the National Armenian Municipality and the Armenian community. They also expect the only Armenian diaspora community in Hungary to apologize for the Armenian diaspora community they call the Armenians they emigrated. We expect the Hungarian emigrated Armenians to apologize publicly from the historical Hungarian Armenians! - quote from the letter again. But why and from whom? Because it exists, it lives, it works, it works, it works, it doesn't just work on administrative grounds, but on heart, talent and soul? Apologize to those who keep interrupting the barbecue of ethno-biznis? So that additional resources will disappear without end, no trace of Armenian alibi events in the bottomless sinkhole? This phenomenon is particularly dangerous, saddening and frightening, as Issekutz Sarolta's letter was born in a period in which the words of immigrants and immigrants are synonymous with the concept of migrants, and he deliberately uses these terms as a curse to provoke hatred against a national living here, the members of which are Hungarian citizens [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They are proud of their Hungarian and Armenian identities. Signed: Dr. Serkisian Sevan President; Deputy President Akopján Nikogos and Deputy President Avanesian Alex. Thank you for your patience.
u2017-04-10-369	Dear Parliament, Congressman Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik, wishes to speak after the agenda with the title 'The Wages Union' left out of discussion'. Here. [[23.20]]
u2017-04-10-370	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Today's debate has a number of lessons to learn. One of the important things that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has responded to in the immediate question about the Wages Union. He said that in vain we should go to Brussels, we must fight it at home, we must fight it here in Hungary. This is what he said about this, as if the initiative of the Jobbik Hungary Movement on the Wages Union would look like we were trying to obtain a grant from the European Union to see if the European Union would give more money to us Hungarians and Hungarian workers. It's not like that at all. But it's very important what you said about fighting this at home. And if we have to fight it at home, let's see how the Hungarian government has fought the wages, the higher wages in recent years. It has been more than ten years since we joined the European Union, so it is possible to draw a balance, to calculate what has happened in the European Union. And what we can see is that there has been a wage rise since we entered the European Union, which is likely to have been fought out at some point. But how much did they fight out? If we look at this, we can see that in Hungary there has been a 16 percent wage increase in the European Union over ten years, a 16 percent wage increase on average. That this is many or few, we can judge it by comparing it with the data of neighbouring countries, with those of countries that entered the European Union at nearly the same time, or from a similar disadvantage. So if you look at the former socialist countries in Central and Eastern Europe, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Bulgaria, Romania and Estonia, you can see that Hungary is a far-reaching driver in wage growth, since the average wage increase in these countries was 60 per cent over the same period, so the rate of wage growth in these countries is about four times higher. So if we have to fight it out at home, we must state that the governments of the last 10-12 years have worked extremely badly in Hungary, they have worked much worse than the governments of neighbouring countries, much worse than the governments of the former socialist countries entering the European Union. It's a data, but let's look at another aspect that I would like to draw attention to. Even Hungary is not uniform from the point of view of wages, as today there have been a lot of comments about the Wages Union, and it has been mentioned that there are different wages and average earnings in different parts of the country. Here I would like to draw attention to the problem of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, because that's where I come from. We can see that there is a huge difference between the Hungarian average and the income of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county and the departments of North-East Hungary. According to KSH data in 2016, the average income in Hungary was 263 thousand forints, which means almost 175 thousand forints net. On the other hand, the net income in Győr-Moson-Sopron County was 182 500 forints compared to the net average of 175 thousand forints, while the net income in Budapest was 226 thousand forints, and the net earnings in some districts of Buda exceeded 300 thousand forints. On the other hand, let's look at the counties of North-East Hungary: in Nógrád county, the average net earnings are 131 thousand forints, in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county 134,000 forints, while in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county the average earnings are 118 thousand forints. And if we look at this, we can also see that the average income in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County has barely increased. If we compare the average income of the last three or four years, we can see that in four years the average income has increased from HUF 111,000 to HUF 118 thousand. It should therefore also be approached in Hungary with regard to the Wages Union. And since the average wage increase in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County is slower than the national average, we must conclude that the county is constantly falling apart. And if we compare average incomes with the average incomes of the countries in Hungary's environment, we see that the average monthly earnings in Slovakia, Poland and the Czech Republic exceed almost 200 euros net of the Hungarian average earnings. At that time, we had not yet talked about Austria, where about four times the average salary, or Switzerland, where the average salary is eight times the average salary, but even Russia is far ahead of Hungary. That should change. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-10-371	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Cseresnyés wishes to respond. Here you go.
u2017-04-10-372	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, I'd like to respond briefly. During today, there have been countless thoughts on the subject that you raised and that you would have had answers if you had listened. But let me say a few things as a supplement or as a repeat. He was talking about 2010. Until 2010, there was a social-liberal government in Hungary, which, we all know, created a situation by 2010 that the Hungarian economy was in a state of crisis, the Hungarian budget was in a difficult situation, and it had to start building from here, and we had to get to where we have come from today. And if I can give you an example, then let me say that in 2010 we were compared to the economic situation in Greece. We need to see where the Greek economy stands today and where we are. Employment is increasing, the economy is growing and wages are constantly increasing in real terms. I would like to deny what you said in your speech. I do not want to express nominal values in euro or in the currency of the country, but rather in purchasing power parities, the values that can be assessed as progress. It is not true that we have been significantly lagging behind Central European countries or Western European countries in purchasing power parities. If we compare 2004 and 2016, we see that with all countries - Germany, Austria, the United Kingdom, the most popular countries in recent years - we have improved our value at purchasing power parities. But this is also true for the Czech Republic and Slovakia. In the case of Poland, it is not true because there was a strong decline in Poland in 2014-15. If we compare 2004 to 2016, it is not true that we have significantly improved our position at purchasing power parities, but after a significant decline in the Polish economy in 2013-14, when compared to 2015 and 2016, there is already a significant improvement in Hungary's favour of Poland as well. In his last thoughts, he also mentioned territorial differences in wages in the country. Unfortunately, this is a problem, but I do not think that there is a country in Europe where the situation is not similar. Unfortunately, it must be said that there are very large differences between regions and regions. But not only could you describe your county as such, but you can also say that to Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, but you can also tell about the counties of Baranya and Somogy in Transdanubia. In fact, it can be said that my place of residence, the South Zala region, is also in a difficult situation compared to the country's average. But it's a historical legacy, there's a reason for this thing. There was, for example, a major setback in the period of regime change when large industrial companies ceased, stopped production, dismissed workers, or even suffered a major shock in the crisis in these regions. But it is not true that this region is not in the eyes of the Orbán government, and that the government is not paying attention to these areas, because it is particularly concerned with the development of these areas, and that the catch-up in these areas is greater than the national average. I would like to mention the szabolcs-szatmár data of the past period. Since 2010, half of 40,000 new jobs have been created in the competition sector, so this increase is not created by public employment, but by more than half in the competition sector, and a 9.2 percent real earnings increase has occurred only in the first half of this year or in a one-year perspective, and this is well above the increase in real wages with a national average of 7.3-7.4 percent. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-04-10-373	Thank you very much. Member Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, is our next and final speaker today:. What is left out of the debate on the Wages Union: a summary. Here you go. [[23.30]]
u2017-04-10-374	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As a representative of the group that initiated today's debate, I would like to thank everyone who participated in this debate for more than eight hours in an exhaustive debate. I'd like to thank them. Jobbik initiated this debate in the hope that we could overcome ideological aspects in a matter of fate that affects all Hungarian citizens, all of us, regardless of ideology. I find it very regrettable that after such an eight-hour debate, Mr Cseresnyés, State Secretary, seemed to still not to understand why Jobbik initiated this debate and, as a kind of spontaneous cue, reacted from a long, pre-written speech to our spontaneous proposals. I believe that Parliamentaryism based on free political debate is fundamentally destroyed and is completely unworthy of this debate, in which it also questions the good intentions of the initiativers, as if we were not fighting for the wages of Hungarian citizens, Hungarian workers. I believe that in the last 27 years there has been no consensus on economic policy issues in Hungary. This debate has also demonstrated this very well. This is a real tragedy, because we know that successful catching-up does not exist without the establishment of a national consensus. Each successful country that has succeeded in catching up from developing countries to developed countries has been characterised by a national consensus on its development. This was the first step in Ireland, Singapore, Korea, and many, many other countries could be classified as having traveled the same way. If there were a consensus, it would be possible to agree on an economic strategy that sets out the comparative advantages to which a country should build and which could also channel national resources and EU cohesion funds, and which could be subject to these resources. But there is no concept, no strategy, for the last 27 years the political elite has built an illusion of economic policy, which has conducted a self-sacrifice policy instead of protecting the domestic economy. It has reduced the protection duties, implemented import liberalisation, privatised and decentralised in the economy. In return, he gave the illusion that the multinational capital, which is now established in Hungary, will bring about a kind of catch-up, and that the European Union cohesion funds will somehow contribute to Hungary's catch-up. The Jobbik would like to break off with this dead end policy by drafting the union. He called for regional cooperation in Central and Eastern Europe on this issue, and in the European Union he would like to draw Brussels' attention to this basically regional problem, which is what our country is suffering from. This is a long-term goal, and we do not want to achieve these objectives overnight. However, we would like to reach it; it seems that this task is left to us, because the government, like its predecessors, has done nothing, Hungary has been cut off from the forefront even in regional terms and is already present as an army driver. In this sense, he cannot even avail himself of the benefit of being a member of the EU in order to take the fate issues of Hungarians to Brussels. Fidesz's attitude and policy is to sign everything in Brussels, nod to everything, sign the fiscal pact, the Lisbon Treaty, vote in favour, and conduct a freedom fight at home and pursue a kind of political marketing activity. Jobbik wants us to move away from this wrong economic policy in Hungary, to catch up with the Hungarian economy in a way that connects the model of the assembly plant to global economic production at a higher added value level, to which, we know very well, the solution leads only through one route. Through education and training. We believe that every resource, every domestic or European Union resource, should be targeted at achieving a kind of catch-up in Hungary through education and training. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-10-375	Thank you. Secretary of State Cherry, please.
u2017-04-10-376	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, An eight-hour debate, honourable Member, gives you the opportunity to describe what you would like to say in summary. In fact, if he's smarter, he can punch him in the machine and print it. I've written it down as you've described it to yourself, which you've been trying to sum up for five minutes. I will be brief, because I would repeat myself, as you have repeated yourself, because it has been said many times today that the objectives have been set. And I would like to repeat that they have set goals, projected huge dreams here, one thing they didn't say was how they would want to do this, and if they did, the consequences of the response to how they would do it. My fellow Members, such as my fellow Member from Bánya, have told me how we can resolve this and how it will have consequences for employees or for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. If you want a national consensus, I have also offered this in the final sentences of the closing, support the economic policy that we have shown over the past six years, resulting in an increase in employment, wage growth and the growth of the Hungarian economy. Support this, if possible, because this economic policy has already demonstrated that it has tangible results. If we can continue on this path, if we continue to do this, then this employment will increase, real wages will increase, the catch-up that you, I do not know why, will be absent from Central European countries or from Western countries, will continue. And then the salary increase you set out to achieve can be achieved as a result of working together. Thus, the Western European labour market will not be attractive to as many people from Hungary as it is today. I wish for you to change your opinion in this work, in this process, and to actually support those aspirations, the ideas, the political intentions and actions, the processes that the current government is doing, which has already shown that it can produce results. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-04-10-377	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 18 April 2017. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. Good night, everyone, since we're not expected to see each other until then, I wish you a pleasant Easter holiday. Take care. [[The meeting ended at 11:38 p.m.]] Nándor Gúr S.k.
