u2017-05-02-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear House, The 19th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, On behalf of Mr Bertalan Tóth, Head of Group, the MSZP, he applied for a pre-meeting speech. It's an address. Here you go.
u2017-05-02-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, 1 May is a multi-party holiday for us Hungarians, because this day is the celebration of working people, and on this day we are also celebrating our accession to the European Union, but this holiday, this day is not quite over because we can see that Fidesz is the enemy of working people and the enemy of the European Union. A former Soros Scholarship winner whose first name was Viktor, who reduced the rights of employees, pushed the working people into vulnerability and insecurity, while serving and serving the multinationals in Hungary in every way. We know exactly that we should not watch what Viktor says, but what he does, and Fidesz has always been on the side of the multinationals and the rich, and he represented them. Ladies and gentlemen, Now it is clear that there is injustice in Hungary, created by Fidesz, because I ask: is it fair that Fidesz paid for the tax reduction of the rich with small-time workers? We don't think so. Is it fair that Viktor Orbán's gas mechanic, Mészáros Felcsút, did not stróman.Lőrinc increased his assets by HUF 100 billion in one year, while four million people live in Hungary under the minimum living wage? We don't think it's fair. Is it fair that three out of four people in Hungary today cannot pay for an unexpected expense, while Mr. Mészáros does not know that he is buying a hotel, a power plant or a bank in a given week? We don't think that's fair. Is it fair that Fidesz increased the salary of state-owned companies' management by 150 percent while the average salary of employees barely increased? We don't think it's fair. Is it fair that women in Hungary today earn less money than men for the same work? We don't think it's fair. Ladies and gentlemen, Fidesz is interested in maintaining this unjust situation. The purpose of the MSZP, on the other hand, is to eliminate it, so let us say that justice should be done. 'Cause it's fair that if you have a hundred million dollars, a million dollars' salary, you have to take on more. Our goal is to eliminate vulnerability, the insecurity of working people, to keep more money for small-time workers, for civil servants, for ordinary people, and, yes, for the rich, to do more. Justice will also be needed in the world of work, which is served by the six-point labour action plan I am presenting. Firstly, in agreement with trade unions and employers, a new labour code must be established. Secondly, the National Stakeholder Council must be revived. Thirdly, the rights of trade unions must be restored, labour assistance should be strengthened so as not to allow employees to sign unfair contracts which are detrimental to them. Fourthly, a wage ceiling should be introduced for state-owned companies because millions of payments are unacceptable. Right here in Parliament, János Lázár said that they have to make so much money not to steal - but we can see that this did not work, that this multimillion-dollar salary does not prevent the Fidesz from stealing the country. We think it's only fair that no one at state firms, state institutions, makes more money than the President of the Republic. Fifthly, it is also necessary to encourage the reduction of pay differentials in companies in the market, including in the private sector. Companies with more than 50 employees should sit down with employees to discuss how to reduce the wage gap and make it public. Sixth, equal pay for equal work. It is unacceptable that women today earn a quarter less in the same position for the same job as men. Ladies and gentlemen, Higher income, greater security, better interests - this is what is needed for our common future, for a fairer Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[13.10]]
u2017-05-02-2	I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör. Here you go.
u2017-05-02-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, If, yesterday, someone listened a little bit to what the left-wing parties were talking about on the mayal, they could hear rather lousy sentences, only sentences like the ones you said here in your speech. In addition to the usual abuse of government, there was a common element, namely that the results that this country, millions of people in recent years, have been completely removed. If the integrity of the work is really important to the left, then it would not go without saying that 700 thousand more people are working in this country today compared to 2010 [[Nándor Gúr: It's not true! Zoltán Grimlock: Half a million of them in London.]] and a significant part of the new jobs are market jobs. On the other hand, the left has doubled unemployment, and this civilian government has reduced it from 12 percent to 4.4 percent. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: At what cost? Zoltán Grimlock: Tell me this in Borsod.]] This is important because the shortest way out of poverty is to have a job. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You won't have any next year...]] If the situation of people living on wages and salaries really mattered to you, you would have said in at least one tiny sentence that real wages in Hungary increased by more than 10 percent in a year. On the other hand, during the governance of the MSZP, there was a year in 2007, when real wages in Hungary decreased by 4.3 percent. If you were really interested in the fate of the lower earners, you would have mentioned in a tiny sentence that the minimum wage has increased by 15 percent from January and the minimum wage by 25 percent. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Gross...]] This is the minimum wage increase the left didn't even think of. [[Nándor Gúr: The gross and the charges...]] And I would like to tell you that these minimum wage increases will continue next year. That is why we say that today's budget is also a budget for those who live in work. Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, On the day after May 1, it may not be rude to ask what people on the left can expect from wages and salaries. From what we know, it's not much good. [[Interview from the benches of MSZP: How do you know?]] In the person of László Botka, a politician, a man who tries to appear as a political virgin is offered to the Hungarians, but who voted in favour of the tuition, the visit fee [[Zoltán Grimlock: What tuition?]] The taking of a month's pension. He voted in favour, among other things, of the property tax and, incidentally, of the election of Ferenc Gyurcsány as Prime Minister, just to mention a few. The fact is that László Botka is just like any previous tax-raiser, public-laundering socialist: he drives a car of 25 million, he has watches of millions, and they are mysteriously missing from his declaration of property. [[Intruder from the benches of the MSZP: You're lying!]] Referring to the Poor and Righteous [[What's in yours? Do you have the 200,000 shirt in yours?]] Just like you did before, and she's fine, scuba diving on coral reefs. I don't know if you should be called the Rolex Left or rather the Coral Reef Left. [[Moraj and public announcements from the benches of MSZP. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Oh, my God!]] If we look at concrete policy proposals, it's a pretty ugly picture, too, because the thing is, the left would pick up where he left off in 2010 because they're thinking about raising taxes again. [[Dr. László Varga: You should have been in places where I go every week! For once in your life!]] I'd make sja more wrenchy. They're attacking the home creation program again, because they'd wipe it out again, just like they did after 2002. They're criticizing the family support system again because they want to erase it again. [[Zoltán Haughty: Because it's unfair, that's why!]] I would also like you to look into it, honourable Members, that Ferenc Gyurcsány announced this plan yesterday at the Mayal. But most importantly, they want to distribute free money in certain regions of the country, so they want to bring back the aid-based society instead of the work-based society. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Is Lőrinc Mészáros entitled to free money? Zoltán Grimlock: You don't give a job either!]] So we know just enough about left-wing plans to say that if the left were to return to power, the people of work would bear the most of its burden now. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: No, it's not true!]] And that's reason enough to say no. We don't want any more of the Rolex Socialism. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Intruders from the benches of the MSZP: Criminals! What about the helicopter?]]
u2017-05-02-4	Once again, MEP László Földi, member of the KDNP, has applied for a speech before the agenda. It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-02-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dozens of terrorist attacks prove that Hungary, as so many times throughout history, has once again become Europe's shield. We were the ones who recognized earlier that illegal migration was a consciously aroused and organised migration that had to stand in the way because it endangers everything that is important to us. Our safety, our culture, our religion, our way of life, our economic achievements will be eaten by this man's tsunami, if we let it. For example, the European Commission, which has not yet been able to squeeze out one sensible solution to the problem of the influx of uncontrolled masses, commends Austria for reprimanding us. France is celebrated when it builds container cities for immigrants; we get threats for the same reason. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no doubt that the helpless masters of the Union, the naked kings of the continent, the European and the Hungarian left, and the Soros empire, will continue these naughty attacks with the support of pseudo-civil organizations when we draw a new line of protection from the Hungarian taxpayers' money at the border of the Schengen area. Strengthening the legal border seal and setting up border transit zones are also measures to protect all the peoples of Europe. [[13.20]] Protection of the border is not an option, but an obligation, a task that must be done by all Hungarian citizens on the basis of written and unwritten orders of patriotism. Quoting Ferenc Kölcsey, the home above all else. We have another command to obey: The teaching of our Christian faith. All along, the Christian Democratic People's Party has taken the view that we must provide them with proper care, accommodation, sanitary facilities, food, doctors and safety for free. I find it shameful that there were those who dared to mention concentration camps in this context. The investigation of the European Union Border Protection Agency, Frontex, has found that Hungarian police officers are taking cultural action and are prepared to do their job. This conclusion was also reached by police units from the Visegrád countries and Austria. Dear House, We all know that the leaders of the Union and their western member states, and the left who wants to organise migration, do not stop it, know precisely that what the Hungarian government is doing with the support of Hungarian people is the only solution in this matter. However, they do not want to solve this problem, but to use it; they do not address the fact that the threat of terrorism in Europe's cities is now ongoing. They want to profit from this in the economic and political sense of the word. We take in real refugees; we provide proper care to illegal economic immigrants and we take legal action; and we keep terrorists away from the Hungarian people and all European homes. That's the point. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-02-6	On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontra will answer. Here you go.
u2017-05-02-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Home in front of everything; the government's position is the same as what you said. Since the spring-summer of 2015, since the outbreak of the migration crisis, the government has taken the same position and followed the same practice: the external borders must be protected, the rules of the Schengen Code must be respected. The Government acted accordingly and presented to the House a bill on this in September 2015, which was supported by a large majority by Parliament. These rules entered into force on 15 September 2015. We've created protection three at the southern border, we've built the fence, the defence forces are helping the police to defend the border, and we've also created a legal barrier. Accordingly, we have achieved significant results already in 2015 and further tightened these rules in 2016 which aim to protect the country. On 28 March this year, the legislative package on the strengthening of the legal border seal entered into force. The point is that illegal immigrants can submit their applications in the transit zone and cannot enter the territory of the country until the request is assessed, they must stay in the transit zone. Otherwise, the transit zone can be left to Serbia at any time, no detention, no detention, and I would like to emphasise this here too. Moreover, the Parliament's National Security Committee could be convinced of this; the National Security Committee recently visited the border and was convinced of the circumstances in the transit zone. It can also be said, and it should be said here, that Hungary is making enormous efforts to ensure these conditions. This means that illegal migrants receive three meals a day in the transit zone; minors receive five meals a day, playgrounds and playgrounds. Hungary complies with the relevant EU rules and acts in the interests of the country and the European Union. On the last Friday, 28 April, we handed over the second fence on the entire length of the Hungarian-Serbian border. This physical protection, a physical border lock, ensures that this reinforced two-line fence barrier cannot be crossed. I think this is a guarantee element for which the country has done a great deal, and this ensures the security of the Hungarian people and Hungary, the security of the European Union. I would like to remind the honourable Parliament of what you have said: it is now clear to everyone that terrorism and migration are connected. Terrorists take advantage of migrants and the migration situation and are building on it to commit acts of terrorism. It is enough to think of the subway bombing in St. Petersburg, the assassination of a migrant expelled from Stockholm or the Islamist terrorist attacks in Egypt. I would also like to emphasise here, Honourable Parliament: the Government is doing everything in its power to protect Hungary, to protect Hungarian people and to protect the European Union, because the Hungarian-Serbian border is the external border of the European Union. On the other hand, we find that, on the one hand, within the country, and on the other hand, NGOs supported by the European Commission, György Soros and György Soros are attacking Hungary, and they want us to let migrants in, break down the fence, abolish the strict rules that ensure that the country is protected. Honourable Congressman, I would also like to say here in front of this House and in response to your speech before the agenda that Hungary is preventing these attacks, we will not let migrants in. The rules that we have made and which Parliament has adopted will be respected, we will not break down the fence, we will protect the country. And I would ask everyone to fill in the questionnaire received in the context of the national consultation, as this is a way of supporting Hungary's ambitions and supporting Hungary's security. By completing and returning the questionnaire, all citizens contribute to making Hungary safer. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-02-8	On behalf of Jobbik, Mr Gábor Vona applied for a speech before the agenda:. When the Hungarian people pay the price for Viktor Orbán's irresponsibleness. It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2017-05-02-9	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, For the past seven years, we have become accustomed to the fact that the governing parties need a constant fight for freedom. This is triggered on topics that are more important, on matters that are less important, on topics that are completely unnecessary. After seven years, man wonders why you guys need this permanent freedom fight all the time. No, not because they want to protect the freedom of the Hungarian people, not to do good for the Hungarian people, but, in essence, you need this to create a permanent foreign policy battle, and it is so loud that the sound or opportunity of their internal political failure, the failure of their government, disappears, can be hidden. Despite all government propaganda, your government is a failure. Neither the poverty of pensioners, nor the migration of young people, nor the increase in wages, nor the ability to put education in order, nor the health care system in order, nor the ability to save the people with foreign currency credit. So, here we are at the moment, and that's probably why they needed another freedom fight. Recently, Viktor Orbán, accompanied by the bond papa Antal Rogán, went to Brussels to fight another freedom fight. Well, the result of this is that Viktor Orbán was not scored, but was defeated with a rash. It may be said in the news that this was a victory, of course, but if someone reads the announcement of the European People's Party, the announcement of your party family, it is safe to conclude that Viktor Orbán was not placed on the edge of the carpet in Brussels, but was kneeled to the corner. That's what happened to him in Brussels. This, of course, would not matter to us if it were just about Viktor Orbán, but only his personal failure. But the thing is, you have brought all of Hungary into this defeat. Due to the irresponsibleness, stubbornness and disintegration of Viktor Orbán, Hungary is now paying the price for this failure. I mean, what happened in March? Mr. Secretary of State also spoke about the legal border closure. We, together, have accepted this together, as better and fidesz MEPs. Several laws have been amended and, for example, the Child Protection Act has been amended, from which precisely immigrants aged 14-18 years have been excluded and, like adults, we have placed their fate in the transit zone. This is what Brussels is about to take away, and that is what Antal Rogán said that you were open to, essentially expressing Viktor Orbán's opinion, and that is, my fellow Members, spitting on the opinion of the 3.3 million people who voted against immigration in the referendum, and also against the people who stayed at home and who were also opposed to immigration. [[13.30]] At the moment, you have nothing to do with the sentence that Jobbik says that neither poor migrants nor rich migrants nor young migrants nor older migrants need for Hungary. At the moment, you would free the masses of migrants between 14 and 18 years of age to Hungary, young adults who are about to be found a family, and you would try to dazzle the Hungarian people here with a DNA test to calm them down. It's zero, it's nothing! You know very well that even if Lőrinc Mészáros were to set up a company to conduct DNA tests in the meantime, it would be useless. We are in a tight position because of your mistake, honourable Members, and this situation may lead to a solution to the amendment of the Fundamental Law. [[Interviews from Fidesz: Why didn't you vote?]] We have had countless debates on this issue; I can see that the voice of conscience has spoken in you, too. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] There were times when Jobbik didn't press the button because you weren't able to issue the settlement policy. But before and after we filed a number of amendments to the basic law, and you didn't vote for it. But not only did they not vote for it, they did not even justify why they did not vote for the amendment to the basic law. But what I'm saying is, let's calm down, let's calm down, let's put this aside, and then this is the moment, this is our chance, let's re-vote the fundamental law amendment together. Let us at last make clear in front of everyone who wants to protect the country and who is talking about it, fellow Members, thinking of you here. Another question, however, is equally important: what should we send to Brussels? I advise you not to send too many messages. I suggest we keep our energies to ourselves. I suggest that we do not engage in another defeating freedom fight. I am suggesting that we send a single message, but that we send it firmly, consistently and collectively, and that this message should be equal pay for equal work. Let us tell Brussels that the Hungarian people, the Hungarian workers, are worth as much as the workers of any other European Member State. Let's send this message to Brussels. Let's send a message. Unfortunately, Viktor Orbán said that he cannot support this, although I see encouraging signs. In recent times, you repeated our 2014 election slogan several times, which said that if there's work, there's everything, if there's no work, there's nothing. I'm really glad you started repeating that. But a sentence is worth something when it is not only a job, but also a decent salary. Let's fight for this. This is what Jobbik's European Wage Union initiative is all about. If you want a real fight for freedom, then support this, and we should send a message to Brussels, so let us fight, not against the Hungarian people all the time, what you have done, but finally for the Hungarian people! Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-02-10	I would like to draw the attention of my fellow pro-government Members to the fact that they are subject to the same rules as those of the opposition. Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2017-05-02-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, that's what Jobbik does. On Monday, Guardists will be recruited at the Mayal, and on Tuesday, they will join in with a proposal that would effectively withdraw powers from Hungary for the benefit of Brussels. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2017-05-02-12	Opponents are subject to the same rules as pro-governments. Go on, Mr. Secretary. [[It's constant noise.]]
u2017-05-02-13	As for the issue of quota, it is the feeling that Jobbik behaves like a beached fish, slams left and right at the same time, but it makes it increasingly weak. I think what you have said is also a dewy attempt on Jobbik's part to try to forget the hard-for-forget fact that you have not voted in favour of the anti-quota fundamental law amendment. There was a chance, but they didn't vote for it. I would also like to remind you that Jobbik has been trying to make the referendum against quota impossible all along. They pulled themselves out of the campaign, and in the TV ads available, almost without exception, only the government was attacked. The clear outcome of the referendum has not been taken into account at all, and instead of taking uniform action against the quota, they have started blackmailing the government and, if I look at it, they will continue to do so now. After that, the vote of 3 million people is quite facial toaster. Mr. Party President, There's a TV called RTL Club, the place Jobbik would've used to sprinkle salt on it. Then, not so long ago, exactly on 17 January, you said on this television that you could think about dividing the migrants in the European Union on the basis of quotas. So much for who's on immigration's side and who wants to stop it. In the case of Jobbik, there are practically two rules of thumb that always come true. One is that the party almost daily confronts its earlier positions, and the other is that it fits into the media of left-wing parties as a form of public chameleon, and there it is feeling very well. For example, yesterday one of his fellow Members, who had sent Ference Gyurcsány to prison this time last year, paraded very nicely yesterday with Péter Juhász, Gyula Molnár and Ferenc Gyurcsány himself in a union Majal. [[Ander Balázs: Don't lie!]] Maybe next year you'll be wearing a red sweater. But consider, say, the case of the Soros University, where the Jobbik used to blurt it out. [[It's constant, it's loud. The president's ringing the bell.]] that the EUR 50 billion grant to CEU could decide Hungary's future. What happens now? Jobbik also joins those who report amendments to the Higher Education Act in the Constitutional Court. And there is another novelty, and there have been numerous instances of left-wing representatives reporting Hungary, say, in the European Parliament or in other places in Brussels, but last week Jobbik's MEP joined this. All for a big payday. It is no coincidence that Jobbik's former chief of staff of national politics spoke in an interview about the fact that Gábor Vona would like to win the voters of the left with his current policy, but he also faced his own supporters. The question of why all of this has been the case is right. This has been the case because you have joined the service of almost one billionaire and have given up your own independence. [[Intercoms from the pro-government line: That's right!]] We have a feeling that Jobbik's operation is like a cheap puppet show where every finger of a billionaire gets a better politician. And sometimes the puppet master winks at the viewers and tells them that all his sympathy is for puppets. The goodies are dragged around every day, and apparently you're not bothered by it at all, because it really doesn't matter anymore, it's about getting power, even at the cost of your own soul. Dear Jobbik MEPs, In the development of your party, you referred to the continuation of the struggle of your former role model, Gergely Pongrátz, the freedom fighter. I think it's time for you to consider whether you're worthy of anything for his legacy. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-02-14	The leader of the LMP's faction, Mrs Bernadett Szél, will now come next: Hungary deserves more than a minister without a wallet. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. Here you go.
u2017-05-02-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, A lot of people in Hungary feel that we live here in 2017 that nothing in this country is what it seems. We're supposed to get paid for our work, but in reality, we can't make a living. In principle, politicians should serve among them, but in practice, those behind politicians are rich inexplicably rich. Health care is free on paper, but in reality, under Fidesz, it became paid. The government says it helps small and medium-sized enterprises, but it is the multinationals with which it enters into strategic contracts. It is said that there is democracy here in Parliament, but in reality, in opposition, two papers cannot be lifted without consequences. Theoretically, we can hold a referendum in this country; there is practically the National Election Committee, which may be a committee, but not a national, not an election, but just one of the bodies filled with many party cadres that act on their command. And when it comes to Paks II and the referendum, clearly the government side is not. Fidesz has now practically reached the point that Hungarian people have been declared unfit to give their opinion on the issues that concern them in a referendum by 2017. Today, the Orbán government is where the then pro-government politicians held. They basically claim that we Hungarian people are too stupid to judge our own future. On the other hand, there's the government side that would be smart, and they know where it's headed. Now, here is the Prime Minister, who practically owes two thirds of 2010 to the lied change of regime and the 2008 referendum; he does not allow Hungary to decide on its own issues. Viktor Orbán, who wanted to ask for support for his own government by referendum last year, came between the Hungarian people and the referendum this year. Today in Hungary the referendum is not an instrument of the people, but an instrument of Fidesz. It is one of the institutions that the governing parties have expropriated, twisted, and put to their own ends. I see that this is very far from what can be regarded as a democratic minimum. The government obviously knows why they're taking the risk. For you, unlike what looks like, it is not the electricity that will be produced in those two Paks blocks at all. What is more important to you is the HUF 4000 billion that must be available by the time EU funds are exhausted, so that they can feed their own background power. Because there should be no doubt about it, the Fidesz people use the word background power, but no one in this country has a strong background power like the Fidesz-KDNP, behind which there is a network of oligarchs who, in exchange for money, give power to Fidesz-KDNP. [[13.40]] When it comes to Paks expansion, the formula is infinitely simple. If there is no Paks enlargement, then there is no money, and then there is nothing to feed the hungry oligarchs, and Fidesz is failing. That's why you're doing everything you can to get this crazy project going in this country. And don't have any illusions, it doesn't just cost 4,000 billion forints, it can be doubled or even tripled, because this is the government that can't even build a high tide swimming pool with as much as he said, and then he will be able to build nuclear power plants according to the preliminary cost plans! But there are also costs here that are difficult to forint, or difficult to say in rubles how much they cost, but the more painful they are for this country, which just yesterday remembered that it wants to work as a member of the European Community and its full member in the future. Here's a university they want to close because they're giving American degrees. There are the civilians you're trying to intimidate because you're getting money from abroad, if you haven't given them a penny. Then there's this inexplicable mini nuclear power plant building fever with the Russians' allies, Iran, which no one in the world understands exactly why this is necessary. And there's the so-called national consultation, which can now be called the Putin consultation, because there's a Russian code running on it, and when we ask the National Security Committee why, then Szilárd Németh is going to run out of the room, but he's going to take the entire Fidesz with him. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, What you're doing is net treason. Fidesz is lying to a national in 2017, but it has become a traitor and has served foreign interests a long time ago. Because we are strangers to your oligarchs, to the interests of Lőrinc Mészáros and all the other billionaires, because their enrichment is not in our interest, nor in our interest. And the interest in which Viktor Orbán pushes the country and in return takes us on a forced course is a complete stranger, giving up our national sovereignty. Paks enlargement is a matter of interest to your oligarchs and Vladimir Putin, but it is not in the interests of the Hungarian people, and you voted without a word on the committee a few minutes ago. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the fundamental law amendment with which the May Other Politics tried to force the Hungarian people to have the right to influence their own destiny. ♪ On the streets, on the streets ♪ [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]] We're going, not just for Paks, but for our rights!
u2017-05-02-16	Congresswoman, your time is up. I give the floor to Secretary Nándor Csepreghy. Here you go.
u2017-05-02-17	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Thank you so much for the opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I understand the frustration, but if you're talking about getting the people's authority to develop the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, I would like to remind you once again that we got this in 2014. At a time when your anti-nuclear position was given 2 million votes less than the clearly outlined and clearly committed position of the nuclear supporter of Fidesz. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: You're lying!]] And Congresswoman is saying that democratic minimums must be respected. That's right. The democratic minimum means that there are two different professional positions against each other, and the majority who acquire a majority will be given the opportunity to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I accept that you, representatives of the LMP, consider every Hungarian person who does not want to pay more for electricity than he has to pay now. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Who wrote this panel? Aren't you ashamed? Doesn't that violate the dignity of this House?]] The price of electricity in Hungary is 30 forints, compared to the German green-energy price, which is 90 forints, because at this moment there is no cheaper energy production than the atom in terms of security of supply or predictable prices. Here, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in a role of government, the state must always take into account two aspects: security of supply and price. The alternative that you offer to Hungarian people is at least 3-4 times the cost of rent; the alternative that you offer to people is destroying the jobs of tens of thousands of people; the alternative you offer to people is eliminating the basis for Hungarian economic growth; the alternative that you offer to people is eliminating the basis for reducing the costs. So it's not realistic. The Hungarian government has set itself the goal of maintaining nearly 50 percent of the country's electricity generation capacity after the end of the Paks nuclear power blocks, and providing an alternative to Hungarian taxpayers, companies and businesses to be able to generate and buy energy from different locations, so that Hungary is one of the cheapest alternatives to electricity in the whole of the European Union. You're talking about green energy. Indeed, you are right that the future, the long-term future, the 30-40-50-year future will be about this. But at the moment, investments that could be an alternative to green energy in Hungary and could guarantee the energy generation that the Paks nuclear power plant blocks would cost at least 7,000 billion forints compared to the Paks nuclear power plant development, which you mentioned at a cost of 4,000 billion forints. So here you have been talking about at least doubling the cost of Hungarian taxpayers' overhead to finance the cost of Paks energy that can be generated. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's not true! No, I didn't. Agnes Kunhalmi: That's not true!]] I would therefore like to call on the LMP to play with clear cards: on the one hand, to accept the results of the elections, when it was unable to offer 2 million people an alternative by making your programme suitable for providing cheap and predictable energy for Hungary. On the other hand, LMP may view anyone in the country as an idiot, but do not wonder if they will achieve similar election results in 2018 compared to 2014. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: You're not our election counselor! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-02-18	Last in the series of speeches before today's agenda is Mr Lajos Kósa, leader of the Group, on the Fidesz side: we will defend Hungary! He'll say what he has to say with a title. Here you go. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Cancel!]]
u2017-05-02-19	Mr. President. Dear House, I can safely say that last Wednesday, the whole country followed the debate of the European Parliament on Hungary, and everyone could be convinced that the Prime Minister had successfully defended the country, that he had successfully defended the position that the Hungarian government represented on the issue of migration, which was represented by the Hungarian government on the issue of the double border closure and on all the issues that were said there. Everyone could also see that the most important question, namely that the procedure under Article 7 can be formulated and raised in any sense against Hungary, was clearly not given a majority, and that this kind of threat - although socialist and liberal politicians tend to refer to it as such - has simply no relevance today. And everyone could see that the Hungarian Parliament has nothing to be ashamed of in terms of the intellectual quality or style of the debates. There some Members said that, I can safely say, everyone was shocked: from the mention of book burning to the inhumane treatment of migrants. We Hungarians know exactly that these lies are circumstantial. The more shocking it must have been that some Hungarian MEPs at the plenary session where the country should otherwise have been protected behaved in an outrageous manner. I can safely say that our fellow Member Balczó, who is worthy of a better fate at some point, is completely incomprehensible and in line with Jobbik's position, neither here nor there, nor in such a position, who has been pitifully involved in the company of George Soros' best friends. [[Dóra Dúró: Shame on you!]] We expected more from this Jobbik; the few liberal Members in the European Parliament have said it more in solidarity. And what was most shocking was the statement of the key member of the socialists, because what our fellow Member in Ujhely did with treason and yelling was also the best stunts of Verhofstadt in all respects. Showing well that the socialists still find it difficult to interpret the word "home" and feel better in such an international neighborhood, betraying and debauching Hungary. But more importantly, not only did this attack, which, by the way, was unfairly and unjustly dealt with against Hungary, but the attempt to share the European People's Party in accordance with the old, well-established salami tactics did not come together, but there is, of course, a politician of many interests in the European People's Party, and we also have a debate with them in a number of areas, but of course, the exclusion of Fidesz or KDNP was not raised in the European People's Party. It could also be clear to everyone that Hungary is acting exactly as it has been in the past on disputes, and even though the Members mentioned the old cases there, they have been legally closed and have all ended in a satisfactory manner; where we have reached a compromise, such as on the retirement of judges, where we have not accepted the position of the European Union in certain issues of the Constitution, and we have been right, where we have otherwise changed the media laws they object to. [[13.50]] This is still our most determined position, both on the Soros organisations and on the NGOs funded by Soros, and we need to keep this debate perfectly normal. We are always open to the fact that, in accordance with the procedure from which we have been able to close the biggest debates with the European Parliament and the Union, we should act, and in the end, if we have a legislative task, we will do so, if we do not, we will thank you for the debate. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In any case, Hungary was protected by the Prime Minister. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-02-20	Once again, I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör.
u2017-05-02-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, The events you have referred to prove that Hungary has been under unprecedented pressure in recent days, and the reason for this is that they continue to force the government to change its policy in certain key areas. If we take a closer look, the greatest pressure on issues that affect the country's independence is on the issue. There is indeed the biggest disagreement on the issue of immigration. We will continue to insist on protecting our borders, sticking to the border lock, and will use all means to combat resettlement programmes. As a well-known House, the European Commission has issued a written resolution which is misleading even with the greatest goodwill, as it refers to the introduction of 1300 immigrants, which Hungary has otherwise attacked in the court, but is very silent about the proposal on resettlement without a ceiling. According to the news, even those countries who do not want to participate would be subject to sanctions. The Commission's resolution also says that those who are truly entitled to refugee status will be carefully separated. The fact is that we do not see any guarantees of this right now, because the perpetrators of terrorist acts often move freely in the EU using refugee status. The Commission cannot underestimate the safety risks of this. Then, for example, take energy prices. The Commission's position shows that Brussels continues to insist on removing the right to set prices in the electricity market from the hands of the Member States, thereby effectively abolishing the reduction of the costs. The European Commission says that its proposal would lead to a price reduction, but it does not say that gas prices are increasing in Romania due to such liberalisation. The government also insists on greater transparency in the case of foreign-funded activist groups. In vain, the European Commission claims that this debate is not about the otherwise strong civil sector in Hungary, but about attempts to gain influence abroad and that groups financed from abroad are trying to weaken Hungary's defence capabilities against illegal immigration. These are the organisations that demand the abolition of the legal border closure and which report Hungary to the Strasbourg court and make money. These are the organisations that demand the release of an illegal immigrant who had previously attacked policemen with stone and stones. Most of these organisations are funded by György Soros, who received a reception in Brussels, which is very rare even for prime ministers. All Hungarians rightly want to know what was agreed behind closed doors. In addition to the above, the government is also determined to continue to control the issue of job creation and to control the right to determine taxes in Hungary. To sum up, we look forward to the support of the Hungarians in order to continue to combat illegal immigration, we can control the definition of rent and taxes and ensure greater transparency in the case of foreign-funded political activists. We regret the fact that Jobbik has now lined up alongside the left to block this effort. The debates in Brussels over the last few days show that participation in the consultation is more up-to-date than ever. This is certainly felt by Hungarian citizens, it is no coincidence that today the number of participants exceeded 670 thousand, 670 thousand people said their views and stood up for the Hungarian government. On behalf of the government, we would like to thank them for this. This high willingness to participate means that the national consultation will withstand not only the test of time but also all the tangles of opposition parties. However, the issue of national independence always overrides the daily party political battles, and that is right. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-02-22	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2017-05-02-23	Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, MSZP; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP. On Wednesday, the following representatives applied for a speech before the agenda: Gergely Bárándy, MSZP; Ákos Hadházy, LMP; Dániel Kárpát Z, Jobbik; Péter Harrach, KDNP; Erik Bánki, Fidesz Bánki. On Wednesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: István Szávay, Jobbik. On Thursday, Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik applied for a speech after the agenda. No one came forward to speak after the agenda on Friday.
u2017-05-02-24	Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent a transcript to the Parliament on the appointment of Minister János Áder. I would like to ask Mr. Lajos Szűcs to present the transcript.
u2017-05-02-25	Mr. László Fat for the President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the Parliament that I appointed János Süli as Minister without Wallet on 2 May 2017 pursuant to Article 9 (four) (c) and Article 16 (7) of the Fundamental Law, on the proposal of the Prime Minister. Budapest, 21 April 2017 Sincerely, János Áder.
u2017-05-02-26	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that last week, Mr János Süli, Minister-designate, has been heard and supported by the Economic Committee and the Committee for Sustainable Development. Now the solemn oath and the oath will be signed. I would ask Minister János Süli to come to the centre of the Chamber and take the oath, and I would ask him to read out the text of the oath. I ask the Parliament to listen to the oath as usual. [[The people in this room stand up. János Süli steps into the middle of the room. Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2017-05-02-27	I, János Süli, pledge to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its laws and to keep them; to exercise my office as a minister for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2017-05-02-28	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I would ask Mr. József Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature, and Minister János Süli to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring József, who signed the oath document, congratulates János Süli and gives a copy of the signed oath document.]]
u2017-05-02-29	Dear Parliament, For the new mandate of Minister János Süli, I wish the Parliament and myself effective work and good luck. [[To János Süli, first Viktor Orbán, then Dr. Zsolt Semjén, Lajos Kósa, János Volner, Gábor Fodor, Dr. László Szakács, Anita Heringes, János Lázár and Antal Rogán congratulates him. Dr. Bernadett Wind is handing over a white cardboard roll to János Süli with a few words. Then Dr. Miklós Seszták, Dr. Sándor Fazekas, Mihály Varga, Dr. István Mikola and Dr. István Simicskó congratulated János Süli. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[14.00]] Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. We are now deciding on the amendments to the agenda. The Fidesz Group proposed that on Thursday's meeting, CXL of 1997 on museum institutions, public library provision and public education. Act T/15377 amending Act T/15377 and certain related laws The 2008 XCIX on the promotion and specific employment rules of performing arts organisations. T/15367. H/15345 on the further participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in international action against the Islamic State terrorist organisation until its closure. Following a general debate on the proposal for a decision. Anyone who agrees with that, vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group also proposed that CLXVIII of 2012 on the tax on public utility lines. T/15363. The general discussion of the legislative proposal No 1 shall not take place until its closure on 5 May. Anyone who agrees with that, vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear House, A decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. Now, at 2:03 p.m., we move on to interpellation and immediate questions. Dear House, Zoltán Gőgös, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office with the title of the consequences of an irresponsible restructuring. The congressman has the floor.
u2017-05-02-30	Dear Minister, It was discovered a year ago that the MVH was announced to cease and will be replaced partly by the Treasury and partly by government offices. At the time, we indicated that this is an irresponsible anti-farmer measure, because it further undermines the work of the office which is already running late. For years, the European Union has been indicating that the paying agency needs to increase its number, whereas at the end of the year there have been even redundancies. The answer to my written question was that quality exchanges were made. True, they did not respond to the quality of replacing a three - degree agricultural professional with a kindergarten secretary. Mr. Secretary. Despite the fact that you are constantly publishing success reports on the payment of aid, farmers are constantly sending us complaints about non-payments. I do not know, Minister, whether these complaints will reach you, but you do realize how much the lack of money in this period hinders the completion of spring work and what a huge problem it will cause, especially if there have been no such problems before. Your competent Secretary of State has also acknowledged that there are delays in some of the items, but it is particularly unacceptable that he has projected a payment of more than 20 billion in June. In June, we usually meet a few dozen or a few hundred unpaid producers, Minister. The situation is particularly serious for milk producers, who would have been right to expect swift assistance after a very difficult period. Mr. Secretary. This situation also leads to an illegal situation in the preparation of annual scales, which has never been done before, as producers will set false data here because they do not know how much if they receive support. The situation is no better than other tender procedures. In principle, you have published all calls for proposals, but you have not judged almost anything from the proposals you have submitted for over a year. They're also communicating that an advance can be made, but I'm telling you, if you can provide 110 percent bank guarantees, you don't need a state guarantee. Magos already protested in February 2005 for non-payments and demanded compensation for the damage caused by the State. I don't know if these leaders have been negotiating with you, but we don't see any evidence of that in public. The Chamber is also concerned only with its own fundraising, rather than representing the interests of its members. It is also disappointing that, according to the news, the single payment application requires farmers to file applications that have not yet been examined. Is this normal, Minister? So I ask you, Minister, when do you admit that you made a mistake when the MVH was terminated? How long will public opinion be misdirected? How long do you think farmers are gonna be suckers? When will the outstanding subsidies be paid? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-05-02-31	To answer, Minister János Lázár has the floor.
u2017-05-02-32	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much, my fellow Member, for your question. In view of the fact that several wallets are affected by the question you have asked, since the Ministry of Agriculture, the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministry of Economy, but the whole government is actually involved, which is why Prime Minister has nominated me to answer your question. On the other hand, I would like to recommend to my fellow Member the assistance and to all my fellow Members in Parliament that our colleagues, my fellow ministers, are at the disposal of the committees as regards the award and payment of various land-based subsidies, agricultural subsidies. Whether this system worked well or not, which we have transformed, I would not bring here the measures that have been said and repeated many times and which are anti-bürocratic and which are intended to improve the functioning of the country, but I would like to give one example. During the last seven years of governance, there has been a very serious abuse of an institution which, I believe, has had the right to be a policeman, and now it has the result of an indictment, the Office for Agriculture and Rural Development, where land-based subsidies have not been applied for or taken out by others, significantly abusing their situation, has been recruited by others and not by eligible farmers in the organisation of the staff of the Office for Agriculture and Rural Development. I would not say that this organization was in good shape, nor would I say that this organization deserved any political protection, where such serious crimes are committed, and they are now in charge. As far as your specific questions are concerned, I would like to answer all your questions in particular. 1784 was the authorised MVH when it was received with 108 vacant status. Jobs have been removed. 671 people were transferred to the Hungarian State Treasury, and the offices of the county rural development office were integrated into the county government offices with 1113 persons and 61 persons were terminated by mutual agreement from 1113 people in the county MVH, Baranya county, for example, 6 people in the county of Pest. I don't think that 61 people have been able to influence the work of an organization of 1,700 people. Maybe some friends got out of the system to improve the system and the decisions. The process of converting the MVH did not bring any harm to payments, but accelerated it. You know exactly that the MVH was paid to the Prime Minister's Office from 1 November to 31 December 2016 for HUF 223 billion - from 1 November to 31 December 2016. In 2017, HUF 338 billion was paid by 26 April, and another 18 billion will be paid in the coming weeks. This total was 356 billion forints in the first half of 2016 and 377 billion forints in 2016. I do not consider this distinction to be such as to undermine the activity of agriculture. [[14.10]] On the other hand, I can say that out of 129 thousand area payments 128 thousand area payments have been paid, which means that the payment rate is 90 per cent. Of course, I'm not happy with that. I understand my fellow Member's questions, which are important for the financing and liquidity of agriculture, and I therefore recommend that, during the committee's work, the Committee keep a constant and strong monitoring of the activities of the MVH integrated into the counties and the Treasury. I indicate that the evaluation of applications is ongoing and that the entire state apparatus is working to provide the necessary resources for Hungarian agriculture, of course within the legislative framework of the European Union, which makes it difficult to take an advance. I ask for the support of my fellow Members that all Hungarian farmers for competitive agricultural production [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] receive the necessary support as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-02-33	I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2017-05-02-34	Thank you. Minister, regarding the arrest of the MVH leaders, I would like to indicate that I filed the complaint. Two, after 2010, you appointed these people, so the conversion was not justified by that, not by the former leaders, but by those you put there, or by the Chamber, which also belongs to you, or to the head of the MVH. And unfortunately, the circle isn't complete. There are, like, a hundred of them, but I don't think one or two of the ringleaders are there, so I'll be able to sort that out later. I'm just saying this for the record, so don't be proud of that. That's one of them. The other one. Do you read Agroinform and its forum page? [[John Lazarus nodds.]] I suggest to you: there are 400 comments in the present; I will not read them now, because my time is short, but I could read from them what they write to you. The other one. You will have it at your house for the biggest animal in Hungary on the weekend, and I'm sure you don't care, but if you go home, you'll have to take a little bit of cow smell, believe me. The other is to at least talk to farmers directly [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And then you'll see that the 90 percent might have gotten something...
u2017-05-02-35	Congressman, do you accept the answer or not?
u2017-05-02-36	I don't accept it.
u2017-05-02-37	Come on. Thank God! [[Defiance.]] The Member therefore did not accept the answer. I ask the House whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] With 115 votes in favour, 32 against and no abstentions, the House accepted the answer. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister. Starting in the footsteps of George Soros, how credible is it now to deny your former mathematician? It's an address. The congressman has the floor.
u2017-05-02-38	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. As expected, a bill designed to ensure the transparency of civil society organisations has not achieved undivided success on the part of the broad public. However, I am afraid that social resistance also feeds a large part on the fact that you cannot give a credible voice to the clearly welcome need for transparency. Not long ago, Gábor Vona asked the Prime Minister about the sources connected to György Soros, which state leaders were in office. The essence of the typically fidesz, arrogant and pompous response, signed by Csaba Dömötör, can be summarized in half a sentence: you simply replied that the question itself was illegal. That's why you're infinitely uncredited, two-faced! As a champion of truth, as they please, they impose obligations on others - right now for civilians, but who knows who tomorrow, for whom - which they do not consider binding on themselves. If it's about you, then even the questioning is illegal, by Csaba Dömötör. It also shows that their relationship with government is sick. Instead of viewing government as a service to the Hungarian people, they believe that they are above the law and can do anything. Do you think that it is not known to the public that, as the Prime Minister himself, József Szájer, László Kövér, Mária Schmidt, Tamás Deutsch, Zsolt Németh, but even Árpád Habony enjoyed George Soros's favor? Obviously, among the state leaders currently in office, we could even find a number of prominents made by the sugar daddy. Why else would you feel awkward about questions of endurance? So I ask you, do you not plan to choose credibility in this matter rather than lack of credibility? Believe me, the public is more concerned with your involvement than the individual civil society organisations are. Don't you think that this time it would be most humble to disclose the identity of the relevant state leaders? Don't give me, God, voluntarily repay the once-beautiful, once-beautiful green-bellied dollars today? Don't you think that instead of being bullshit and being arrogant and arrogant, you should just throw clean water at me? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-02-39	In response, Secretary of State, Mr. Csaba Dömötör, please.
u2017-05-02-40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would also like to tell you here that, in our view, a scholarship does not mean that a feudal oath should be received by a university or a supporter of the university. I can see that there are many people in Hungarian public life who say in an instructive and accountable tone that if anyone has ever been around the CEU before - ever in his life - he must also be bound to accept and accept an ideology, but we do not agree with that. Especially when the university, the main supporter of the university in question, is engaging in a public activity contrary to the interests of the country, especially in the matter of migration, where it finances activist groups who would weaken Hungary's defence capacity, break down the border lock, and some of them even report the country to make millions at the address of litigation. Well, that's not something we'd like to accept, unlike you. As far as scholarships are concerned, I'm sorry that you don't understand the meaning of the answer, and that is that individual ministries don't have a record of who received what kind of scholarship before their career in public life. At the same time, the biographies of the members of the government are available, public, and you can find them on the kormany.hu website. Listening to his speech, one wonders what it feels like to say the opposite of what Jobbik represented on the issue of transparency, for example, just a few months ago. Not long ago, your party president said that Parliament should investigate the so-called "rights protection organisations" - so-called "cat" - who and how they are financed. Jobbik's 2014 programme was to put an end to the deceitful activities of international rights organisations. [[Dóra Dúró: That's right!]] I bring up a lot of things for you guys to do with Jobbik's election program. I'd suggest that the Jobbiks be turned with love, because they'll see that they're facing points one by one. [[It's constant noise.]] This 180-degree turn, of course, is not too surprising from the point of view that Jobbik has become a billionaire, and today it is nothing more than a pair pulled on a wire. [[A voice from the benches of MSZP: That's it, I agree!]] This is why they have not campaigned, among other things, on the quota referendum, and therefore have not voted in favour of the anti-quota constitutional amendment. Even with the posters, the lives of the parties bought with a few dozen posters. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches.]] Honourable Congressman, By the way, there have been parties since the change of regime that have overwritten their most important principles, and has been incorporated into the left-wing parties: they were called SZDSZ. We just want to ask Jobbik: do not make at least one mistake for the party SZDSZ! No matter how much debt is now accumulated, their financial debts, at least the electricity bill, do not leave public debt behind, as the SZDSZ did! Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. It's constant noise.]]
u2017-05-02-41	I ask the congressman if he will accept the answer.
u2017-05-02-42	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Dömötör, you haven't been here before, but I don't know if you remember or watched the story of Fidesz: they started their activities as a youth organization of SZDSZ [[An uproar in the pro-government benches: Lies! That's a lie! You're lying! The president's ringing the bell.]] And liberals are what they are now. You would've fit in that picture anyway. In fact, I would remind you that while you're sitting there in that red velvet chair, you might learn to understand the words and listen to what people say. In fact, I would remind you of Lajos Kósa's words: your group leader said that it is important to see who represents what position and what interest in Hungary. I still think that your civil cause is nothing more than a political product, a joke. If they really thought what they were saying, they would take on the same principle for themselves, and they would rule and make a statement about them. In my opinion, it is important to see what position Fidesz represents in Hungary and in what interest to quote the words of Lajos Kósa: this is what people want to hear. I'm thinking, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You represent the interests of George Soros in the various state institutions. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-02-43	Congressman, you must have missed the fact that I gave you the floor by asking if you would accept the answer. [[György Szilágyi: No, thank you.]] He won't take it. I'm happy for you. Thank you very much. I ask this House if they will accept the answer. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 111 votes to 29, with one abstention. [[14.20]] István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. What about the education of children with special needs and disabilities? It's an address. The congressman has the floor.
u2017-05-02-44	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Once again, the government has hidden the latest changes in education policy into a salad law. In the future, the Education Secretary-General would relax on the employment requirements of teachers working with children with special educational needs with disabilities. In some cases, it would not be mandatory to employ staff with a medical education degree, but they would also be exempt from the degree of teaching. The cabinet doesn't hide the fact that it's trying to deal with the increasingly insane lack of educators. The decision is justified by giving up the requirements for a high level of professional education rather than by not having anyone who cares about children at all. This, however, Mr Secretary of State, is a perverse argument when, after seven years of government, it was discovered that there was a shortage of teachers. It was already 5 to 10 years ago that 40 to 50 thousand teachers could retire in the next decade, i.e. every third of the current teachers. This is a huge problem, as after the positive trend of the last one or two years, there are not enough candidates for these posts, and the teaching field is not attractive enough for young people. Secretary of State, first of all, why did you reinstall these important measures into a salad law? Why didn't you come up with a new, independent, own legislative initiative? Why did they set an unrealistically low opinion time again? Do you really think it's possible to call social consultation what you're given four days for, and on the big week, including the long Easter weekend? Why can't there be real consultations, real consultations, why does the government stop this? And as to the content of the proposal: why do you want to tackle the shortage of teachers by making the conditions dumb? There is indeed a need to act, but what if they really made the career of a teacher and a teacher attractive in front of young people? This would, of course, require a substantial increase in the wages of teachers, and the amount of allowances not exceeding HUF 10 000 in ridiculous gross. And if teaching teachers are paid by the school districts, they should not be paid an hourly fee of 2-3 thousand HUF gross, but an actual higher amount. Secretary of State, it is indeed better to employ unskilled staff in addition to children with disabilities than to let no one deal with them, but this was also the case in the 1980s, Mr Secretary of State. We think it's the 21st. It would be a much better and only acceptable solution in the first century if they were highly qualified teachers, both financially and in terms of working conditions. Why aren't they on this road?
u2017-05-02-45	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2017-05-02-46	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Just because it's a salad law, honourable Member, doesn't mean you have to talk about it, because you have a lot of ideas, one with the other, and the other with the third. Allow me to try to go through what you may have misjudged or did not express every part of the truth. Which means the numbers and proportions of the teaching career, honourable Member, since we introduced the teaching career and increased the average wage of teachers by one and a half times, and since we have announced a Klebelsberg scholarship, which gives an additional scholarship to those who, in a disadvantaged region, especially in a region with a lack of education, are willing to study and train as teachers at 18 years of age, the number of teachers has increased by one and a half times as a result, which is important because universities can choose who will be teachers of the future from a much wider schooling group. We hope that if they can choose from a wider range, there will be better teachers later. In recent years, too, the government has done a great deal to increase our attention to those with specific educational needs or with integration, learning or behavioural problems. In the last six years, therefore, there have been 1305 more staff in the public education system, some in schools, some in the specialist services, but 1305 more are paying attention, as it is also a phenomenon that we all see that there are more and more children with snippets and more btm in schools, which is why we needed to increase the number of people who work in these jobs by 1305. In fact, we would like to continue this in the future, and in recent weeks we have announced an EFOP programme with a budget of almost HUF 7 billion, part of which is to ensure that teachers who develop children with disabilities are as skilled as possible in schools, as many as possible. The traveler's pedagogical system provides a very large amount of support, and it also strengthens the pedagogical services, if fortunately there are not enough children in a school to require a teacher with such special qualifications, then they can go to and provide assistance to one, another, third school. At the same time, since there has been a state reserve of educational institutions, it has been found in many places that rural schools have operated for years or even generations in such a way that there has not been an adequate specialized education, or that the care of children with btm or sni is inadequate with the medical educator. Therefore, this phenomenon has been brought to the attention of the government by teachers, on the round table of public education, in the strategic working group of teachers, that this is an existing problem in Hungary, and that some kind of response must be given. One way of doing this is by this bill, which says that if you have a sectoral education, so you know that area, and you've done it in practice, and you're willing to get a teaching degree within five years, you can teach these children, give them first and foremost knowledge of science, because if you're going around the country, you're meeting teachers, school principals, and most of all, in science, they say they need a teacher. This type of deficiency, when no one has been able to deal with these students in substance right now, can be dealt with by this proposal, and I ask you not to say or write down such things as unskilled people will be teaching children, because everyone has either pedagogical skills or a specific sector, such as science or music skills, and, in addition, undertakes to acquire their missing qualifications within five years, but I believe that this is in any event for the benefit of children, especially children in rural schools. You always speak here for the children of rural school. Perhaps you could support a proposal drawn up for this purpose. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It could also have supported the increase in the budget for teachers' wages by more than HUF 260 billion in recent years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-02-47	I ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2017-05-02-48	Secretary of State, you did not answer my question as to why, during the big week, during the Easter break, and why they chose such a narrow deadline, why they gave so much. Secretary of State, you're speaking against facts. Why relax the terms when there's so much more therapeutic educators? Let's look at the numbers you're ignoring. Secretary of State, a beginner educator with a master's degree, according to the payroll, earns a gross HUF 196 thousand. If you add this 18 700 HUF supplement, which you will receive as a supplement, then you will not be able to receive more than 143 thousand HUF net, even at best, the start-of-the-line medical educator. Would that be attractive, Mr. Secretary, for a career beginner? Look at this, Secretary of State, this amount is HUF 39 000 less than the net average wage in Hungary, it is 50 thousand forints less than the average salary. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Mr. Secretary, this is not going to be attractive to anyone. I don't accept the answer.
u2017-05-02-49	The Member did not accept the answer, so I ask the House whether it accepts the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 109 votes to 30, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Szilárd Németh, a representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. The people of the Soros organization with the title Röszkén az előztődék. The congressman has the floor.
u2017-05-02-50	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In the light of the events of recent months, it is clear that we are under unprecedented pressure against our country, in which migrant organisations financed from abroad are also involved. These organisations receive a lot of money from György Soros to encourage illegal migrants and bring them into Europe uncontrolled for millions. We can say without exaggerating that they will use all means to attack our country. These organisations not only threaten Hungary's independence and national security by trying to influence Hungary's immigration policy with foreign money, but they openly encourage migrants and smugglers to circumvent Hungarian and European laws. [[14.30]] Now we know that Soros' people are running a well-functioning migrant business. On one side of this, there are the Soros organisations that not only help mass immigration, but also make tens of billions with the help of the Strasbourg court. On the other hand, in the Strasbourg court, there are also Soros's people, who will ensure that these organisations are well off and that Hungary will be punished in the lawsuits. We can see this well for the two Bangladeshi migrants. The names of András Sajó, who is part of the Soros network, are also among the judges who made the ruling. András Sajó is also a member of the Soros Helsinki Committee, which then awards HUF 2.7 million in a single lawsuit. This is an incredibly vile but well-built system, which is about the decision of Soros's people in Strasbourg about how much money the Soros organisations are going to make using migrants to the detriment of Hungarian taxpayers. This is not about human rights, humanitarian measures or justice, especially the rights and interests of Hungarian people. Dear Secretary of State, Recently, the Soros organization's people also protested in Röszké, arriving at the scene by organized transport, buses and cars. Their objective is to ensure that there are no borders, no defences, and Hungary gives up external border protection, break down technical and legal barriers guaranteeing the safety of European and Hungarian people. In view of all this, I ask Mr Secretary of State whether the government is prepared to oppose such provocations. Are there sufficient police forces in border areas who can maintain the protection of the state border, the security of the country and Europe in all situations? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-02-51	I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2017-05-02-52	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to reassure you and this House that the Hungarian government is prepared to prevent any provocation. I would also like to draw your attention and reassure you and this House that the government, the Hungarian authorities, have the power to defend the southern border and to protect Hungary and the European Union's borders against everyone. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, At the southern border, Hungarian police and defence officers protect the safety of Hungarian and European people. Fidesz and the government will stand by the security of the Hungarian and European people and the protection of the Schengen borders, even if this has put them at the crossroads of Brussels and migrant organisations supported from abroad. For the government, the security of the Hungarian people is the priority. Evidence of this is the creation of a triple defense. The tightened legal border closure entered into force on 28 March, and on 28 April we handed over the built second line of fences at the Hungarian-Serbian border. Of course, the Hungarian government will not give up border protection and its migration policy so far. The government is averting all provocations in relation to border protection. The demonstrators and the organisations that are attacking Hungary because of the tighter physical and legal border closure are repeatedly mistaken. The transit zone is not a prison. The applicants are there of their own free will. You can leave the transit zone to Serbia at any time and your personal leave is not limited. On 26 April, at a meeting of the National Security Committee, the members of the Committee were able to ascertain the circumstances in the transit zone. I myself, along with the members of the committee, have found that humane conditions are available even for families with small children. On 15 April 2017, a demonstration was announced on behalf of the MigSzol organisation by a person with Austrian citizenship. In order to prevent infringements, additional police forces were deployed to the site in addition to the personnel otherwise present. The police line wall proved to be a sufficient deterrent, and no one attempted to approach or damage the fence. To sum up, therefore, I can say that any accusations concerning the treatment of migrants by the Hungarian Government are completely unfounded. The Hungarian government provides asylum seekers with conditions that they may not have had in their country of departure. I ask the honourable Member to accept my reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-02-53	I give the floor back to Szilárd Németh. Here you go.
u2017-05-02-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Of course, I accept your answer, because it is clear from the figures that the strengthened legal and technical border closure works, but I would like us to continue to focus on a problem, which is a matter of foreign-funded brokerage organisations. We're not alone in Europe with him. Last time, the news and figures came from Italy - I would like to quote from this - that 36 000 people arrived in Italy in the first quarter through the Mediterranean, and 70 percent of these 36 thousand were transported by migrant-friendly organisations, NGOs or agency organisations, which the Italians called non-translucent. In any case, the law that we would like to adopt here in Parliament will mean a clear, clear situation for us. I think that the demonstration and the further will that has taken place so far in Röszkén [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Soros's party, György Juhász the attack on the fence announced by him, it all shows that we must be vigilant. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-02-55	Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior: in his view it is acceptable that Tibor Pogácsás has been in contact with off-shore companies and is opening his own company's plant as secretary of state? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2017-05-02-56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister of State, several press organisations have reported on the remarkable business relations they have, as they owned a company called Gastland Flight Catering Ltd., which involved an offshore company in Liechtenstein. This offshore company is strangely registered in Liechtenstein at the same address as VolDan Kft., which deals with the issue of a settlement policy. Weird coincidences don't end here. Tibor Pogácsás, State Secretary, has another partner who can be identified on the basis of company registration data, who is a real offshore knight, runs foundations in Liechtenstein with complete transparency and participates in the Hungarian business life. In addition, Tibor Pogácsás's former business partner is involved in a company that has acquired considerable revenue in Monor City's real estate matters. In 2009, at the time of the mayorship of Tibor Pogácsás, the Monori municipality sold the plot that was later chosen for the construction of the Monori Sports Hall. So the local government's real estate developer took back the property from the company for HUF 158 million in 16 and sold for HUF 100 million. The difference is 58 million forints, with which the lucky company, Tibor Pogácsás, was enriched by his business partner. And the tip of the iceberg is that it was also openly patronized by Tibor Pogácsás as Secretary of State with this suspicious company; in April 2015, Gastland Flight Catering Kft., in its capacity as Secretary of State, handed over in solemn terms. his limping plant. Let me put it this way, Minister, because I think it is pathetic that you are sitting here and your minister is not answering a question I intended for him, because he should answer it. Do you think it is okay for your Secretary of State to take part in the public office at the opening of his own company's plant? Is it okay that the associate of the Secretary of State responsible for municipal affairs is involved in a transaction that is linked to the municipality that he has previously led? Is it okay that your secretary of state owned an economic company together with an offshore company? Do you not find the offshore network with which your secretary of state dealt as mayor and later as a private person odd? Could it be a coincidence that the name of the company selling the settlement policy would appear in the vicinity of this business circle? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-05-02-57	I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go.
u2017-05-02-58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It's really the way you said it was. On several occasions, left-wing media featured my large 10-percent sale of HUF 300,000 in a kft. I would like to stress that this is the KFT. a company registered in Hungary, operating legally and performing all its payments. in which a change of ownership took place, at the end of which Hungarian natural persons became owners in Kft. [[14.40]] The congressman brought up the management of Monor City when I was mayor. May I assure you, Congressman, that the municipality of Monor has kept the laws in order at all times and managed properly. [[Dr. László Kács: Now I'm calm!]] taking into account the interests of citizens. [[Dr. László Kács: I am calmed down!]] In 2009, under your governance, the NAV and the State Audit Office also carried out an investigation and a target examination, so you can rest easy on the management of the city, Congressman, the city was properly managed. I'm not myself, I've never been the owner of a foreign-registered, foreign-based company. I can't tell you who started a company and why they did it there. Obviously, you or you, if you have any further interest, will look into it. I don't think I should be in any way responsible for anyone's economic activity with whom I have no or no economic relations in this context. As regards the transfer of the plant: honourable Member, I have been invited to my former constituency for the transfer of a plant, which has otherwise been built entirely from private capital and has not used public or European Union support to build it. This plant creates jobs, pays taxes, pays property taxes to the locality. So I would say that your activities are certainly useful to the particular city. By the way, it has actually been described that I am the owner of this plant. This is simply not true, neither Gastland Flight Kft. nor I am the owner, nor am I the owner of this plant in any way, through the company, or in any other way as owner of this plant. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-02-59	I'll return the floor to the congressman in return.
u2017-05-02-60	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Secretary, you haven't calmed me down a bit. He didn't calm me down because he didn't answer, but then you think it's okay that your city sells a property for 100 million forints at the time of its mayor, then buys back for 158 million forints, thereby enriching a private circle, by the way, by the way. It's a pretty rough profit, and it seems like a pretty serious public waste of money. But you think it's okay. You also think it's okay that you don't know what kind of company you're registering, but that means you've owned an offshore company for years or at least a long time, which is otherwise involved, or at least is registered at the same address in Liechtenstein by some miracle as the company with the settlement obligation. If you think that's okay, Mr. Secretary, then we don't think it's okay that you're Secretary of State and that you're in charge of municipal affairs in Hungary. We think you should resign. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-05-02-61	I will translate for the majority that the Member probably did not accept the answer, at least that is what he wanted to say. I ask this House whether it accepts the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 106 votes in favour, 29 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Now, István Apáti, representative of Jobbik, who submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:, How long do they dare to see Hungarian farmers as birds? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2017-05-02-62	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Last year, as in 2015, Hungarian agriculture was hit by very serious natural disasters, and in spring the frost destroyed - unfortunately this spring too - and in summer the hails and storms caused a great deal of damage. In the context of the latter damage, it is necessary to highlight the rug bombing-like hail and ice storm that occurred on 21 June 2016 in a large part of the county of Pest and Bács-Kiskun and, unfortunately, in the region of Satmar, that caused damage to agriculture and the population of billions of years. After the disaster occurred last summer, I turned to the authorities with a number of written questions and requests for data in the public interest, including the ministry you led. To put it simply, the answers have shown that you believe that the agricultural compensation scheme, the Compensation Fund, is working well, and that the thousands of farmers who see it quite the opposite are wrong. I guess farmers aren't competent enough. But let's translate the problem into the language of numbers, Minister. The annual production value of the garden is approximately HUF 1600-1900 billion in Hungary. The Compensation Fund receives about HUF 10 billion each year with public contributions, which represents only half of the production value, and the loss of return value in an average year of damage - I am talking about loss of return value - about HUF 200-400 billion, which represents 15-25 percent of the production value. And if we look at how the loss of return value and the damage payments relate to each other, we can see that only 2-5 percent of the damage or loss of return will be recovered from the Compensation Fund at best. The thing is, it sounds good to share the risk of damage and the risks between producers, purchasers and the state, but unfortunately, that's the story. The reality is, in the end, farmers always get whipped. That is why we should change this system, but you do not seem to consider it necessary. In accordance with our good practice, we not only outline the problem, not only criticize the government, but also try to provide a solution. Compared to annual cultures, special rules should finally be laid down for plantation crops due to differences in characteristics, and the return value-based damage report should be based on return loss claims, Minister, and the state aid rate for agricultural insurance premiums should also be increased. To make it even more simple: the problem is that the Hungarian farmer will receive a few hundred thousand forints of compensation at the moment in case of a ten-million-percent loss. That is why I ask you: are you willing to change the rules of the Compensation Fund, are you willing to set up another extraordinary fund? And when do you realize that these unsolved problems have caused Hungarians to become competitive even against Romanian farmers, not just against Poles? I'm waiting for your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-05-02-63	Minister Sándor Fazekas has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-02-64	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungarian farmers, agricultural production, we are well aware of the increasing incidence of elemental damage, which has a negative impact on both crops, food produced from them and farmers' incomes. Recognizing this, our wallet has been paying particular attention to agricultural risk management and risk prevention for years, we have a legal background, a system of legislation that is unprecedented in many respects in the European Union. For example, such a system does not work at all in Poland and Romania, as referred to by you. Your preparation may be enough for Lajos Simicska, but I think, in the seriousness of Parliament, there are few, honourable Members. Risk management is two-pillar. Agrarian compensation and agricultural insurance premiums support represent this pillar, which can deal with damage events leading to a yield reduction of more than 30% in accordance with EU rules. The current 74,000 farmers participate in the agricultural compensation scheme with nearly 4 million hectares, which is 80 percent of the agricultural area. The agricultural premium premium has increased from HUF 1.5 billion in initial to HUF 8 billion, while the number of subsidised producers has increased from 1600 to HUF 11 200. Obviously, it is also important for producers to take care of themselves to make use of the possibility of agricultural insurance. We obviously have a lot of work to do on this two-pillar system, and we need to continue to develop it. There has been an increase in the scope of the damage covered, the system covers all the damage mentioned by the Member, the damage caused by the spring frost, hail and storms, and six additional risks. The effectiveness of the assessment of injury has improved and claims for compensation and compensation can now be submitted electronically, simplifying the work of producers and authorities. The legislative background will be constantly reviewed on the basis of feedback from producers and EU rules. The current session of the Parliament discusses the proposals containing further major changes, where we count on your support as well. As a result of the development, we hope that an increasing number of donors will be able to benefit from assistance and that a greater amount of compensation will be paid. It should be pointed out that 83 percent of claims for compensation approved last year were submitted by producers with plantings and more than two thirds of the payment will be granted to producers with plantings. However, in many cases, we still find that, in the absence of adequate agricultural insurance, only a part of the compensation that is otherwise due can be paid to farmers, virtually half of them. In 2016, under the Rural Development Programme, HUF 4 billion of insurance premiums were earmarked, and preparations are also being made for the establishment of a national ice compensation system under the auspices of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy. In addition, in 2015 and 2016 we announced an extraordinary loan free of interest, guarantee fees and costs, so it is absolutely free of charge for the victims. I would therefore like to reassure the honourable Parliament that the Government, the Ministry of Agriculture, is doing everything in its power to help farmers affected by natural disasters. [[14.50]] Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Please accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-02-65	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2017-05-02-66	Thank you. Dear Minister, I can't accept the answer. The only thing about Lajos Simicska is that seven years ago, I recall, Lajos Simicska was not attached to me, but rather to you. It's the bedroom-breaking self-goal. Maybe this has something to do with the fact that you may not be running for congress for Fidesz in the Karcag district. That's what we need to deal with. With regard to the Agricultural Compensation Fund, Minister, you didn't say a word, and I know you do. But tell me how only a small portion of the yield loss between HUF 200 billion and HUF 400 billion can be paid in or compensated for, and compensated for from HUF 10 billion. And what you didn't tell me was that the rules of calculation are so that the farmer practically doesn't get anything. In case of a 10-million yield loss, they will receive between 100 and 200 thousand forints. That is the problem, Minister, that is exactly what needs to be changed. It's not enough for compensation, it's not enough for anything. That's not enough to survive even minimally. That is the problem, and you have not answered that, or perhaps you have not understood the question. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-02-67	Congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the House whether it accepts the Minister's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 112 votes to 28, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Péter Harrach and János Harghitai, representatives of KDNP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. What are the experiences of the electronic personal income tax declaration so far? It's an address. Congressman János Harghitai has the floor.
u2017-05-02-68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The KDNP fraction has recently been in this House asking about the electronic health service space. As a reminder to all of us, this is the large electronics system that connects health professionals, doctors, pharmacists, health institutions, background institutions, so all stakeholders can use this large electronics system together. Now my faction would ask me about a large system like this, the issue of NAV. It is well known to all of us that NAV is preparing personal income tax returns for the first time this year. This is basically a statement of our income in 2016 that NAV compiles from the data provided by the employer of individuals, i.e. the paying agent, calculates our income tax instead of us, takes into account the tax advance deducted, and also takes into account tax incentives. The draft tax return is thus presented to us by taxpayers, we can see that our balance is zero, we may have to pay taxes, or we can have a refund. Individuals who requested it by 15 March 2017 have also sent them this draft tax return. And what is more important: if you have a customer portal registration system, you can view the draft tax return prepared by the NAV from 15 March 2017 on various government websites and even add comments to this, make changes, make changes, make changes, provide for 1 plus 1 percent of the offers that you have preferred so far. The individual also had the opportunity to settle the amount of tax to be paid with a credit card or to start his claim back. Dear Minister, On 22 May, the deadline for this year's personal income tax return, which is a relatively close deadline, has passed for more than a month compared to 15 March, since this electronic system has been operating in a tangible way for individuals. That is why I am asking you, Mr Secretary of State, do you have any experience with how this system works in relation to personal income tax returns, how popular it is among individuals, or do you have a specific figure on how many individuals have adopted this draft declaration so far. I look forward to your reply, Minister, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-02-69	I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary.
u2017-05-02-70	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government is determined to cut red tape and reduce administration. I think that it is a very important, you can say, historic stage of this, which started at 19.00 on 15 March, because from then on 3.8 million taxpayers can view the draft personal income tax return. The easiest way to view this is to see if you have a customer's door, you have a password, and you can see the income you earned in 2016, how much taxes paid by paying agents have been deducted, whether you have a tax payable or refundable, and then you can decide what to do. I think that this system is quite unique and very valuable at international level, because it is almost minutes away from meeting the tax liability of the individual, which may have been spent by an accountant at cost and energy. Now, someone will take your mobile phone, make a customer gate, ask for it, and you can see the draft tax return in a matter of minutes, and more than that, you can prepare your declaration here in Parliament and send it in with a button. I think this is a model and an example of how matters can be dealt with between the authority and the individual XXI. It's a hundredth-century way. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Yes, the system is working, since over 820,000 people have viewed the system and 251 thousand have submitted their statements. This means that all three quarters of the applicants did so in the same way, so as the tax authority sent them in its draft. It is very important that not only the personal income tax return can be viewed electronically, but also the person who asked for it by text, post or other means - more than 600,000 people asked for it - has posted the draft by the NAV so that the box is filled out, and the individual does not have to change anything if he accepts the draft return based on the information reported by the paying agents. It is very important to be able to fulfill our 1 plus 1 percent offer right now. We can do this electronically or on a traditional paper basis by mailing to the NAV. It is important that the two systems currently operate simultaneously, the whole new electronic system and the old traditional postal system. But it is clear that it has been substantially reduced, halved by the form, so the number of personal income tax returns sent on the paper basis. We believe that this proves the success of this. The final result will be withdrawn after May 22. But I would like to say that it is very important that there is a new legal situation on 22 May, because if someone does not look at it, they do not respond to the draft personal income tax return either by post or at the NAV customer service in any way, even on 22 May at 0:00 p.m., the NAV essentially considers that they have fulfilled their personal income tax return. If we do nothing, we will still fulfil our obligation to submit tax returns, but the responsibility is, of course, borne by the taxpayer individual for its content. Therefore, I call on everyone to look at the draft personal income tax return and then fulfil their obligation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.00]]
u2017-05-02-71	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I welcome my fellow Members and ask Mr János Harghitai if he accepts the State Secretary's reply. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-02-72	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, those numbers you've presented, I think they're impressive. I didn't expect such an interest myself, knowing that it was a system that hadn't yet been introduced, so it was the first time that citizens met. However, I also think that everything we are talking about is also a question of competitiveness for the functioning of the country, for the functioning of the government, for the functioning of the economy. So the efforts that the government has already made in various sectors to strengthen digital administration are also encouraging in the coming period. We support all such efforts. I accept and thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-02-73	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As an independent representative, Szabolcs Szabó submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior: "Can the new police station in Soroksár be built? It's an address. Congressman Szabolcs Szabó has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-02-74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Looks like we're talking about the Soroksár police station again. Not for the first time, we have had the opportunity to do this on various occasions in oral writing. I would rather tell my fellow Members or viewers what the background is. Soroksar is the only district in the capital where there is no independent police station. It is also important to know that Soroksár is one of the most criminally infected areas in Budapest compared to the population. For this reason, especially after a brutal murder took place in Soroksár in 2013, it was considered that an independent police station should be established. At the time, the government and the district also concluded a contract, and the implementation of the contract was launched in accordance with its commitments. The government has undertaken to set up the organization and then operate the police station, and the district has agreed to build the infrastructure, practically the police station itself. Unfortunately, however, after the land was purchased by the municipality and the export plans were made, the story stopped. There's one objective reason for this, and we're out of money at the Soroksár municipality. Not because of irresponsible management, Mr. Secretary of State obviously knows that the Soroksár budget has decreased by HUF 1 billion compared to last year, from 7.7 to 6.7 billion. This decline is more than 10 percent compared to last year. Their savings also disappeared significantly, because in order to operate the district, they had to make use of their savings to a large extent. From now on, they have no money to pay for this HUF 500-600 million construction. I have already asked the Minister in writing on this matter a long month ago whether the Government does not think that this construction should be managed at the expense of a central budgetary resource in these circumstances. At the time, Minister, you wrote in your reply that there was no need to amend the contract. I then consulted the mayor of Soroksár again, and he indicated that they would be very happy to amend this contract because they had no money to pay for it. From now on, I think it can be considered an official suggestion. So I would like to ask you again, Secretary of State, if you can see an opportunity to build the building of the new police station in Soroksár, which has been on the agenda for more than four years and which you have supported, from the central budget. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-05-02-75	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-02-76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you said, the Soroksár municipality has initiated the establishment of the independent police station at the Ministry of Interior and the construction of the police station building, which was supported by the Ministry of Interior. To this end, a contract was concluded between the Soroksár municipality, the National Police Headquarters and the Budapest Police Headquarters on 26 June 2015. The parties made commitments in this regard. Among other things, the municipality has undertaken to provide the building site, prepare the export plans, build the police building at its own expense, obtain official permits, carry out the procurement procedure. The National Police Headquarters has undertaken to prepare the necessary legislative amendment, the Budapest Police Headquarters has undertaken to prepare the building authorisation plan documentation and the tender design documentation, and also the free reception and operation of the building for an indefinite period of time, the provision of staff and equipment, so the operation of the Soroksár Police Department. The police authorities, I would like to emphasise, have fulfilled their commitments. On the part of the police, there is no obstacle to the construction of the police station in Soroksár, as provided for in the agreement. By the way, we're in regular contact with the municipality. On 14 December 2016, I received the mayor and delegation of Soroksár, the deputy mayor and the other representatives of Soroksár, where we reviewed the state of the construction of the police station. There the mayor of the settlement did not make a request to be financed from the central budget. We trust, the Ministry of Interior, the government, the police trust that this building will be built, the building of the Soroksár Police Department. To this end, we will continue to cooperate with the Soroksár municipality. So let's clear the air, for us, the Ministry of the Interior, such a request has not been made by the municipality's management. They asked what opportunities were available or what other resources were available, but they did not say that they would not fully finance this construction. We want this to happen. We are available for this, and the dialogue, the conciliation process that we have started, will continue to be maintained in the future, and we trust that this department will be built, as this is in the interests of the Soroksarias and the local government. I ask you, Congressman, to accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-02-77	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr Szabolcs Szabó if he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2017-05-02-78	Thank you very much for your answer. There are some things that need to be clarified. It's not in this year's budget, is it, or the building of the Soroksár Police Department, in the district's budget? So it's not gonna build, it's not gonna start the procedure. As I said, I have not once consulted with Mayor on this matter, and I have also consulted him on the text of the interpellation. So you're saying you can't pay for the district, so they're asking me to try and convince the government to take over because they just don't have the money. By the way, he also told me that he hasn't been able to make contact with you in the last few months. So I'd be happy to help you set up a meeting, and let's discuss it with the three of us, whether they can support it or not. 'Cause I see there's no professional debate between us about how we need police headquarters. The question is, can anyone pay for it - Soroksár can't, maybe the government can. That's why I don't accept your answer. Thank you.
u2017-05-02-79	Thank you very much. As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 113 votes in favour, 25 votes against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:, Sándor Fazekas eat what he has cooked. It's an address. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-02-80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, In recent years, we have heard relatively much about the issue of dual food quality in government communication, but in recent weeks this has been resolved. That is why I thought that I would also draw the attention of my fellow pro-government Members to EU research when the European Food Safety Authority carried out research in the European Union and examined over 48,000 samples of food in Norway and Iceland. [[15.10]] The result shows that almost half of Europe's food is contaminated with chemical residues. Overall, 220 chemicals were found in the tested products. The studies also showed that contaminated products contain chemical residues of all kinds of products, meat products, vegetables, and fruit, and that approximately 11 percent of foods for infants and young children were found to contain chemical residues. A total of 1881 samples, 1172 products from Hungary, 48 percent of which contain chemicals and pesticide residues to an unacceptable extent, of which 48 products, namely 2,5 percent, are clearly above the limit, which is therefore harmful to health. The European food investigation has highlighted in part the risks of free trade, which you so faithfully support in the EU and here in the government, either with Canada or with the United States, and on the other hand it shows the shortcomings of the Hungarian food chain monitoring authority. This is why it was interesting that Minister Sándor Fazekas recently made statements at a conference that he clearly degraded the role of environmental protection in the Union, and the Minister for the Environment said specifically that Hungarian farmers should be protected from environmental protection, because this could significantly damage Hungarian productivity and competitiveness. This was about as if we heard the lobbyist of Hungarian large owners and chemical manufacturers and multinationals. And Fidesz has entrusted this environment to such a person. What the Minister said follows from the fact that according to the Hungarian Government, as opposed to European ideas, agriculture must not serve environmental protection, and this is indeed only a tolerated part of agriculture, its handmaid. Obviously, these questions arise because it is apparent in Hungary that there is only a product on the shelves of Hungarian food shops that you allow with your regulations to get there. The government is clearly responsible for the processes that reduce food safety and product quality. There's nothing else on the shelves that you don't contribute to, and their official system is not allowed. That is why it is necessary to keep talking about the issue of dual food quality or the issue of Hungary's food safety and product quality, because as long as they have a minister who violates the environment, there will be no change in this area. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-05-02-81	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister Sándor Fazekas responds to his interpellation by the Member. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-05-02-82	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I listened with interest to Congressman's words. I'm sure I'm not the only one who has noticed that it's not in line with the address of the interpellation submitted, but there's no doubt that you're saying things I've never said, referring to statements that you've arbitraryly twisted, or you don't understand at all what I've said. But, in the end, there is nothing surprising about that, for you have personally stated that you consider yourself unfit and that you have been burned out. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] We have already gained a number of experiences about this in our weekly, frequent comments, and we agree with self-diagnosis. I would also like to reassure the Honourable Parliament, the Hungarian customers and consumers that we are taking care of their health, the authorities are keeping proper controls. I'd also like to give you a few thoughts on that. In all cases, we take better care of the health of the Hungarian people than you were willing to take care of the broken, ruined windmill in Turkeve. On dual-quality foods: consumer opinions, studies carried out by the V4 Member States, but the Hungarian studies also show that this problem does exist, the hundred samples examined, we know well, the public opinion was made known by the Nébih, and it is typical that in about two thirds of them there were serious problems and differences. But as far as I can tell, Honourable Parliament, there are not only dual-quality foods, there is also a dual-quality politician. Róbert Benedek Sallai is such a dual-quality politician, who, on the one hand, pretends to be a poor farmer, a rural man with a difficult fate and, on the other hand, a land record applicant and, at the same time, a civilian or who knows what kind of organization, a billion-dollar representative through interests. Here are some examples, my dear Parliament. Organisations of Róbert Sallai Benedek's interest in the last few years - according to their own data - won 662 million HUF in 2013 in Natura 2000 applications. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] But they won 41 million forints to care for metropolitan relations. (Moraj in the pro-government benches. ) They won 128 million forints in another tender, LIFE competition. Congressman, you were so good that you also won 23 million forints in tourist development. It is always where money is made, it is always successful in applying for it in the EU, and it always tries to act effectively on the line of multi- and EU interests, the Soros interests. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: There was one question!]] I would just like to sum up that in the last period 2012-2015, Róbert Benedek Sallai managed to win HUF 25 million from various places through his interests as a small farmer in rural areas. I'm guessing you'll be able to account for where this money is. After that, this concern for food quality is a little charming, but it is very important for us, and I would like to say that on the subject, residue and food safety issue, the Nébih, the Directorate for Priority Affairs, has been continuously carrying out checks, and over the past two thousand samples of vegetables, fruit and cereals have been examined, both in domestic and imported products. We can say that the number of problematic cases here was seven, that's 0.4 percent of the two thousand. So we protect consumers, we protect customers, and we also protect Hungarian producers who put good quality food on the table. And that will be the case in the future, of course, because that is our primary task, and I would like this to continue to be done on a professional basis, supported by law. I ask Mr. Congressman to accept my reply. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-02-83	Thank you very much, Minister. I will ask Congressman Sallai R. Benedek if he will accept the Minister's reply.
u2017-05-02-84	I don't have a chance to consider it, considering you were talking about something completely different. And since you've brought this up, I need to inform you that I wasn't fed up with public affairs, I was sick of weak politicians who don't understand questions. [[Delight and applause in the opposition benches. Moore from the pro-government benches.]] So that's exactly what I've had enough of. That's why we're retreating. And while we're talking about who's making false claims, I don't know, about food security, that you don't mention that last Friday, the Ministry of Agriculture, Márton Bitay Örs, lost a final lawsuit at the courthouse, and then I'm asking you to transfer the compensation to the millions, which the court has awarded, and I'm asking you to publish on the government website a statement on their lies so far. However, it is clear that you did not answer the question and that it cannot be accepted. In Hungary, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Minister of Trade do nothing to ensure that Hungary's citizens live in greater health and environmental safety. Specifically, you and your government are responsible for cancer [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] and that they are not doing everything possible to get Hungary out of the negative statistics that have been generated in this regard. I don't accept the answer. Thank you for the floor.
u2017-05-02-85	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the Minister's answer. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 110 votes in favour, 27 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Jenő Manninger, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: what is the result of the exploding performance of the construction industry? It's an address. Congressman Manninger Jenő has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-02-86	Dear Secretary of State, Even the first Fidesz government helped families to get their own homes by launching their first home creation program in 2000. The scheme, which was set up at the time, had an interest rate subsidy element, including a discount on housing construction and renovation, and included a possibility of refunding VAT. One of the first measures of the MSZP on the government in 2002 was the abolition of this home creation aid scheme. They did so by promising to keep and even expand the program in the election campaign. It is important to recall this in the memory of the Hungarian people, because in 2018 there will be elections again in Hungary, and it is good for everyone to see how much to believe the promises of the socialists. [[15.20]] Dear House, After 2010, Fidesz was still on the path of families. That's why we started a program for families' home-building benefits. Family home creation benefits are just one element of the new home creation program. Access to the apartment is also supported by VAT reduction and ten million HUF support for the three-year-olds. According to the data of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, the production of buildings and buildings increased by 15.2 percent in February this year. In terms of the future, the positive outlook is that the volume of new contracts increased by 43.5 percent in February after the outstanding figures in December and January. It is also an optimism that the end-of-month contract stock exceeded the same period of the previous year by 117.2 percent at the end of February. Over the course of last year, the number of housing permits issued increased by 2.5 times in annual comparison, with positive prospects, as the number of housing constructions is expected to increase in the next year or two, based on the licences issued. At the same time, it can be said that the construction of new apartments has also increased, as almost 10,000 new apartments have been built in the last year. These outstandingly good results clearly show that we are on the right track. Dear Secretary of State, The performance of the Hungarian economy and thus the situation of the Hungarian people has improved a lot in recent years, giving families the opportunity to get their own homes with the support of the state. I ask the Secretary of State what factors are responsible for this. What are they planning to do in the future to further increase the performance of the construction industry? Thank you and I look forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-02-87	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-02-88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you stress, construction is a major sector of the national economy and also a factor that has a significant impact on the daily life of the population, since the performance of the construction industry determines the country as a whole, GDP development, GDP growth. But it is also important from an employment point of view, because if the construction works well, it also affects employment data. Besides its economic weight, it also affects our everyday life, our existence, as we create homes, build roads, develop public utility networks, create offices and community buildings with the performance of construction. The importance of the sector is undisputed and its performance in the past year is also increasing and positive. As you have mentioned, the number of contracts, the amount of contracts, the volume of contracts, the number of building permits issued is increasing. The general economic environment, the environment created by the country and the government itself, is behind the growth in the performance of the construction industry. The government's market-enhancing measures have increased private activity in the sector. The family home-building discount you mentioned had a very good effect on housing constructions, since by the end of March 2017, more than 42 thousand families submitted a CSOK request, the amount of which exceeds HUF 100 billion. Of course, the impact of this will soon be felt in the performance of the construction industry. It is very important that the government creates a good economic environment, such as by means of other measures such as tax cuts, e.g. reduced housing tax rates or reduced corporate tax rates, the appearance of resources released in the construction sector, or the six-year wage agreement, which means not only a rise in wages, but also a significant reduction in public burdens. This is all a measure that has a positive impact on the economy and a positive impact on the performance of the construction industry. At the same time, infrastructure developments, construction and expansion of buildings linked to the new EU budget cycle will also lead to significant growth for the construction industry. It is very important that the government tries not only to help with economic measures, but also with other efficiency measures. These include simplifying legislation, simplifying construction procedures and thereby significantly increasing competitiveness and significantly improving it. The Competitiveness Council has just been established, one of the specific objectives of which is to achieve significant facilitations in the field of construction. Using modern technologies, we are also trying to help improve the productivity and efficiency of the construction industry. Overall, on the basis of the data and background that the Member has provided and requested, as well as KSH data, evidence that the construction sector has started upward. The government is doing everything it can to increase the performance of the construction industry, thereby increasing the overall performance of the economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-02-89	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2017-05-02-90	Thank you very much, I accept. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-02-91	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. Back to the Middle Ages? ! While small kings and landlords are filling each other's pockets, turning the country's population into servants and slaves? It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-02-92	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, When everyone is concerned that the Prime Minister of the country is the puppet of a foreign country, that the oligarchs, small kings, and landlords are robbing the country and only filling each other's pockets, then many may not even notice that they are turning the country's population into servants and slaves. The government seems to have one goal with the Hungarian people: to bring it back to the Middle Ages. This is what we see when education is shattered by reducing the age limit for compulsory education and when universities are closed. Let the Hungarian people be silly. But this is also what we see when workers' rights are constantly being undermined, when workers are becoming more vulnerable, when they are increasingly insecure about how long they have work, and if they lose it, they will only receive a little support for a very short period of time to find a job. They turn public sector workers into public workers, who do the same job for a lot less money, and they're still lucky to have it. Recently, a bill has been tabled that would essentially strengthen this slave fate. A planned amendment to the Labour Code would further broaden the working time framework. With this, the government would have permanently enslaved the workers. Apart from the fact that this is bad for all workers, who are the worst affected by this measure again? Of course, women, the Hungarian women you speak of as a servant who is only good for giving birth, raising children, caring for elderly people, all of this while working naturally. Of course, the foundation is that in Hungary women still earn much less than men. The government ignores Hungarian women. This can be seen from the fact that there are no women among the leaders, especially in the government. The Prime Minister says it's just fun, but it's a man's job. The protests we see are supposed to have caused them to back off from the amendment to the Labour Code, but we never know when they're smuggling it back in another salad proposal, just like we're used to. The reasons for the proposal included the need for a more flexible solution to regulation because of economic developments. I doubt the government would suddenly think otherwise. For all these reasons, I ask the Secretary of State: is their momentary setback just one of the campaign catches? What's to be expected in 2018? Why do they want to increase the vulnerability of workers? Why do they want to tear apart Hungarian society, Hungarian families, even more? When will a woman's work be worth as much as a man's work, Mr. Secretary of State? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-05-02-93	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-02-94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to reject your comments and questions full of slippages that you have spoken within the framework of the slumbers. [[15.30]] Let's look at the facts. The Government of Hungary, when renewing the Labour Code, set the goal of adapting the rules of the world of work to the jobs concerned by the parties directly concerned. In previous years, the social partners have made a number of proposals on the Labour Code, of which there were a small number of proposals that both employers and workers' representatives would have accepted, and therefore the comprehensive review could not have taken place. The government remains open to all initiatives. In some cases, of course, it was the government who proposed to the social partners their individual proposals for consideration or reflection. The VKF partners were able to put their proposals on the agenda at any time, and this is happening at the moment within the framework of the VKF, and the discussion continues at a professional level and at the level of the VKF. About the working hours, because you brought that up. On the basis of EU examples, the Parliament's Economic Committee, as several have already indicated during and after the debate, approached a labour law regulation issue for economic policy reasons and from the side, wanted to amend the existing rules so that trade unions and employers could gain greater powers in the field of working time organisation, and even to say that they could not have agreed without a specific contract, this would not have been a generally extended option to manage the working time frame. The Ministry of National Economy met with the relevant organisations after the general debate and has been on the agenda of the VKF ever since. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It also brought about the employment situation of women. I have to say that it would have been good if you had looked at the 2010 figures or even the period before 2010, because the government measures taken since the 2010 government change resulted in a significant improvement in the situation in Hungary. Since the change in the system, KSH has not measured as high female employment in Hungary as it is today: the number of female employees has been increasing steadily since the low end of 2010, with an increase of some 250 thousand during that period; the employment rate of women aged 15 to 64 has already exceeded 60% in 2016 on average, to be more than 60.2 percent, which is also a peak of more than two decades. In addition to improving the employment situation, the government has done a great deal in recent years to reduce wage differences between men and women. It should be pointed out that between 2013 and 2015, our country made the greatest progress in reducing gender pay differentials among EU countries. These are the facts, Congresswoman, which you are concealing, or are trying to mislead your students by slipping. Government measures have played a crucial role in this, namely the significant wage increases in public education, health and social institutions with high female employment rates in recent years. I would like to remind you that when we took over governance in 2010, gender pay differentials, also according to Eurostat data, showed an average of 17,6 percent in Hungary, which we managed to reduce to 14 percent by the end of 2015. I ask you, therefore, what right does a socialist Member have to take account of the current government in terms of wages when we are also left with a very serious legacy in this regard. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-02-95	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély if she will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2017-05-02-96	Thank you, Mr. President. I didn't know, Mr. Secretary, that we exchanged seats and then in 2018. Okay? Let's agree on that. Mr. Secretary. Between 2012 and 2015, the number of Hungarian students in the five most important countries increased by 40%. In the last seven years, the number of students in higher education has decreased by about 80,000. About 600,000 people left this country, and one in six Hungarian children are born abroad. If things were as rosy as you answered me, I wouldn't count these numbers. Mr. Secretary. The other day, an old lady said that anything they do to us can be tolerated, but one thing she won't forgive your government is that your children and grandchildren are out there. Because, you know, you can live without money, but without the love that you took from these people, [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Without love, there can be no such thing as love, and these people do not receive love. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] 'Cause your family's all out of the country now, and they don't want to come home, Mr. Secretary. I don't accept the answer, Mr. President.
u2017-05-02-97	Dear Parliament, As we have heard, the congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 28 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Member Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: Why doesn't family allowance also apply to children studying in higher education institutions? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-02-98	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Jobbik has been constantly drawing the government's attention to the problems that unfortunately still determine the situation of young Hungarians, including their higher education education, because in the case of many students, although it intends to learn further in higher education, the family's financial opportunities do not allow this. Many people, therefore, either give up further education or try their luck abroad, leaving their families, their friendly communities, their homes, and it is saddening that this trend is increasing. It is a statistical fact that almost 80 percent of emigrants have been young since 2009. Dear Secretary of State, Jobbik's firm position is that besides a sufficient number of skilled skilled workers, our country needs as many young graduates as possible, the nation's strategic goal is to encourage and support the acquisition of a diploma, since the existence of a diploma makes it much easier to find a job in the labour market. Based on a survey, 80 percent of job seekers managed to work after obtaining the absolutorium, and a third of them did so within a month. We believe that the higher the level of education is also the key to the country's competitiveness, leading to an increase in it. However, the period of inclusion in higher education institutions and the period until graduation presents extraordinary challenges for young people, since today it is becoming increasingly expensive to go to university or college. Consider only the payment of the monthly tuition fee for the cost-paid students, but also the financing of rent or dormitory accommodation, meals, travel and expenditure related to studies also consumes serious amounts. Based on this, it can be concluded that even with a cheaper dorm space, without major extra expenses, it costs between HUF 50 and 70 thousand and tens of thousands of HUF more a month for a young person. Therefore, Jobbik would like college students to receive a family allowance. The elimination of abuse could also be partly achieved by allowing young people only up to a certain age, so that it is not possible to go to college simply because of the payment of family allowances for decades. This extra amount would be a huge help for students to start or to continue their studies in a barrier-free way, because it cannot be fair that the financial situation of parents, the family's wallet, determines whether their child can get into higher education or get a degree, and that is the most characteristic at present. Dear Secretary of State, On this basis, I ask why family allowances do not also apply to children studying in higher education institutions for families. Why hasn't this support been extended to them so far? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-02-99	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Minister of State, Bence Rétvári, will answer his interpellation question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-02-100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In the last seven years, the Fidesz-KDNP government has perhaps expanded and broadened the range of family support in Europe as well. When we took over the government in 2010, the Hungarian state spent 966 billion forints on supporting Hungarian families, which is now 1741 billion forints, or 80 percent more than in 2010. I do not think that we will find another European country where there has been an increase in family support of 80 percent. This includes family support in money, tax relief - the largest, since since 2011, since the introduction of family-type taxation, we have left HUF 1558 billion in the family that they have been able to devote to children, to the education and care of children - but there are also family-related services that are included in the 80 percent expansion: the additional sources of nursery, kindergarten, protective care, home-building support, or even 40, women's reduced retirement, which they can already deal with with their grandchildren. [[15.40]] One of the most outstanding is the CSOK, the family's home-building discount, which Jobbik did not support in the fiscal law, but in 2017 it represents HUF 211 billion in support, but the former ged extra was also used by many people; the CSOK, in total, was worth HUF 41 thousand for families, HUF 101 billion. The family allowance is also a monthly regular allowance for families to help raise children. The family-type tax system takes into account young people studying in higher education during the day. If he has a younger brother or sister, although he is already studying in higher education, but regardless of the family where there are two children, he is considered a family of two in higher education and a family of two in public education in terms of tax relief for a smaller child. And if there are two children in school, one in elementary school, one in high school, and one in college, then the university age also counts in the sense that the other two children are entitled to tax relief as if they were the second or third children. Thus, family-type taxation also takes into account the inclusion of a student or student in higher education in a supplemental formula, so it is also taken into account. At the same time, in higher education, we want to promote participation in education primarily through scholarship and social scholarship, so since 2010 we have also increased the framework available for the various benefits for students. On the one hand, this is now much more secure for students than before; it can also be guaranteed from a social point of view, especially for those who are obviously coming under more difficult financial conditions, and there are scholarships for studies that can be used depending on the results of the study. It is also important in relation to your written question that it will be free of charge for young people from the beginning of 2018; they can receive it with post-financing from the New Generation Centre. Student Loan1 and Student Loan2 are both popular forms, as Student Loan1 has been used by 350,000 people and Student Loan2 has been used by 25 000 people. What you said as a gift that it is easy to get a degree in Hungary is not the case in all European Union countries, and it is no coincidence that this is the case, since the Hungarian government has spent 28 billion HUF on job support for young people in recent years. Unemployment is low among those under the age of 30, as employers used support in the job protection action plan after 167 191 Hungarians, which, as I said, is HUF 28 billion. Therefore, the lack of a degree has almost completely disappeared and youth unemployment [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It is by far a fraction of the EU average. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-02-101	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2017-05-02-102	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, You said they were trying to help young people with scholarships. Please answer the question as to when you have raised the amount that you have not raised for academic scholarships. Since 2007. Since 2007, no student norm has been raised, from which academic scholarships are financed. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We weren't on the government...]] That's how you try to help young people. You were happy about how many people took up student loans. Why are you so happy that young people are forced to pay themselves in debt? Dear Secretary of State, Please look these young people in the eye and say that they are pleased that so many people have been forced to take up student loans. And he didn't answer the very logical question that if a 17-year-old who lives in high school and probably still lives at home or in a cheap college, then the family allowance is still due, then a year later, when someone is admitted to a university, and his education costs a lot more, he has to travel, he has to pay tuition, he may have to pay rent, and then there's no family allowance. You have not answered this question, and I cannot accept your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-05-02-103	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, the congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 112 votes in favour, 30 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, has submitted an interview with the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:. What is the Paks loan for if we repay it immediately? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-05-02-104	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, According to your announcement the other day, the first instalment of the Russian loan in Paks can be drawn within a week or two, which the Hungarian State would immediately repay. Hungary will therefore act as the dumbest foreign exchange taxer: it will take up the expensive euro loan, even though it does not need it. There is no acceptable reason for irrational action, but there is an explanation. In January 2014, Viktor Orbán concluded a hasty agreement contrary to Hungarian interests with Vladimir Putin, and now we are trying to withdraw from the unfavorable loan agreement in vain. There is more evidence of Hungary moving on a forced course because of the Orbán-Putin pact. On the one hand, you have been saying for a year that our credit market positions today are much more favourable than they were in 2014, at the time of the conclusion of the credit agreement, and we will therefore rather finance the planned expansion from the international financial markets. On the other hand, until President Putin's visit to Budapest in February, the government was documented for market financing, and only by the unexpected announcement of the Russian leader did he know that there was no way to cancel the Russian loan. As one of the basic principles of economics states, there is no free credit. The Hungarian State will continue to pay billions this year as a maintenance commission for the Russian loan that we do not want to take or use. Moreover, in reality, it is not even a matter of keeping it available, because the same part of credit flows between the Hungarian and Russian parties, only the Hungarian government, which has no idea of the nature of banking transactions, pays for it, as the military officer, of course, not from the private income of the members of the government carrying out an outrageously dilettious work, but from the taxes of all of us. The absurd situation raises several questions. We should know whether Vladimir Putin is in charge of Viktor Orbán, or if there is enough left of Hungarian sovereignty that the Prime Minister can decide who and under what conditions he will be indebted to Hungary. We would like to hear who is responsible for the fact that you have concluded a loan agreement with Russia which is seemingly inexorable and which is not in the interests of the country. And we should know whether the Hungarian taxpayers will act in the same way as the rest of the tax pact. So if, based on the Russian and Belarusian examples, it is proven that the reactor planned by Rosatom in Hungary is not suitable for permanent and safe operation, will it be impossible to terminate the investment contract, just as we are now stuck in the originally defective loan agreement? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where's the applause?]]
u2017-05-02-105	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to ask Minister János Lázár for the answer. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-05-02-106	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, First of all, I'd like to respond to the few sentences that are unworthy, I think, of your professional past and perhaps of the performance you've put on the table so far. And I don't think it's gonna bring us any closer to understanding the matter or serving the country's interests. Of course, the Hungarian government serves Hungary's interests every step of the way, and I can even say that the Government of Hungary, Fidesz and KDNP have done the most in the last 30 years to strengthen and regain the sovereignty of Hungary. Nothing is binding us towards Russia, nothing can be more important than the representation of the Hungarian interest. In accordance with our oath, our conscience and Parliament's decision to ratify the international treaty, we have developed a contractual arrangement that best serves the sovereignty of the country. We have discussed many times before, of course you do not accept this item, that the most important issue in energy matters is that we do not have to import energy, we can produce electricity ourselves. Up to 50 percent, the nuclear power plant, up to 50 percent, needs green energy. The question is funding. We made an agreement proposal to the Parliament's table, which was adopted by a large majority in 2014, after the elections. It's a 30-year credit line. Hungary - and this is the most important one, and this guarantees the preservation of our sovereignty - has, of course, the possibility of early repayment in terms of the entire framework and the credit received. On 28 April, with effect from 30 April, the Russian credit line was opened, and now there is no obstacle to the financial implementation of the investment. However, given that the financial conditions have changed significantly in favour of Hungary since the conclusion of the contract, the country has performed well, and in recognition of this, we have examined the possibility of financing the investment elsewhere. [[15.50]] The first option is that the budget will finance it itself in the coming years without drawing any credit. The second option is to call off the loan, but immediately cancel the loan, in Hungarian the Russian loan will be replaced within 60 days by a Hungarian loan or credit for an international consortium, which is at a more favourable interest rate. However, it is quite certain that, at the moment, the conditions for Hungary to receive a loan with a similar or better interest rate for 30 years do not exist, so the Government Debt Management Centre will regularly review what is most optimal for Hungary. His sentence that we do not know about finance, I can confirm that we are not really dealers and do not do business, so we listen to the financial advisors of the Rothschild Group with 300 years of experience in financing the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, who made it clear that Hungary's financing solution is the most optimal solution for the country. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-02-107	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck if she will accept the ministerial answer. Here you go.
u2017-05-02-108	No, I can't accept the answer. Minister, I think you know as well as we do that funding is one of the most critical and problematic points of the Paks investment. So that includes borrowing. They could have learned from the Hungarian people. The Hungarian people knew what it was like to be in debt in foreign currency. Many of the Hungarian people have been ruined by taking on foreign exchange loans, and then double the foreign exchange rate change, or some pay back almost three times their credit. Technically, the government, as the country's large household, will make the same mistake if it has done so. For 30 years, it is impossible to see how foreign exchange rates will change. In this way, just like many families in Hungary, the country can also fail. This loan agreement couldn't have been concluded like this.
u2017-05-02-109	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Congresswoman began her one-minute rejoinder to refuse to accept the Minister's reply, so I respectfully ask the Parliament whether she accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the ministerial response by 112 yeses, 29 no against, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Representative Sándor Font, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture: "Is our GMO regulation loose, as the opposition claims? It's an address. Congressman Font has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-02-110	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, The opposition is constantly attacking the government on our legislation on GMOs and products of their use. According to some parties, our regulation is too strict, according to others - and at the moment they are the louder - too mild. Looks like they're calling out for a regulation amendment. The fact is that the regulatory amendment concerning the FM Regulation 61/2016 on GMO-free labelling really alleviates the extremely strict rules so far. So far, in the case of feed that can be labelled as GMO-free in Hungary, the GMO content that can be introduced by impurities or cannot be eliminated by technological processes could be 0.1 per cent, i.e. 1 per thousand. If economic considerations are taken into account, this limit is untenable in practice, for example in the production of compound feed, the proportion of potential impurities here is often higher than 0,1 per cent with the most sophisticated storage and blending processes. The correction of the regulatory framework for feed is therefore a reasonable step, but can be achieved without any major change in the limit value. The opposition is talking about misleading consumers, but their statements and statements contain little facts or figures, and their main aim is to raise the alarm. In my view, such hysteria campaigns, which are clearly aimed at discrediting the government, can be described as misleading. Unfortunately, opposition parties have recently put this genre to the top instead of having a sound professional debate or making a professional decision, for example, in the decisions of the legislative proposals. In order to ensure that credible information on a professional basis continues to be heard between the walls of this House, I therefore ask Minister: what is the exact background of the amendment of the rules on GMO-free labelling? Are the changes in food safety and GMOs truly a step back? Has the government's attitude changed with regard to the domestic cultivation, use and distribution of genetically modified organisms? And finally, what do you think of the opposition's attitude on this subject? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-02-111	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Sándor Fazekas. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-05-02-112	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for raising this important question. First of all, I would like to make it clear that the amendment of the limit value applies only to feed and not to food. The GMO-free marking shall continue to apply only if the product in question is GMO-free, i.e. the GMO content in that product does not exceed the detection limit of 0,1 per cent. It is regrettable that the opposition and certain media organisations are alarming the public by their misinformation-based rumors. The amendment to the feed limit became necessary as a result of the adoption of the GMO-free labelling standard for the countries of the Danube region. If our regulation is stricter, we will put at a disadvantage those domestic producers who produce GMO-free foods in Hungary. They would thus unduly put foreign GMO-free producers whose products would gain greater scope in the domestic food market. With the amendment, we encourage Hungarian actors to be certified in the Hungarian system and not in the Austrian or German system. It is important that we set realistic and achievable conditions and encourage domestic producers to join the GMO-free product chain. Otherwise, we have no chance of replacing feed containing South American genetically modified soya. The changes do not represent a step backwards in the field of food safety or GMO exemption, as if a feed producer does not take the appropriate steps to avoid contamination or is aware that his product is contaminated with GMOs, he cannot continue to use it in GMO-free production. That has been the case, and it will remain so in the future. Hungary has been pursuing a GMO-free policy for many years, and we firmly believe that this is the right path for the country's future and for people's health. The government is constantly paying particular attention to GMO issues in order to fulfil our obligation under the Fundamental Law and to strive to ensure that agriculture in the country is free from GMOs, often even against pressure from the GMO lobby. I believe that the regulation laying the foundations for the GMO-free food chain is another significant step towards implementing the GMO-free agricultural strategy. The next step in this process is the registration of GMO-free labelling as a trademark by the Ministry of Agriculture, with many benefits for both consumers and producers. Please accept my reply. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-02-113	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Mr Font Sándor if he will accept the Minister's reply. Here you go.
u2017-05-02-114	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I accept your answer. Those who have doubts about the position of the Hungarian government and Fidesz in this matter, I would like to draw their attention and remind them that in autumn 2006, we initiated a GMO debate day in the Parliament's meeting room in Felsőház as opposition parties. That debate allowed farmers, interest representatives, opponents and supporters to express their views. But at that time there was a very serious debate before Parliament about the co-existence law, the co-existence law, and on the day of the debate, under the pressure of the then Minister József Gráf announced that, contrary to the government's original intention, he agreed with us, he announced the ban on cultivation then, and we voted later. We've been taking it this way ever since, and now for the ten-year anniversary of our conference. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In two weeks' time, we will also hold a conference on GMOs. Thank you for your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.00]]
u2017-05-02-115	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, Congressman has accepted the Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Korózs, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, Why does the government give up on sick, elderly people? No treatment for cancer patients over the age of 75? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor, please.
u2017-05-02-116	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is certainly well known to you that today about 80,000 people are diagnosed with various cancers each year in Hungary, and unfortunately, some 30,000 of the 80,000 people are unfortunately dying. Unfortunately, Hungary is at the forefront of lung cancer and colon cancer in the European Union. I think these are terrible data. As a result, I have studied European statistical surveys myself, and it turns out that if a healthy person over 75 years of age is given appropriate therapy, say in relation to a disease and regains his health, he can expect another 15.7 years, and if an 80-year-old person spends 80 years in health, he can expect another 8.5 years. As a result, the wallet and the National Health Insurance Fund Manager, named OEP, were asked on behalf of the portfolio, according to which he replied that the reception process for these products was ongoing. It is all the more unacceptable for professionals to believe that it is ethically unacceptable for the minister's response or the manager's response to suggest that they should distinguish between patients and patients by age. In this procedure, patients in need can only have access to medicines in the context of individual fairness - I stress that these are people over 75 years of age - but it turns out that in individual equity they are considering aspects that lead back to the patient's age. So even though it is said that the National Health Insurance Fund Manager cannot decide on a request for fairness based on age, it is ultimately not possible for elderly sick people to receive certain drugs because their group has not been tested. According to specialists, it is not typical for other therapies to test future drugs in retired patients, and new therapies are significantly more gentle than classical procedures. According to oncologists, the age procedure is ethically unacceptable without specific professional reasons. Unfortunately, whether it is cancer or other diseases, patient rights representatives have often informed me that discrimination affecting the elderly is common. As a result, I ask why the government is giving up sick elderly people, and I ask why cancer patients are not granted the necessary procedure regardless of their age; and why a person has paid a contribution if he can no longer receive the same care over a certain age as a younger patient. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-02-117	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Bence Rétvári answers the interpellation question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-02-118	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think it is a well-known fact for everyone that cancers are becoming more and more difficult every year, a burden, a threat for everyone, for families, for communities, obviously for the patient and for the whole state, for society as a whole, which is why we spend more every year on treating cancers. It is now 180 billion forints, which we spend on this, that is more than one and a half times the amount in 2010. We now spend 60 percent more on treating cancer patients than it could be spent in 2010. Everyone also knows that prevention is also the most important in these areas. Whether in the case of lung cancer, I do not think I need to list our various measures to prevent public health or smoking, but Mr President mentioned that it is indeed the second most common tumor, where we intend to deal with colon and rectal screenings. This is first in a county, then in three counties, and then from now on in the entire country, and more than 51 percent of the general practitioners have applied for it, and will filter out their patients. We hope that this will prevent an average of 5,000 diseases per year, according to our calculations, if this colon and rectal screening is achieved. At the same time, the article that you probably used as a basis for your speech - it was published in 168 hours - is very much wrong, I say rather that it contains one-sided reasoning, but it can also be called wrong or distorting. There is no evidence that OEP or NEAK will determine these decisions on the basis of age, nor has it been demonstrated by the manufacturer that a complete and permanent cure of lung cancer would result from the preparation to which you referred. It is a 1993 Ministerial Decree on Social Welfare that deals with this issue, in which 15 new high-value active substances were announced on 1 November 2016, and they were added to the list of therapeutic products, and then OEP, NEAK, started to carry out public procurement. The public procurement procedure was carried out on the basis of which 6 medicinal products of the 15 new active substances concerned, which had been funded on 1 November 2016, will be made available to patients free of charge from 1 February 2017, with an additional 8 products for which no valid offers have been received, without prior fairness and without administrative burden from 1 April 2017. Therefore, in this fairness procedure, patients over 75 years of age have received this procedure, this medicine, in several medically justified cases. However, this always depends on the individual responsibility, decision and professional position of the treating physician, his decision, his responsibility to consider this justified or not justified over 75 years of age, but the same criteria over and under 75 years of age. However, allow me to quote the Summary of Product Characteristics of the product, which reads literally as follows:. The amount of data from patients aged 75 years or older is too limited to draw conclusions for this population. So there is not enough evidence or insufficient number of healings, there is not enough tried therapy to be able to be absolutely certain of the product quoted in this article. So, statistically, clinically, it has not been proven that this medicine is fully capable of healing, so I say that it is the responsibility of the treating physician to do so. But regardless, I told you, there were positive decisions for people over 75 years of age, and from this surplus we use to treat cancer patients, the NEAK could cover them. However, I would add, honourable Member, that we should remember your time when you would not only have paid off the drugs, but even the hospital stay. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-02-119	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr Lajos Korózs if he will accept the Secretary of State's reply. Here you go.
u2017-05-02-120	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, I cannot accept your answer. It didn't really calm me down, because patient rights representatives complain almost weekly and say that they do discriminate against older people by age, including oncological treatments. I just want to remind this House that it has not yet been a year since they were thinking about bringing legislation to the Parliament where terminal cancer patients could not even have received painkillers. As a result, I believe you've started testing the medications involved in therapeutic procedures, but I don't think it rattles if the wind doesn't blow. I don't accept your answer.
u2017-05-02-121	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 34 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, It's 16 hours 9 minutes, the interpellation period is over, and now it's time for immediate questioning. [[Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, Congressman Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "Why is Fidesz serving foreign power?" It's an address. Mr. Prime Minister has appointed Mr. János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or waits for the Prime Minister to be present in Parliament's meeting room with the answer. [[16.10]]
u2017-05-02-122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I've waited three weeks, I can take this one week now. So I must apologise, Minister, that you are here and you cannot answer these questions. [[John Lázár: I understand.]] The Minister will hear the Prime Minister's reply. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-02-123	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Gábor Vona... [[Noise, public address: No, no.]] Sorry, sorry, sure. We're moving on, yeah. Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP representative [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Now they're so mushy. It's hard to see the difference.]] He wishes to ask the President of the National Bank of Hungary an immediate question with a title 3 "Friends, Friends and Others." Congressman Gergely Bárándy has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-02-124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, It's not the first time we've talked about your current or, who knows, your ex-girlfriend's, but anyway, it's a public-money small-time stash. Since Zita Vajda's yoga teacher made hundreds of thousands of HUF a month as an employee of the PAGEO Foundation of the Hungarian National Bank, I asked the Foundation what studies she wrote for this salary and what results she could produce. The answer was surprising. I quote the full answer literally. Zita Vajda is a senior researcher at the PAGEO Research Institute, which directly coordinates the work of research researchers in India and tends to the appearances on the subject. According to this, the articles and studies previously sent to you were also published or published as a result of your work at the research institute. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. According to the answer, Zita Vajda is not simply a researcher, but a senior researcher, i.e. a senior researcher, who provides other researchers with professional advice and instructions, let's say when writing studies such as Who can use India's nuclear agreement with Japan? or the evolution of India's relationship with Pakistan, or the future of the Indian elephant - the Tata group, to mention three from the letter of the director of the foundation. If you search the name of Zita Vajda in the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, or, let's say, in the searchable database of the contents of the Hungarian journals, the number of hits is zero, zero. Please tell us, Mr President, what skills and qualifications Zita Vajda has, what scientific history makes her capable of coordinating their work as senior researchers, i.e. as chiefs of other researchers, because we are aware of her yoga education. I'd like to ask you what to coordinate in writing a study. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Finally, how studies, let's say about the Indian elephant, are used by the central bank in shaping its monetary policy. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-02-125	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to President György Matolcsy, whom I salute. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2017-05-02-126	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I have to find out with a broken heart that you haven't asked me where I live. [[Defiance, public announcements from the ranks of the MSZP, including Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I will. Dóra Dúró: He asked who with.]] I have to say this with some sadness because you've been asking false questions using taxpayers' money and time for months. This, of course, is not a unique phenomenon in your party. [[Noise, constant interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[Noise, constant interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] After all, your former leader has determined that from morning to noon, from noon to night, obviously even at dawn and during lunch. (Noise, continuous interruptions from the lines of the MSZP. ) You continued to do so, but in fact you raised it to new levels, as you bluffed, lied, lied about your question. There are times when people lie when they ask questions. Well, that's you, Congressman. [[Noise, uppour, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] After all, you previously claimed that Tamás Szemerey, my first cousin, received 600 million forints from the Hungarian state, because he is the owner of vs.hu. That wasn't true for a moment. You didn't apologize to Tamás Szemerey, the foundation or anyone else. Then you claimed that the President of the National Bank of Hungary lives in the home of the President of the Banking Association. Turns out that's not true, what we knew, of course. That's what the Unicredit study found. I therefore call on you, Congressman, to apologize to, among other things, the centre of Unicredit in Milan, its subsidiary in Budapest, the Hungarian National Bank. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP, including: What about the woman?]] From me and Mihály Patai, by the way. And if you do not acknowledge the importance of India, I have listened to it with great pain. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Applause and interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP: Bravo!]]
u2017-05-02-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Gergely Bárándy. Here you go.
u2017-05-02-128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, damn it, he's apologizing. Your answers, to be more precise, confirmed by the lack of answers from the PAGEO Foundation, which I have already drawn as a conclusion, namely that you or your current lover have certainly not done any meaningful work at the Foundation - because you have not said a word about it - and therefore you have brought home more money each month than, say, a university professor of the department of India, who does not, by the way, understand this subject. You know, Mr President, the lack of reply does not affect this; if that is the case, it is not simply immoral, it is a crime. It's called unfaithful treatment. That's why it's important that, if you know, you dissemble the doubts raised in my questions once again, because otherwise, we're dealing with the suspicion that there's been a crime. And so that you have no sense of absence, Mr. President, you can tell me if you paid rent. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Mihály Patai, CEO of Unicredit, for the use of the apartment? [[Delight and applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-05-02-129	Thank you very much. President György Matolcsy is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2017-05-02-130	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, My sadness, if I may, has deepened a little. 'Cause you're still talking about bluffs, lies and lies in question. [[Uproar, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP, including Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Cá.]] After all, the young lady in question has two degrees and four exams. And once again, if you do not know the role of India in XXI. Unfortunately, it is not only your problem, but also Hungary's problem. But let us return to the point of apologizing, and once again I call on Mihály Patai, the bank, the Banking Association and the Hungarian National Bank, if you think so, on my behalf, because you have lied so long in Hungary in Parliament for which you should be sorry. Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Answer me once!]]
u2017-05-02-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gábor Vona, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "The Prime Minister cannot be a national security risk. It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or waits for the Prime Minister to give the answer in person.
u2017-05-02-132	Mr President, I'd like to wait for Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[Happy István's intervention.]]
u2017-05-02-133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, the representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: after the hybrid's war and many additional actions, will he undertake a real national freedom fight with Brussels? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or waits for the Prime Minister to give you the answer in person.
u2017-05-02-134	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to wait for Prime Minister with my question.
u2017-05-02-135	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Member and the House that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congressman György Szilágyi, the representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or asks the Prime Minister for his answer in person.
u2017-05-02-136	[[Happy in the eyes of István:]] I'm not happy, so I'll wait for Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[16.20]]
u2017-05-02-137	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. How will the fight of freedom be made? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or asks the Prime Minister for his answer in person.
u2017-05-02-138	I accept the identity of the responder.
u2017-05-02-139	He'll take it. Honourable Congressman, You have the floor, please.
u2017-05-02-140	Mr President, Dear House, We've had a long government campaign of one-and-a-half years, where the government wanted to stop Brussels, where 3.3 million people were consulted in a referendum that they couldn't make invalid. on a socially clear issue, then, in basically 24 hours, the same government capitulated, fell to its knees in Brussels, humbled on several issues, and the end of the story is that migrants between the ages of 14 and 18 are essentially allowed to transport, install and conduct procedures here in Hungary. Antal Rogán's announcement and statement were quite clear on this issue. In itself, it is outrageous that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán does not come in on a question concerning Hungary's sovereignty and fate at such a depth, and does not give information before the agenda, and does not dare to look into the eyes of those who raise legitimate questions. And in order to prevent government lying, many of your wage commentaries say, otherwise, the same copy-paste comments have appeared in many places that have already allowed migrants between 14-18, so there has been no change, and even the government wants to tighten up the DNA test. Following this vile lie, and note that the DNA tests will also be financed by Hungarian taxpayers, we must note that Jobbik made it possible - through our vote to establish a legal border closure - to tighten up the pressure that migrants between 14 and 18 years of age could not be admitted to Hungary. He wants this tighten-up, one of his own proposals, to be wiped out by the Fidesz-KDNP on his knees at Brussels pressure, and this team on their knees will also be able to get it on giant posters. We must therefore say, Minister, that it calls for an answer on how migrants can enter Hungary, who have protested the same thing in the rhetoric space for a year and a half. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-02-141	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, Mr János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-05-02-142	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, I believe that the state of immigration in Hungary is best demonstrated by the very simple fact that, at the moment, there are virtually no immigrants present in Hungary, within the territory of the country. With this Hungary... [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] I have listened, Congressman, and I ask you to help me find a hearing with you and the faction. So I just want to say that there are hardly any countries in Europe where there are so few immigrants, or there are no immigrants at all, as we do not have. Last week, I can give you last Thursday's data. A few hundred immigrants were still on the territory of the country, who had not yet been returned to the designated transit zone by the police. I'd like to know what it would be, besides talking, that would be the solution in your opinion. I think that since September 2015, the relevant border sections have been completely closed, eight thousand police and soldiers have been deployed, which is a significant part of the Hungarian armed and police capabilities, we have spent 250 billion forints of the citizens' money, we have built a two-line fence, we have hermetically closed the Hungarian border. In Hungary, illegal immigrants moving freely under international law have been stopped and forced to stay in the transit zone. For this reason, Hungary is constantly being exterminated in the European Parliament, the European Council, Fidesz and KDNP are being excluded from the European People's Party and there are ongoing attempts to see how much we respect European values. Compared to that, you will stand up and ask that question. I would like to ask you: do you think that 30 or 40 minors are a threat to Hungary, to Hungarian society? In a country where 10 percent of the population are at a cumulative disadvantage, where we deal with the problems of 800 thousand to 1 million people, I believe it is a fundamental ethical issue that we provide asylum and immunity to unaccompanied minors. It is the duty of every honest man who is a Christian to give excuses to unaccompanied minors. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-02-143	Dear Parliament, A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpát. Here you go.
u2017-05-02-144	Mr. Secretary. I understand your inconvenient situation. Antal Rogán should be sitting there. But do you understand what you're saying? 30-40 planted non-juveniles, don't slide to underage Hungary? This opens the gate to a flood that creates an uncontrollable situation. The fact is, therefore, that you have allowed rich migrants in the form of settlement bonds for good money, Jobbik has prevented this, and you now want to bring in free migrants who did not have the money for this. The Jobbik will cross the line on the other hand. So you have a rich migrant, and now the poor one's free. Jobbik says he's neither rich nor poor. We ask you to do one thing, and answer this, please: the legal border closure, which was agreed here on 7 March, would you like to maintain it for the 14-18s, or would you like to commit treason at Brussels pressure? That's the question. Are the migrants between 14-18 allowed in here or not? Yes, no question, thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-02-145	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-05-02-146	Honourable Congressman. Obviously, we must account for our work to the voters in the spring of next year. And there will be a very simple question that I can ask you now: is there one of you who lives in a place where there is only one immigrant? I do not think that there is a member of the Hungarian Parliament who lives in a place or represents voters where there is only one immigrant. We have two fellow Members from Körmend and Kiskunhalas, who are still affected by this problem and who have difficulties living together, but much less than three months ago, because on 28 March the border closure was introduced and the number of people who are staying in Hungary is being continuously reduced. From a fundamental Christian-Christian point of view, I regard it as a course to be followed, that when an unaccompanied minor arrives at the border of the country - an unaccompanied minor! - it's got to be sheltered. Last year they were housed on Photon, 37 people needed care. So you're not a middle party, you're a party to heartlessness and inhumanity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-02-147	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Bernadett Szél, the representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: When does the government start to deal with reality? It's an address. Prime Minister János Lázár appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck whether, on behalf of the two of you, she accepts the person of the responder or waits for the Prime Minister to be present at the Parliament to receive his answer personally. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-05-02-148	With all due respect, we'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2017-05-02-149	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Member and the Head of the Group that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Bernadett Szél and Erzsébet Schmuck and Ákos Hadházy, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what else does the government think of instead of a referendum? It's an address. Prime Minister János Lázár appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask Madam Group leader whether she accepts the person of the responding party or waits for the answer to be heard personally from Prime Minister.
u2017-05-02-150	Thank you, I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2017-05-02-151	Thank you very much. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Head of Group Bernadett Wind, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question: what is the next confused and secret nuclear pact about? It's an address. Minister István Mikola has appointed Minister of State to respond to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Head of the Group whether she accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Minister for the answer in person.
u2017-05-02-152	I have to accept it because the situation is so urgent that we need to come clean as soon as possible.
u2017-05-02-153	Thank you very much. Then it's up to the Head of the Group. Here you go. [[16.30]]
u2017-05-02-154	Dear Secretary of State, I was prepared by Minister to honor the Hungarian Parliament in such a difficult time to answer the questions. I really see that those who want to study Hungarian foreign policy are in a situation where they need to obtain information about a lot of places in order to be aware. We had to hear from the Russian press that Minister Szijjártó, with Lavrov's colleague, was on his way to assure Comrade Putin that the Hungarian government is a loyal ally of the Kremlin. And then we basically had to find out from the Tehran Times that you started a bizarre nuclear program with Iran. Here practically a budding nuclear energy cooperation was launched between Hungary, the Hungarian government and Tehran. Now, I would like to note in parentheses that there is a country that has entered into an agreement on the development of two reactors to the Bushehri nuclear power plant in December 15 and, by the way, has also offered a generous interstate loan. This is, of course, Russia, which is trying to help Iran's nuclear plans. This is very familiar to us, because Hungary is in a very similar situation, Putin applied in the same way here in Hungary, and the Hungarian government was available to Vladimir Putin with a similar willingness as Iran to the Russians. Now, there's also a Russian-Iranian-Hungarian nuclear triangle. In fact, you can only guess exactly why Zsolt Semjén was put on the plane and why he was sent to Tehran. What we see is that you want to deal with some kind of mini reactors, if we understand correctly, in the direction of Africa and Asia. I would like to learn from you why Zsolt Semjén was sent to Tehran, why NATO-fed Hungary is concluding a nuclear cooperation agreement with Iran almost at the same time that the new US Foreign Minister, I quote, called Iran's nuclear ambitions a serious risk to international peace and security. Why does Hungary cooperate with Iran in the field of nuclear energy at all? Did the political leadership in Moscow give them any kind of Ukaza? Or are you doing this out of self-esteem? And I would also like to know whether or not a HUF 26 billion credit line will be provided for this program. Thank you for your reply. [[Erzsébet Schmuck applauds.]]
u2017-05-02-155	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. István Mikola, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-02-156	Mr President, Ladies and Gentlemen, I'm glad you found out what this was about, because I didn't know when I came here what this secret nuclear pact was. But now I understand what this is about. I don't see a secret nuclear device, I gotta tell you. I don't know why Zsolt Semyen traveled to Tehran, I'm sure it's not because of what I'm about to say in my answer. I don't know anything about this Soviet, conspirative, web-woven background. I know that we've had educational cooperation with Iran for years. Hungary has a globally recognised knowledge based capital and knowledge capital in the peaceful use of nuclear energy. We can operate with this knowledge capital when we try to use this modern technology and technology integrated into global value chains in different places, education, research and development cooperation and at all using the latest technology systems in practice, namely our knowledge capital. It is clear that this is a peaceful use of nuclear energy. Hungary has 30 years of experience in the use and operation of peaceful nuclear energy and has 50 years of education and research and development experience. We want to make use of this, I can say very simply, by selling it on the world market. I would like to say that 2017. CHAPTER IV On the 8th, we signed a Memorandum of Cooperation with Iran, peaceful use, education, research and development. We have also informed the International Atomic Energy Agency, the European External Action Service and the European Commission. This step is fully in line with the Iranian nuclear programme agreement, signed by five members of the UN Security Council and Iran, signed by the six on 14 July 2015. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-02-157	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It's a one-minute rejoinder for the woman in charge of the faction.
u2017-05-02-158	Daragoi is a Gaspagyin minister - I would say if we weren't here and not at this time, and of course if you were a minister. The thing is, I'm a little sorry, Mr. Secretary, that you can't give me an answer to this whole question to clarify this situation. Now it's getting darker and darker. Look, why did Zsolt Semjén get on the plane in case your wallet was responsible for all this cooperation? How does the cobbler get on the table or what they say, the shoes on the table, as they say? I'll leave the cobbler alone now, but how does Zsolt Semyen get into Iran? Be kind and clear this question for me, because it's kind of foggy for me at the moment. The other one. I don't know if you've been watching, the Tehran newspaper has reported that they've made an international collaboration and received 26 billion forints from you. Did you or did you not get 26 billion for these mini reactors? I still don't understand why this agreement had to be concluded with Iran. Why don't you try using your 30-50-year experience with one of those countries? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Which, let's say, isn't under international fame such as Iran in relation to nuclear energy? I'm asking you to release this letter of intent as soon as possible. Put it up here on the table, show it up. Maybe you won't be shut down like the opposition if you show me this letter of intent that we're talking about. Here...
u2017-05-02-159	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. Twice you've exceeded your time frame by 20 seconds. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State.
u2017-05-02-160	Congresswoman, with all due respect, I must say that you see horrors. No pacts, no secret agreements. What I have said is that two completely public agreements on which we have notified the European authorities have been notified to the European Commission, have been taken into account. It's an agreement for research, development, education and the transfer of acquired experience. Iran's happy about it, we're happy about it. I didn't have time to answer that earlier, and as far as the various banking backgrounds are concerned, you may think that Eximbank has actually opened a framework of EUR 80-83 million, but it has done so in the framework of Hungarian-Iranian economic cooperation within the framework of the Joint Economic Committees. We also want to use these resources to foster economic and trade relations between the two countries. This is not part of the nuclear agreement that forms the subject here. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-02-161	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Attila Petneházy, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. May gold rain, or where did László Botka get the mysterious multimillion-dollar luxury items? It's an address. Minister Pál Völner has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[Petnehazy Attila indicates yes.]] Mr. Congressman, with his meta-communication tool, has indicated his acceptance of Mr. Pál Völner as a minister of state. Congressman Attila Petneházy has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-02-162	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, If I were to use an illustration tool now - which, of course, I cannot do, which all my fellow Members are aware of - I would raise a sign and it would say that László Botka failed. Once again, a left-wing politician failed in the area of credibility. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Why am I not surprised to say this? That's probably how I socialized - probably them too. But let's stick to the present. Recently, László Botka did not indicate in his declaration of property some of the assets he actually owns. Now, given the daily use of luxury goods, watches, and luxury cars, this must not have escaped your attention. Then we can also say that he may be impervious to his declaration of property. In fact, we could say that this is not surprising, referring to what a politician named Gyurcsány did in the morning, evening and noon. It seems that what he's put down now continues with László Botka, just as we've been getting used to. László Botka was visiting Nyíregyháza on the weekend, where he took on the role of the child of the poor people, and he liked it this way. In fact, it's a rich man. You could ask me if I was researching in the years of my city council rep, right, I remember that as mayors, there are the same consequences of a false declaration of assets as we are, simple Members? Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[16.40]]
u2017-05-02-163	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Nicely done, Mr. Secretary of State.]]
u2017-05-02-164	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, [[Moraj, interrogations in the benches of the MSZP, including, "I'm ashamed of myself!" The president's ringing the bell.]] We all know the latest slogans of the Socialist Party: let us do justice, let the rich pay! Obviously, this is where Mr. Botka's campaign fits into. I was thinking about Gábor Simon's hunger procession when I read these news about how different reality is from those proclaimed, exalted ideas that they say. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Lőrinc Mészáros? Andy Vajna? Erik Bánki? Intercoms in the benches of the MSZP.]] But to mention the facts: László Botka as mayor [[Noise in the benches of MSZP and Jobbik. The president's ringing the bell.]] the law on local authorities requires you to provide a declaration of assets, under which you must indicate the six-month amount of the basic salary per item or set of other assets of value exceeding HUF 231 thousand in accordance with the law on public service at all times. So if you really had a luxury cart over 20 million forints, you should have written in it anyway. I looked at it, it wasn't in it, really. [[Noise in the benches of MSZP. Anita Beringes: And the room of Antal Rogán?]] But the price of Rolex watches, as you can see in Internet forums, is well above that amount. This obligation shall be exercised by the Committee examining the declaration of assets [[Constant interruptions in the benches of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] Keeps records and checks. You obviously have the opportunity to examine this issue in Szeged now, because these issues can undermine the public confidence needed to carry out the task. [[Nándor Gúr: And 11 million Butchers per hour?]] Accordingly, conflicts of interest issues may be identified by the Committee. I wish them good work for this, and for the voters to finally see clearly between the Socialist Party campaign and the luxuries of socialist leaders. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Anita Beringes: Butcher, Mengyi!]]
u2017-05-02-165	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Attila Petneházy. Here you go.
u2017-05-02-166	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. In other ways, let me approach the whole question. The poster campaign launched by Mr Botka has destroyed a lot on public taste and public mood. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Oh, Congressman!]] in public statements, and this is now well-meaning among the benches of the MSZP, who can't control themselves anymore. [[Anita Bering: It is very difficult to wear that you are lying!]] But I think we, politicians, also have a responsibility in this regard. But if I approach from somewhere else, this particular visit to Biryregyháza was a rebuttal [[Continuous noise in the benches of opposition parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Because the Nyíregyházas - the pro-government or the opposition observer - could listen silently to Mr. Botka, and could silently accompany the Botka believers, and could silently wait for people to get on their own buses and go home to Nyíregyháza, each to their own place of residence at the Nyíregyháza event. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-02-167	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Nicely done, Mr. Secretary of State.]]
u2017-05-02-168	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, László Botka no longer wears these classes, so the press and these suggestions have an educational effect. Or, if you think about it, there might be one more explanation: he wasn't wearing Rolex watches, he was wearing fakes. That wouldn't be surprising anyway, because then it would be synchronized with the text they advertise and what politicians carry on their arms. [[Interviews in the benches of MSZP and Jobbik.]] But this still does not explain, of course, the luxuries that we have been anxious to hear about for weeks, to see him appear in the declaration of assets, or to what title he uses, and why he is the one who travels with him and modestly forgets about his wealth. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Doesn't that help you sleep, Secretary of State? Can you sleep with a butcher?]] Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-02-169	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member László Szászfalvi, representative of the KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What is expected in the Erzsébet camps this year? It's an address. [[Dr. István Józsa: The best possible!]] Congressman Józsa, when you ask me an immediate question, I will give you the floor. Now I can only warn you! [[Noise, interruptions in the benches of MSZP.]] The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi nods.]] The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman László Szászfalvi has the floor.
u2017-05-02-170	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The Fidesz-KDNP government developed a very beautiful and traditional form of social care when it launched the camping program of children in need, the Erzsébet camps. This is Hungary's largest programme of this kind, where the organizers have been hosting Hungarian children in need in the Hungarian and the Carpathian Basin to the highest public satisfaction at Lake Balaton for years, or supporting the day-care camps in their homes. The Erzsébet camps, which perform public tasks, provide a meaningful holiday for more and more schoolchildren with minimal camping costs, and in recent years children with special educational needs with disabilities or congenital diseases could camp together. Here, various programs included sports, lifestyle, culture, arts, science and culture, as well as traditional activities, as well as experiences to explore. Last year, in addition to the Zánka and Fonyódliget camps, more than ever, there were 740 daycare camps at 400 locations nationwide, showing the success of this unselfish program. This could continue this year, as the government committed itself to this form of social assistance in the long term, with some 90 thousand children and more than 400 thousand children since 2012 last year. Dear Secretary of State, In line with the fundamental policy of the Christian Democratic People's Party, thanks to the decisions made over the past period, we can support more and more poor families and needy people, and thanks to the government, more and more children can get not only warm food and decent living conditions, but also meaningful recreation. [[In the notary seat, Dezső Believing is replaced by Loránt Hegedűs.]] Therefore, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what camps can be applied for this year, when to apply for them, whether there will be news [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the government's support for this [[The president will turn off László Szászfalvi's microphone.]] and what improvements it intends to make.
u2017-05-02-171	Thank you, Congressman. Two minutes to question time. [[Nándor Gúr: 2.25! Noise in the benches of MSZP.]] Congressman Nándor Gur! You're the notary of the Parliament. Don't act like a child, and I'm asking you not to judge me, because then I'll take the opportunity under the house rules. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] I ask former President Attila Mesterházy to try to influence the notary to behave in accordance with the notary of the Parliament. [[Dr. István Apáti: What kind of thing is this? Guard! Noise and interruptions in the benches of Jobbik and MSZP. Dr. István Apáti: Oh, my gosh!]] We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-05-02-172	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As you have mentioned, over the past few years, 400 thousand children have been camped at highly preferential rates in the Erzsébet camps. A large part of these costs were covered by the government from the money that some French companies had exported from the country from the result of the distribution of food tickets. But in recent years, we have also given increasing budget support. This year's budget will already spend 5.2 billion forints on the summer Erzsébet children's camps. In addition, there is a one-off amount among the government's decisions, a HUF 26 billion amount between 2017-19, since the camps are popular, there is always an extra sign-up, which is why we will double the capacity of the Erzsébet camps. In Zánkán and Fonyódliget, the texture of buildings, the dining rooms and the park will be completely renewed - with adventure parks and water adventure parks - community spaces will be renewed, whether sports or the theatre hall, and we hope that an even more high-quality and even higher-capacity camp in Zanka and Fonyódliget will be waiting for young people, not to accommodate 30, but 60 thousand young people. In addition, the daycare Erzsébet camps are, of course, extremely popular. Camping opportunities are coming up at a very high speed. In the two weeks following the opening of the camping surface, 15 thousand children were recorded and 543 institutions started their application within the system. The summer camps we talked about will be open until May 10th. We ask everyone to submit their application until then, but there are spring certified absences, autumn certified absences called daycare camps during spring and autumn holidays. We are expecting 100,000 children this year, and we expect them to arrive in groups of 20, so they will apply for applications, but of course we will pay special attention to Transcarpathian Hungarians again this year. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-02-173	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Szászfalvi.
u2017-05-02-174	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The opposition parties accuse the government of social insensitivity over and over again. [[Dr. László György Lukács: What about migrants between the ages of 14 and 18?]] I think that, in addition to the government's policy on family support, employment policy and the free food and free textbook program, the Elizabeth programme is a shining proof of the opposite. [[16.50]] During the governance of the left, the multik pockets were filled with billions of forints, and the Fidesz-KDNP government has spent the same resource on families and children in need for years. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: For example, the Butcher family!]] I think that's a snap response to the opposition's attack. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-02-175	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is for Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-02-176	I see opposition parties haven't been able to shed light on the excitement of deep-sea diving yet, but it's certain that if we find a Rolex watch abandoned by off-road tire tracks somewhere, then it's likely a sign that we're on a hot track if we're looking for László Botka, the PM's candidate for the MSZP. [[Complaining from the lines of the MSZP: Wow, it's beautiful!]] Seriously, there are a lot of thematic camps, brother camp, healing camp, adventure camps [[Lajos Korózs: No Yoga?]] , which serve both the active and meaningful summer recreation of young people, sometimes in the form of a craft camp, cultural programs, traditional programs, thematic sports programmes. Often the role models themselves arrive, artists, athletes, well-known personalities, and they hold a half-day session for young people. One of the most important things you have mentioned, Congressman, is recovery camps, which are experiential camps for children who are chronically ill or recovering from illness. We'll try to make other children enjoy them together, if possible. Here are children with special educational needs, children with disabilities, congenital heart and rheumatic [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] children with disease, children cured of cancer, deaf and hearing children. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-02-177	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Attila Mesterházy, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question. It's an address. Congressman Attila Mesterházy has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-02-178	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: Now let's shout! Let's be quiet.]] For the time being, I would not be asking Minister about how Szilárd Kiss could have become an agricultural diplomat. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] by failing a national security investigation. In fact, I don't even ask why Minister Sándor Fazekas defends Szilárd Kiss with such force, who, perhaps, is now a criminal, but I would like to ask Minister how I was in intensive correspondence with you and the Foreign Minister, the Ministry of the Interior, and he has given me some kind of conflicting answers, and I ask the Minister to resolve this. On 20 February 2017, I asked you a written question asking whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had been informed of the outcome of the due diligence. In 2011 Szilárd Kiss was screened by AH at the request of Minister Sándor Fazekas. The result was that he failed this national security investigation, and then he was transferred to Moscow by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as an agricultural diplomat. I was wondering if the Secretary of State had been informed about this, for example. You have replied to me that, in carrying out your duties, the Information Office cooperates with the Central Administrations and, in particular, with the AH and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That was a fairly general term, but I took it as a yes. I thought you had been informed, but Csaba Balogh, Minister of State at the State Department's Administration meeting on April 18th. He said they weren't informed in advance. The same information was confirmed by Péter Szijjártó, who said that the Ministry was unaware of the outcome of the national security check. Moreover, he added that the second screening of 2013 was carried out by Szilárd Kiss because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs initiated by the then Administrative Secretary of State to have such an investigation after receiving information and knowledge of national security control [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] its previous outcome. Help me, Minister, how can it happen that you do not inform the supervisory minister, either the IH or the AH, that you have to put a person at risk of national security out of Moscow as an agricultural diplomat. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-02-179	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-05-02-180	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, First of all, I would like to start by informing the Parliament that the laws of 11 and 13 in force at the time of the appointment made it possible that, if the Minister for the job had assumed his responsibility, he could appoint anyone, despite the negative result of the C-type security check. It was in my practice before. This is impossible since 2014, but before 2014 it was possible to initiate a type C screening, the screening revealed a risk to national security, and the responsibility for the national security risk could be assumed by the nominator or the appointing officer. Now, I can't judge that case here, but obviously, at the National Security Committee meeting, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] This is possible to discuss how many times this has taken place in the past period prior to 2014, and I could even raise a case from the time of the socialists' governance between 2002 and 2010. This meant, however, that those who did not receive the C-type screening or who had a negative result and did not receive the various documents could then have access to documents that were considered to be certain documents, such as state secrets, at no station, so they could not have access to them in Moscow. The person you asked was posted and posted, but what I can tell you is that there the Constitutional Protection Office and the Information Office have been constantly checking, the country's national security situation has not been affected by its activities, it has been under constant control, if I may say so, and it has not been able to access any classified documents. I also think that the result of this work is that the public service was later terminated with regard to Szilárd Kiss. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-02-181	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Attila Mesterházy. Here you go.
u2017-05-02-182	Minister, I didn't ask - I know the law, I know it was possible - I'm not asking whether the minister had the right or not. I ask you, if a person fails a national security investigation, the IH is supervised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the IH cooperates with the AH when conducting this investigation, and when there is a negative result, the IH does not inform its supervisory minister. If this were to happen to you, Minister, I don't think the head of the IH could stay there long if you were in a similar situation. If I put in parentheses that Sándor Fazekas is sitting next to Secretary of State János Martonyi at the government meeting and he doesn't even tell him that you, listen, want to send out a man who has failed this investigation, this is their internal case. But how these bodies do not inform the members of the Hungarian government is not exactly what I understand. It wasn't about state secrets, it was about this man dealing with visas outside, committing crimes, regardless of state secrets, it wasn't desirable at the Hungarian embassy in Moscow. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] His presence, which could have been prevented if the State Department had been informed of this. I would ask why the flow of information between one organ and the other does not work, which is, by the way, an old problem in government. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-02-183	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is given to Minister János Lázár. Here you go.
u2017-05-02-184	I'd like to underline a few things. One thing was that the visa business that was linked to Szilárd Kiss's activity was an EU visa, and the purpose of the visa seekers and participants in the business was not to enter Hungary, but to enter the territory of the European Union. This is a national security risk for Hungary [[Noise and interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] - sorry, I would like to ask for a moment of patience, my responsibility and the responsibility of the Constitutional Protection Office to protect Hungary's national security interests - this did not pose a risk to Hungary in the absence of entry, in the absence of a visa. My second point is that in the case of professional diplomats, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] the right of nomination and delegation shall lie with the Secretary of State. My third point is that both János Martonyi and Tibor Navracsics and Péter Szijjártó, when they were informed of these concerns, acted immediately in all three cases. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-02-185	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Apáti, representative of Jobbik, asks the Minister of Justice an immediate question: "Crime and impunity. It's an address. Minister Pál Völner has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Mr. Congressman tells me that he accepts it, so it is up to Mr. István Apáti, and then Mr.Pál Völner, State Secretary, will answer. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-02-186	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The following literal quote comes from the attempt to commit a homicide, in Hungarian, as a justification for a second-degree judgment of an attempt to murder:, By stabbing and cutting the victim's vital organs with tools, samurai swords, bush knife, axe, ironfork, pig-killing knife, several times, it is not yet possible to conclude that they wanted to kill him. - Literally quoted, Mr. Secretary of State, from a case related to a crime committed ten years ago and closed only last year. [[17.00]] Of the nine perpetrators, only three were sent to prison. In addition, Szamossályi, Nyírtura, Jászapáti are the sad stages of the problems of Hungarian-Gypsy coexistence, the difficulties of living together, and in many cases the inability to live together. But one of the unfortunate school examples is Tiszabezdéd, where in June 2015 three or four heavily drugged, cheap drug-induced gypsy youths without any reason, without prior discussion brutally murdered a respectable, two-child family father, a driver, just and only his head was hit and kicked. In the first instance, the Nyíregyháza Tribunal dared to pass the following judgment. One of the four perps was convicted, and the rest, it looks like he's getting away with it. In the first instance, he was sentenced to 6 years in prison for assault and not manslaughter of this horrific crime, which means, Mr. Secretary of State, that he will have to spend a total of 4 years in prison, given the rules of conditional release. Since you've already sat down two, it looks like you'll be out of here in two years. That's an acquittal. Do you think such judges who make such judgments are normal for their profession? What can be done about such outrageous and outrageous judgments? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-05-02-187	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-02-188	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, in criminal proceedings, the origin of the perpetrators cannot be examined by the court - I would like to say this in a prerogative. Everyone is subject to the same laws. And how the court applies the laws is not a competence of the government because of the separation of powers. We all remember that, after 2010, this government has made significant restrictions in the Criminal Code, whether it is the three strikes law or the imposition of penalties, to withdraw the framework of judicial discretion. So from the legislative side, what could be done, what could be done, I think both Parliament and the government did. However, in individual cases - although I am glad to hear that it is only a judgment of first instance, so if there is a problem, the second degree can make corrections - we all have to admit that neither the Hungarian Parliament nor the Hungarian government has any influence on the functioning of the courts nor can it be. On the basis of the internal rules of the courts and their system of advancement, a healthy case-law must be established, whereby the sense of justice of society and compliance with the law are met somewhere. I do not know the details of the case, and I would not be able to give an opinion on it anyway, although, if I understand correctly, there has been a question of this kind in the speech of the Member, but overall, I can only say that in these criminal matters, as far as the environment is concerned, both Parliament and your government are doing their job. I hope that in this case, too, there will be a judgment that really corresponds to the circumstances of the crime and to the facts of the criminal code. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-02-189	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman István Apáti. Here you go. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat will be replaced by Attila Gelencsér.]]
u2017-05-02-190	Dear Secretary of State, In my opinion, the President of the Curia is a well-intentioned man, he will have a lot of work to do, a lot of guidance to be given to him and the Mansion he led. At the same time, I must state that Jobbik's firm position is that because of its origin, no advantage or disadvantage can befall anyone; it cannot be an extenuating circumstance or an excuse, but this applies equally to everyone. However, we see that there is a serious error in the system, since the judge who has made the judgment of the literal quote to this day is still the President of a referee, honourable Secretary of State. And as for the verdicts of the tiszabezdédi and more, we see that it must be done, corrected, resolved. In many cases, the Hungarian courts are so independent that they make judgments that are independent of reality and social justice. As I began the last minute, I will conclude by saying that origin can neither be an advantage nor a disadvantage, so it is unacceptable that many Gypsy minority offenders are given a severe mitigating circumstance because of their origin. This must be protected and put in place in the future. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-05-02-191	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Secretary of State is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-02-192	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I was pleased to hear that Mr President was of the same opinion as to the fact that origin cannot be a factor in what judgment is being made. But I can only confirm that the government respects Hungarian judicial independence. In Hungary, a court will decide whether a person has committed a crime, if so, what crime he has committed, and the court will impose the penalty for it. We are therefore not in a position to classify them either in relation to previous or current judgments. There is also a judicial law analysis group in the Mansion. On this basis, we really want to achieve, and, as you have said, the President and the President are working a great deal to achieve, in a truly clear and clear way, judgments that meet the requirements of both law and society. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-02-193	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:.Family-friendly institution is the MNB? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-02-194	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, For some time now, we have been rushing our heads about what is happening to MKB, one of the largest Hungarian banks. The bank was nationalised at a high price, for 17 billion forints, then freed from bad loans, recapitalisation of 100 billion forints of public money, and finally privatised in part to an offshore company with Luxembourg-Singapore background, Blue Robin. But the process was not interrupted because the offshore company sold its property, so Tamás Szemerey, your cousin and Ádám Balogh, former vice-president of the MNB, became the owner of MKB 20%, and 10 percent, who is obviously the strome of you or your cousin, because he received a loan of $4 billion while his assets were a used Opel Astra. Of course, the only reason it came out was because Transparency's request for information was supposed to release it anyway. So we owe it to the civilians you're chasing to let the taxpayers know what's going on with their money. Today, the Hungarian economy is in fact the same as in the early 1990s. Then the former MSZMP elite stole the factories, the power plants, everything that could be moved. One of the preferred assets was that the buddy bank or savings company had a billion-dollar loan to the management, i.e. they essentially acquired the wealth for free. Then comrades, as well as comrades, are also the beneficiaries of this mafia-like operation. Mr President, Do you see that there is almost the same thing going on in the Hungarian economy as in the early 1990s at the time of the robbery, only now the Fidesz party elite is ripping off half the Hungarian economy, including the banking sector? I would like to ask what you, as a very influential central bank president, intend to do to prevent this, at least in the banking sector.
u2017-05-02-195	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to President György Matolcsy. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2017-05-02-196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Let me be happy to inform you that an amazing success story is the privatisation of the MKB. I mean... [[An uproar from the opposition benches. György Szilágyi: One day, your cousin became a billionaire!]] After all, before the Hungarian government handed MKB over to the Hungarian National Bank to carry out the bank resolution procedure, this bank caused a loss of HUF 100 billion a year. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: And what a good place it is! Should we calm down now?]] even to the Bavarian owner, but indirectly to the Hungarian state [[Lajos Korózs: We are calm now!]] by means of unpaid taxes. The Government of Hungary has bought this huge loss group of banks for EUR 55 million, accepting a very, very favourable offer. Then, when the Prime Minister and the Government decided that the National Bank of Hungary took over MKB and launched a bank resolution procedure, which, by the way, represents the first successful example of the new European Union resolution legislation, this seemed to be a hopeless case. We have implemented a successful bank resolution procedure. As a result, we sold MKB for HUF 37 billion. This is twice the amount paid by the Hungarian Government on behalf of the Hungarian State for MKB. [[Dr. István Józsa: What about resolution?]] The MKB is now profitable instead of losing 400 billion HUF, thanks to the new management carried out by Ádám Balogh, one of Hungary's youngest and most talented bank managers. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Oh, my God!]] [[17.10]] It is very successful, and how successful it will be in the future, it is also ensured that the management has become owner. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-02-197	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-05-02-198	I have two types of comments, Mr President. One is that you started by saying that this is a huge success story. The question of whose point of view it is a huge success story and how is it possible for an MKB to be bought by the state and then risked the taxpayers' money, because then there was no guarantee that this could be sold with heavy taxpayers' money, as you say. That's half of it. And the other half is that it's obvious that you're treating taxpayers' money as if it were your own property. This is what we saw when the Magyar Nemzeti Bank established the foundations, and we see the same in the banks that once they nationalise and once they privatise. In the meantime, the numbers are kept secret. [[Sándor Szabó: Thief gang!]] And the only way we're gonna find out is if something goes wrong or someone sues him. Obviously, it's because they have something to hide.
u2017-05-02-199	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. President. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2017-05-02-200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In a similar way, I am pleased to inform you that the taxpayer has not cost a penny... [[Lajos Korózs: Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Whose money is it?]] - did it cost you? [[Lajos Korózs: From what, then?]] -... this extremely successful bank resolution and privatisation until now. A success story once again because it terminated a former loss-making Hungarian bank. It's a success story because it forces the entire banking system to compete. Success story because management became interested in efficient operation. The example of foundations is not good, Congresswoman, because there the foundation's wealth increased, not least, while the foundations provided HUF 5 billion in funding. [[Sándor Szabó: Thief!]] What's good, I think it's worth saying is good. MKB privatisation is successful. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-02-201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It's 5:12 p.m., and we're done with Question Time. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Congressmen, why do you have to be childish? [[Nándor Gúr's intervention.]] Congressman Nándor Gúr, I warn you twice. It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the T/14434 on the publicity of the state security past. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I will give the floor to the rapporteur in a five-minute time frame, followed by two-minute contributions by groups of Members, and this two-minute time frame will also be granted to the first independent Member to speak. I am speaking on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Adam Mirkóczki, from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-02-202	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, For you, it is a shame - I could start with the first sentence - to bring this very important bill to Parliament in this way, which has been delayed for 27 years. I am sorry that Mr Rétvári, State Secretary, is going out, who speaks so much in favour of the current regulation and its greatness, but I would like to stress that our proposal is quite different and entirely novel in terms of the settlement of Hungarian relations. What you put on the table as a package of laws governing the National Remembrance Committee is essentially, in a sentence, how we guarantee that nothing is guaranteed, especially in the case of people who, where appropriate, hold a position of middle or very high rank in political, economic or other administrative areas, we can say today. On the other hand, Jobbik was not a trick, we were not looking for different consensus, but we were simply looking physically at the site, specifically in Bydgoszcz, at what the Polish model looked like in practice. In Poland, the Institute of National Remembrance is similar only in its name to the one in force in Hungary, which you named the National Remembrance Committee. What is important is that the Polish legislation that has entered into force is not about how no one can access any data, but is about guaranteeing the widest possible publicity for anyone. In a short sentence, I would like to refer to the fact that researchers in Hungary complain that even if they acquire the various permits and permissions to have access to state security documents or files in the Historical Archives or even within the framework of the National Remembrance Committee, they are still faced with anonymized files, lack of specific pages, and, ergo, it's almost only about luck and the amazing research that depends on whether they can find out anything that is completely natural in Poland. On the other hand, in Poland, it works either as a journalist or as anyone else in the Vojvodina centre knocks on the National Memorial Institute and tells me that I want to deal with data on X.Y.Z. because I write a newspaper article or because I'm doing a study or I'm interested in it because I'm interested in it because of a completely different level of involvement. And what God gives, Poland can do this without bones, and the Polish Institute of National Remembrance is not to prevent it, as opposed to the Hungarian National Remembrance Committee. That is why we consider this to be important, because Poland is not in relation to historical events, but in relation to political events, essentially in relation to the same thing as Article XX. It has a past of the century, like Hungary, and our goal was not to invent Spanish wax, but to adapt the regulation of a well-functioning, established country with the same past to Hungarian. That is exactly what happened, we took the Polish law - you can access it through the IPN website - and we translated it into the Hungarian legal order. Accordingly, this proposal would ensure that the 27-year lag and the moral debt which is primarily your shame, as those who have already spent their third term on government... - and yet, I am sorry for the not-so-nice expression, but they have a picture every year on 23 October, on 4 November, of many millions of forints and many billions in imposing circumstances to give nice speeches, while in practice they do everything they can to ensure that nothing is ever revealed. Our regulation is a matter of political will, not the redeployment of hundreds of millions, not the creation of billion-dollar budget lines, but a political intention to have the courage to close the communist past once and for all, to face the dictatorship, and to take the zeroth step that could result in frustration in Hungary. This is the real question: do they want a clean public life, or do they want us to wait for everyone involved to leave in the natural way and guarantee that nothing will be revealed? I'm very confident that at least some of you will be brave enough. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik. You can hear a loud voice in your room.]]
u2017-05-02-203	I'm gonna need you to find out who's using the balcony above me for a public discussion. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Guard!]] Thank you very much. As I said, one representative per group of Members can now speak in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member in a two-minute time frame. First, I would like to address Congressman Sallai R. Benedek of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-02-204	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Although it is not my place to answer my colleague Mirkóczki's question, he asked my fellow Members if they wanted a clean public life - they would not be here. So, of course they don't want to. And they don't just want clean public life, they don't want to get rid of the post-communist past that's starting to fall on Fidesz. [[17.20]] Who can reposition their own polling base so much that, after the events of 89, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán now continues a Soviet-friendly or Russian-friendly policy but doesn't want to invite the troops to come here to help maintain order? Of course they're hiding snitches. Of course they're hiding snitches. As long as they're in their ranks, there's nothing else they can do. And that is basically the problem, because practically Hungarian society has to understand from the last 27 years that nothing has changed. The instruments have changed, the communication style has changed, but the same one-party system is strengthened by the current governing party, Fidesz-KDNP, when a party wants to decide everything, and it doesn't matter what we say from the opposition lines, what we represent and what we try to cheat. Basically, Fidesz-KDNP takes away the right of the Hungarian people to know our own past; they take away the fundamental right of the observed, the abused, to disclose all the data that would allow us to see clearly the years that characterized the years of communism. Germany tried to face its past after the Hitler period; Japan tried to face its past. It is natural for a nation to remain conscious, to face our mistakes. Fidesz-KDNP - just like the other governing parties in Hungary in the last 27 years - denies the Hungarian electorate, it denies the Hungarian people, and this is what best proves its great hypocrisy and hypocrisy. As a result, it is clearly not expected that a meaningful political change will take place as long as informants, snitches and spies are hidden in their own ranks. There will be no change as long as former MSZMP members receive ministerial seats. The Possibly Other is in favour of the subject series. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-02-205	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask if there is anyone who wishes to speak in the debate on behalf of the other factions and of the non-attached Members. [[For signal:]] Congressman György Szilágyi asked for the floor from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2017-05-02-206	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. You can see that the governing parties don't talk to him, the MSZP doesn't talk to him, they're on a platform on this issue, they're as interested as they are here at the moment. The government's three cycles were not enough to deal with this communist past, or to allow them to deal with this communist past. In fact, rather than want to settle down, we are going backwards in time, and we are going almost towards the one-party system, and you are trying to establish and implement a new dictatorship in Kadár in Hungary. The victims have been constantly humiliated for 27 years by the fact that you are not settling this issue, and you are only not settling it because in your ranks there may be a lot of former communists and agents you do not wish to reveal. This was done in Poland, which allowed Jaruzelski and his 11 associates to be brought to justice. In Hungary, too, Gyula Horn would not have been Prime Minister, but would have been brought to justice, for example, Béla Biszku could not have lived his life calmly, for example, a significant part of the Tiny Clan would also have had to answer in court for his actions. And there is one aspect, unfortunately, of this speech and the submission of this bill, that your official aid organisation, the Hungarian Eco-Comenical Relief Organisation, has been found to be the leader and president of László Lehel, who has been recruited on an ideal basis, so that he did not even have to be threatened, but was recruited on an ideal basis, and then, after the so-called regime change, he lived quietly with you for 27 years, working calmly with the Prime Minister's wife, because Anikó Lévai is a good service ambassador for this relief organization. So you're comfortable working with people, agents who have destroyed families in this country and have been humiliating these families, these destroyed families and the victims for 27 years. Shame on you that you do not support the efforts of the Jobbik Hungary Movement to finally get clean and put an end to the communist past! [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2017-05-02-207	Thank you very much. I will ask Mr Adam Mirkóczki if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Time frame's two minutes. Here you go.
u2017-05-02-208	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't know what to say to you that you have so many words, or that you don't have that much to say, to at least transfer or bet or at least lie about why you can't support the fact that we've ruined something in the title or in the 28th. Section 3 or at least lie about something as usual. You can see how uncomfortable this is for you. I don't know if anyone has noticed - I hope that more and more people in this society will notice - that when this question arises, when you speak, you always start with why you can't. They never say that we have to do this, or we have to do this, and we try to do that, in case we get deeper, at least in a moral sense, but they always talk about why we can't. We are talking about what we want and how we want and how we will do it, because it is an illusion, as we do not have at the moment, neither you should have it for long, so I can say that you have a year, and then you will find out who is involved, because this proposal applies to all born before 1972, and I assume or use the free idea that both the Hungarian administration and the Hungarian political life and the Hungarian economic sector, for example, have plenty of people who were born before 1972, who were active in the period before 1989, and I assume that their past is not necessarily spotless in this respect. And I also assume that you are in contact with you, because if we ask you what prevents you from supporting such a proposal, there is only one answer: that you are affected, not slightly, very much; not up to your ankles, but to your head. And I thank the LMP for their support. Obviously, these are the two parties that want to complete the change of regime in Hungary in this sense. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2017-05-02-209	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the measures needed to improve food safety and food quality H/14372. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Agriculture. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, the rapporteur, for a five-minute period. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-02-210	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The parliamentary decision before us was in part made at the time when the Hungarian Government and Minister János Lázár drew attention almost week after week to the food scandal in the western Member States of the European Union and its eastern Member States, which created the background to this particular dual food quality. I was very curious in the first weeks whether the government would take concrete action to address this problem then, or if the Minister would just stand out on Thursdays and tell me from week to week what a problem this is and what a problem it is. But nothing has happened, and the government has not taken any action to date, nor has it taken any action to ensure that Hungary's citizens take action on their fundamental rights enshrined in the Fundamental Law, which would provide them with the highest level of healthy environment. Accordingly, my colleagues and I have reviewed within the LMP the action plan that, if we were to govern it, it would be necessary to take immediate action, and we have made a concrete proposal to the Parliament to take immediate action with the mandate of the government. The proposal contained such points in the form of a parliamentary decision: within 60 days, a detailed action plan for domestic consumers should be drawn up by the government in order to improve the quality of food marketed. Obviously, this is a concrete and reasonable step. This requires a comprehensive review of the Hungarian Food Book and the most stringent food quality characteristics found in the different Member States of the European Union. Obviously, this can be done, because in Hungary - as I have already said in an interpellation - there is nothing else on the shelves of grocery stores than what you allow, to which you give your consent. Obviously, this would be manageable by domestic regulation. We wanted the government to introduce requirements for the posting of mandatory information when selling measured products. We wanted the government to create institutional and enforcement conditions for food safety to ensure continued operation - [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Excuse me, do I have five minutes, Mr. President? [[For signal:]] Thank you very much - so if you had created the institutional conditions for this, because the authority's background in this direction has been significantly reduced in recent years by the government, including the environmental institutional system. I wanted the government to set up a much stricter customs regime for food coming from outside the European Union in the official system, since we should also protect the domestic market. [[17 .30]] Obviously, this would be due to the possibility for the rural population to take steps to encourage home production, to create a former garden-Hungary idea, and to take concrete action to this end. We wanted the FM to stop the forgery of statistics on domestic organic products, as he introduced the concept of organic lawn in the organic food as if the human organism were suitable for the consumption of cellulose-containing grass. This is a simple forgery, because unfortunately, the background to organic production in Hungary has deteriorated significantly in recent years. We would very much have liked the Parliament to ask the government, in cooperation with farmers, to introduce, on a French sample, a credible food classification system, which makes a clear distinction between products that do not meet the highest standards of food industry and also positively which meet them. We wanted the pesticides mentioned today in the pesticide policy to be removed from production and replaced by other substances which do not pose an environmental risk to human health. This option would also be available for FM. I have initiated that the 2010 LXXXVII on the National Land Fund. Based on the spirit of law, in the case of state land transferred to large owners, the State should restore the original state to recover it... - and indeed to provide small and family farmers with these previously allocated land. And I wanted the Hungarian monopolies in the food industry, which the government is fond of supporting, be it Lőrincé Mészáros or Sándor Csányi, not to give support, but to start the small-scale development of the local food industry and support for family businesses while building opportunities for local direct sales. I would very much have liked measures to be taken on health-conscious nutrition, sustainable consumption behaviour, and many more, which I now do not have time to demonstrate; I have summarized twenty points. Perhaps, as a last case, I wanted the government, through the Prime Minister, to publicly apologize to the Hungarian society for the wrong directions to food safety so far, for cancers, and to strive for a higher level of healthy food for Hungarian consumers. I would like your support for this, and I would like your attention to the series of subjects. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-05-02-211	Thank you, Congressman. Now, one representative per group of representatives may speak in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member may also speak in a two-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-02-212	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group will, of course, support the resolution proposal in the course of tomorrow's votes, and I would just like to give you a few thoughts on this. We think that if, overall, any of our fellow Members points to a real social problem, then at least they deserve to be discussed, and if this came into the House in the form of a proposal for a decision, then this is, as a matter of fact, eligible and should be supported. Secondly, in terms of its content, we know very well about the news of the last few weeks and months, and the Hungarian public is aware that, indeed, in terms of the quality of food, Hungarian and international research has revealed very serious problems in the field of food quality. It is enough to think that Slovak and Hungarian, we would say that the food supply of Eastern European markets, the large stores in Eastern Europe, is significantly different from the food supply in Western countries. We therefore think that this is trying to point out a real social problem, and we think that it is therefore absolutely necessary to support it. By the way, I note that Hungarian agriculture, which we are proud of, is capable of producing very high and high quality products, and yet we are faced with the fact that food chains, whether we say so, may bypass the regulations that apply to them, and these high-quality Hungarian foods do not reach Hungarian consumers. We believe that this is unacceptable, and therefore, as I said, Mr President, the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party will support it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-05-02-213	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, From the Jobbik Group, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát's contribution follows. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-02-214	Mr President, Dear House, It is a shame and a disgrace, which the Fidesz majority of the Agriculture Committee dared to do, that under these circumstances, a proposal concerning food safety was not even worthy of trial. They act as if we cannot find many problems in Hungary in this area. To give an example: you, Fidesz MEPs, have also brought up the example of food safety, that in a Hungarian plant where the same product was manufactured for both Hungarian and Austrian markets, the product destined for the domestic market under the same brand name and presentation was still worse than the one on the Austrian market. As long as such impertinent abuses can occur in this market at all, there would be plenty to do. We can see that the amazing double standard, which also affects demand conditions, and as a result of which the Hungarian market is less expensive, could also be mitigated by Jobbik's wage union initiative, as many Hungarian customers have no choice but to make consumer decisions on the basis of their price alone. And if we are simply looking at the result of price competition, we can see that, in many cases, poor food products are brought to the Hungarian market without obstacles, which, besides a normal control system, cannot even find a way to the Hungarian markets. As an add-on, I note that Hungarian vegetables and Hungarian fruits can only be found in any large shopping centre at the expense of long research work, if possible. This is a disgrace and a disgrace in an agricultural country and in the potential pantry of Europe! This is why we are not understanding the reasons why the representatives of Fidesz-KDNP dare not negotiate on this subject at all. At least Jobbik considers this proposal worthy of discussion. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-02-215	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if one of the other groups or of the independent Members wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Mr Sallai R. Benedek if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On the sign of Sallai R. Benedek:]] Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-02-216	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I am stunned because according to this, food safety is as uncomfortable and sensitive a topic for Fidesz-KDNP as the Lustration Act. So the fact that they don't even have an opinion and don't say it here is broadly proof of their accomplice in the food scandal that has come up in the past, and perhaps it's not a coincidence that they've been silenced in this matter. First of all, I would like to thank Zsolt Legény, the speaker of the Hungarian Socialist Party, for his support. Thank you very much, because I did not have the opportunity to mention the importance of domestic products in the tight framework. To date, the majority of shops have non-domestic products on the shelves. We sell raw materials without added value abroad in Hungary, and the Minister claims that this is a success, while this would be the opportunity to create meaningful jobs with food industry developments, and obviously there is no effort to do so. So thank you very much. Thank you very much for your contribution, too, and thank you for the support of the Jobbik faction. I would like to pay particular attention to the fact that my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, has raised issues of dual food quality. I suggest the Jobbik faction pays attention to how quiet the government is in this. What happened last week that there was no communication in this? What could be the reason that there is no visible action? What happened so we wouldn't hear about any FM action and any action by the Nébih? So obviously here, some accomplice activity is happening, very, very visible. Another very important point has been pointed out by my good-looking fellow Member, which I also did not have time to mention, and this is the Hungarian consumer mentality, which is basically based on price preference. Obviously, this food safety is important precisely so that there is no possibility of placing a poor quality product on the shelves. If someone has less money... - of course, this should be the first thing they should be able to handle so that they can definitely buy a good quality product, but this proposal is aimed at not having a poor quality product on the shelves, nor at buying it even if it is cheaper. I'm guessing Fidesz-KDNP will reconsider their fate in case they sleep until tomorrow, and they'll support it, please. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-02-217	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on amendments to the laws governing cooperation in the EU and international criminal matters and related legislation for harmonisation purposes and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal are now in order. The government referral is T/14683. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available to all of them on the parliamentary IT network. [[17.40]] I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2017-05-02-218	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, On 27 April 2017, during the meeting, the Legislative Committee held a debate on T/14683. About bill No. 1. The board of the house rules 46. It submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 23 votes in favour, no votes against and 6 abstentions. The draft amending proposal contains the amendments, supported by the Judicial Committee and tabled by Dr. Gergely Bárándy, two of which were aimed at language positioning and codification, and the third proposal, for which the Committee agreed with the purpose of the amendment, was not adopted in the form submitted. In the proposal adopted, the amendment makes it clear that the organisation of a terrorist group should be punishable for any terrorist purpose. In addition, the Legislative Committee has added further clarifications that will make purely legal corrections. Ladies and gentlemen, Please agree to create the conditions for the adoption of the two-thirds grant in Parliament, since if Parliament could not adopt this law, sanctions against Hungary could be put in place in accordance with the information given at the committee's meeting. I suggest that all of this be considered when a vote is taken on the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-02-219	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mr Pál Völner, as rapporteur, if he wishes to speak. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] So you'll have a 10-minute window at your disposal for closing hours. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. The timeframes are set out in the billboard. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to close in this situation. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the debate on the Commission's report on the free ecclesiastical ownership of certain state-owned properties. The government referral is T/15058. The Commission is available to all on the parliamentary IT network, together with the non-autonomous texts received. I will ask Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, whether he wishes to speak as rapporteur at the beginning of the debate. [[Dr. János Fónagy nodds.]] Here you go, Secretary of State. I would just like to inform you that you have a total time-frame of 10 minutes for this speech and the closing words at the end of the debate. There you go. You have the floor.
u2017-05-02-220	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The main objective of the bill we are discussing is to provide state-owned property for the benefit of the ecclesiastical legal persons who are beneficiaries, in order to help them carry out their public tasks. The property is owned free of charge by the designated churches. The bill provides for the free transfer of two properties to Esztergom-Budapest County for the benefit of the Eger County and the Unified Israeli Community of Hungary, while for the benefit of the Don Bosco Salézi Company a part of the property of a state property. The bill also states that the Károlyi Palace at the corner of Múzeum utca and Ötpacsirta utca will be owned by the Universal Patriarchate of Constantinople, the Orthodox Exarchate of Hungary, with effect from 1 September 2017. The property of Károlyi Palace is listed in the list of the monument-protected structures of the National Property Act, which are considered to be national assets of national importance for the national economy. In order to enable the beneficiary to use the property received only in accordance with the purpose of the transfer, an indefinite disposal and debit ban is imposed on the basis of the bill, in addition, the beneficiary must comply with the specific legal provisions on historic protection in all cases. There was no amendment to the bill during its parliamentary hearing. To conclude the debate on the Commission's report, I thank the Justice Committee for its work and, in particular, the groups of the parties who have given their support to the bill. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I am therefore asking you to support the bill. I thank you for your attention, and I thank the President for his opportunity. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-02-221	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'd like to inform you that you have a seven-minute, 30-minute time frame left for the closing. I respectfully inform the Parliament that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to its representatives to address the time-frames on the agenda, which have appeared on the billboards. I respectfully ask if anyone wishes to speak in this debate. I would also like to inform this House that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] As no one has applied for a speech, the debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to close in this situation. [[Dr. János Fónagy says no.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions will take place at our next meeting. Next up is the 2013 XXXVII on certain rules for international administrative cooperation on tax and other public burdens. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/14679. In addition to the Commission's non-autonomous texts received, this number is available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. To present this, I give the floor to the rapporteur of the committee, Mr László Vécsey. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-02-222	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 27 April 2017, the Legislative Committee discussed certain rules for international administrative cooperation on tax and other public burdens in the year 2013 XXXVII. T/14679 on the amendment of the Act Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution No 46. It was unanimously supported by 29 votes in favour. At the meeting of the Legislative Committee, the members supported the Commission's proposal to close a detailed debate on the Committee on Economic Affairs, which included linguistic and legal clarification, and also an oral and technical correction, with which the Committee fully agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, Greater tax transparency expected as a result of the regulation can encourage multinational groups to comply with their tax liability to the extent required by law in the country where they gain profits, including in Hungary. [[17.50]] Furthermore, the proposal is aimed at implementing, in addition to the transposition of the relevant EU directive, other international obligations to which I call for this House's support. Thank you very much for your attention; thank you, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-05-02-223	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak now. [[András Tállai: At the end.]] He doesn't want me now. I would like to inform you, Mr Secretary, that you will now have a 10-minute deadline for closing. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was set up by the designated Economic Committee. The speeches will now take place in the time-frames on the agenda, which have already been published on the billboard. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Mr Tamás László. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-02-224	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, XXXVII of 2013 on certain rules for international administrative cooperation on tax and other public burdens The general debate on the bill amending law took place on 4 April. I believe that the fact that there was no intention of amending the motion clearly shows that all the groups agreed with the content and drafting of the bill. As a reminder, I will say again briefly why this proposal is important. It transposes a Council Directive of the European Union into Hungarian law, which aims to require multinational groups to submit a country-by-country report each year, in which they account for their revenue, results, tax bases, activities, staff numbers, subscribed capital. These tax automatic exchanges will greatly facilitate transparency and will greatly help Member States' tax authorities to identify tax evasion and tax evasion activities. The Economic Committee, as a designated committee, held a detailed debate on 11 April and tabled an amendment containing technical and linguistic specifications. Last week, the Legislative Committee also supported the motion, as Mr Vécsey said, so, if the summarised amendment was adopted, the technical clarifications mentioned above will be incorporated into the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that transparency and tax transparency are important values that will only strengthen with the adoption of the bill, so I ask my fellow Members to support the motion when voting. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-05-02-225	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, As many people have not applied for a speech, the debate is closed. I will ask Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate within a period of ten minutes. [[András Tállai: Yes.]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-05-02-226	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill will lead to a further extension of the mandatory automatic exchange of information in 2016/881. It implements the adoption of the EU Directive at home. The aim of the Directive is to provide the tax authorities of the EU Member States with information on the structure, transfer pricing of multinational groups and on certain transactions in the EU and beyond. This information allows Member States to take appropriate risk analysis and tax control against the phenomenon of tax evasion and avoidance and to detect the artificial transfer of profits of certain businesses. A single amendment was tabled to the bill after the general debate, which contained only legal technical and linguistic clarification proposals. The amendment was supported by the government. The low number of amendments also shows that the rules on the submission of country-by-country reports and related data reporting have been clearly formulated. From now on, it is clear that the objectives to be achieved by the bill, including the fight against tax evasion, are generally supported. Increased tax transparency as a result of the regulation encourages multinational groups to comply with their tax obligations to the extent required by law in the country, including in Hungary, where they gain profits. Great transparency for tax administrations, which is targeted by this bill, gives greater insight into the structure of multinational groups, their activities in relation to transfer pricing and its activities both in the EU and outside the EU. As transparency increases, the tax authority will also be able to act more effectively against tax avoidance. Dear Parliament, On the basis of what has been said, I would like to ask you to support with your vote the bill on certain rules for international administrative cooperation in relation to tax and other public burdens, which is also supported by the Government. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-05-02-227	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Vice-President István Jakab wishes to speak today about the 2013 CII on fish management and the protection of fish. T/14681. Bill No.2 and the 2012 CXXVI on the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food and Rural Development. T/14660. During the debate on bill No. If Mr Vice-President's representatives speak, he may lead the sitting in the course of further negotiations of individual motions only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that Vice-President István Jakab will be able to speak and lead the meeting during the further discussion of the proposals. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my motion. Dear Parliament, The 2013 CII on fish management and the protection of fish follows a series of steps. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/14681. The Commission is available to all of them on the Parliament's IT network together with the non-autonomous texts received. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Vice-President István Jakab, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2017-05-02-228	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Honourable Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed the 2013 CII on fish management and the protection of fish on 27 April 2017. T/14681. The Committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 23 votes in favour against 6 negative votes. The summarised amendment contains the legislative committee's own motion, which also clarifies the presentation of the commission in one point. On the one hand, the approved amendment empowers the Minister for Fisheries to develop a programme aimed at reducing invasive alien species and, on the other hand, it states that Balaton Fish Management Nonprofit Zrt. In addition to the economically sustainable use of Lake Balaton and the control of the production of fish in the Balaton river basin, Balaton Fisheries Ltd. the holder of the right to fish shall also be the minister responsible for the management of fish. [[18.00]] In addition to the above, the amending proposal contains clarification to assist interpretation and language positioning. There was no professional debate in the Legislative Committee, but only in the case of a motion of order to examine internal overextension, the petitioner himself, the author of the motion, abstained. The simplifications and clarifications contained in the bill clearly serve the interests of anglers and potential fish consumers. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-02-229	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, I will ask Secretary of State, Mr Bitay Márton Örs, as rapporteur, whether you wish to speak now or if you will speak only in the closing section. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was set up by the designated Agriculture Committee. It is now up to its Members to address the time-frames that have already been published on the billboards. I would like to inform this House that it is not possible to make a two-minute comment. First, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Győrffy of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-02-230	Thank you very much. [[His mic's falling off.]]
u2017-05-02-231	We wait for Congressman to put the mic down again - this has happened. All technical personnel, please restore your time frame. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. I thank you for your work, and I hand over the chair to Vice President Tamás Sneider. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]]
u2017-05-02-232	Thank you very much. Dear House, By amending the Law on fish management, we are slowly reaching the final vote. During the parliamentary debates, as we have heard, the proposal has undergone several amendments. These are largely the usual spelling, clarification or technical corrections, but there are also a number of substantive changes in the proposal. Several opposition proposals have been taken into account by various committees, such as the addition of parts of the law, such as the development of a programme to reduce invasive alien species and the ministerial mandate to develop a national programme to encourage fish consumption. In addition, the amendment facilitating the organisation of fishing competitions is still a substantial addition. I should mention that, based on the experience of Parliament's debates and their discussions, amendments have also been made to the proposal which no longer contain provisions requiring two thirds of the time. For example, it has become clear that we cannot count on the support of the opposition in extending the local government's right to fish management. I trust that my fellow Members will give their support to the adoption of the legislative amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-02-233	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman István Józsa.
u2017-05-02-234	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that these amendments, which have been mentioned so far, have a positive impact. Because the Balaton buse of God doesn't want to disappear from Lake Balaton. So it looks like the fact that in Lake Balaton the faggot can't reproduce because it's always going to be more and more faggots. So it's a meaningful and useful addition to the bill. At the same time, I would like to go back to the root of the issue, as regards the purpose of the proposal and the purpose of the law. In particular, there is a disastrously low consumption of fish per capita in Hungary. I do not want to live with far-reaching examples like Japan, where we have far-reaching health standards and life expectancy, and this is closely linked to multiple fish consumption, so this is particularly healthy. And the fact that we Hungarians consume so little fish is extremely unhealthy. While many of the target programmes are well supported by the agricultural portfolio, it was time to embrace domestic fish production for the sake of fish consumption. Another part of my improvised comment is the so-called big fish. By practically, probably correctly, almost exclusively receiving the live water from sports fishermen, the Hungarian markets, I hear that from the trader's feedback, the big fish is virtually gone. It would therefore be useful to support in some way not only by market instruments but also by other means of incentive, so that they can obtain what they have previously acquired from the sides of fish farming by consumers wishing to fish or by fish traders wishing to provide it. They find that only very fast-run and highly economical fish are found on the market, and that the different sector with a higher weight requirement is not. So I support the thinning of the Balaton busas, because it has a strong influence on Balaton's ability to fish, the first stage of the feeding chain is weakened by the excessive population of busas, which leaves fewer opportunities for the feeding of noble fish at the end. So this is a good effort. At the same time, I would support the government to take further steps to boost fish consumption, both in the field of food trade and in the field of information and health conservation programmes, with different preferences and market-enhancing opportunities. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-05-02-235	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I'll ask Secretary of State, Mr. Bitay Márton Örs, if you'd like to comment at the end. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-02-236	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would just like to thank the opposition parties very briefly for their support. Although I know that the two-thirds parts were eventually not supported, they made it clear at every meeting that this was the result of the upcoming campaign, not their professional opinion. As Congressman Józsa has said, this law is not so bad, so, although I am not happy that the two-thirds part of it will end up out of it, I think it is a pity that the municipalities cannot have the right to fish management. But throughout the cycle, the opposition supported the law, even though not all of them are part of the opposition, but the two-thirds have also passed, and they have now made it clear that the political considerations of their parties do not support this law, which I regret. I am also pleased that the adoption of the law coincides with the government's decision to reduce the VAT on fish from the next year. Perhaps by doing so, the consumption of fish in itself will recover a little. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-02-237	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The 2012 CXXVI on the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food Economics and Rural Development will now follow. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. T/14660 submitted by representatives of István Jakab and Balázs Győrffy. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Vice-President István Jakab.
u2017-05-02-238	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Honourable Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed on 27 April 2017 the 2012 CXXVI on the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food and Rural Development. T/14660. The Committee submitted a summary amendment and a summary report, adopted by 20 votes in favour and 10 votes against. [[18.10]] The summarised amendment contains the legislative committee's own motion, which clarified the committee's amendment in two points. The adopted proposal thus clarifies that the mandate of the delegates of the new county delegation is not established on the day of the inaugural county delegation, i.e. not on the calendar day, but on the date of the establishment of the new delegation meeting, and the mandate of the previous delegation will be terminated at the same time. Furthermore, in order to ensure a clear application of the law, it should be noted that the provision on arbitration does not cover clauses already concluded and valid at the time of entry into force of the amendment. Finally, the amending proposal provides a longer period of preparation for the application of the provisions of the law. Overall, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe and the members of the committee consider that the adoption of the bill could result in clearer and more precise rules, which is in the fundamental interest of both the employees, employees and the members of the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture and the members of the Chamber. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-02-239	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will ask the author, Mr Balázs Győrffy, if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] He says he doesn't want to comment. I'm going to ask you if you'd like to comment from the government, Secretary of State. (To be indicated:) He says he doesn't want to comment. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Agriculture Committee. The speeches are now coming up, so I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény.
u2017-05-02-240	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to talk for a long time, but I would just like to say the position that we make every time the Chamber of Agriculture Act comes up. We see that the Chamber of Agriculture does not engage in any meaningful interest interests, we hear a lot of complaints from farmers about its operation, they just think the Chamber is a collecting station, so, as we said at the beginning and in the general debate, we will not support the bill. We believe that Fidesz has taken over the Chamber of Agriculture and that instead of representing the Chamber of Professionals, they are exercising a political representation in the Chamber of Agriculture. Therefore, as I said, we will not support it. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2017-05-02-241	Thank you very much for your speech. Ladies and gentlemen, If there is no further intention of commenting, the debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. Mr. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-05-02-242	Thank you very much. Basically, the amendment, I think, did not generate any particular professional debate. At the same time, I would like to respond to what you have said to my fellow Member Zsolt Legény here on this forum. Congressman, I'd like to ask what you've told me on behalf of my colleagues. Over the past few years, the villagers of the Chamber have helped farmers draw some HUF 1500 billion in support. By the way, we have done this by not having one single EU resource called for this activity in the last year and this year, so the Chamber is financing this activity from membership fees and other revenue. So I don't think it's supposed to be a waste of money that's paid as a chamber fee. And I would like to draw your attention to one more thing, Congressman. About 5 billion forints is the membership fee the chamber collects each year. I would like to inform you that only with the project that is running now and we hope is successful, as far as the anti- hail system is concerned, only with this one project we can save the Hungarian agriculture a value of HUF 50 billion annually, and I am only talking about agriculture. Even here, the value of the food industry, the machines, the buildings is not included. Congressman, the ratio is 1:10. In order for this system to be built, this anti-creep system could be created, and we needed an infrastructure that the Chamber could create with its own construction. This gave us the opportunity to think at all about such a project, which provides protection at national level. So I'm very proud of that, and I'm also very proud of my colleagues who have thought this out. Then we managed to achieve that both the Prime Minister's Office with the rural development programme and the FM in the compensation scheme... because the funding will not be an additional source for farmers, as we will be able to do so from the Compensation Fund. To achieve this, this, I think, is a meaningful achievement. And so that you obviously do not acknowledge this for political reasons, I accept that, but allow me to correct what you have said in this place, because I deeply disagree with it, and I hope that the success of this programme will be sufficient in itself to convince you and many others that we have sworn to do a meaningful, professional job, and that we would like to continue. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-02-243	Thank you. I would like to point out to Mr Zsolt Legény that there is no further opportunity to comment, that the debate is closed, and that the subject may be taken out before the agenda tomorrow at the latest. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. It is now up to the general debate on the bill on the prevention of covert party funding and the provision of transparent campaign funding until the closure of the bill. Presentation by Members János Halász, Lajos Kósa and Répássy Róbert T/15329. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2017-05-02-244	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for the floor, Honourable House. Ladies and gentlemen, Before I begin to present the bill, I would like to read to you a quote:, "The benefits that the owners of public advertisements, billboards, operators of political players must be regulated in a uniform manner, or discounts must be completely prohibited. Huge billboard tariffs must be made public. The sentence quoted is not in the general justification of the bill before us, but was one of Transparency International Hungary's demands after the 2014 elections. It is a big question whether left-wing parties who often give opinions to international protection organisations take this position into account in the case of a bill for further transparency of party and campaign funding. Dear House, The Fidesz faction is committed to transparency and supports the bill on the prevention of covert party funding and the insurance of transparent campaign funding, and therefore agrees with the intention of the authors. The Fundamental Law states that political advertising in media services can only be communicated without consideration in order to provide adequate information for the development of democratic public opinion during the election campaign period, under the conditions laid down in the fundamental law ensuring equal opportunities. The Act on Election Procedure 148. § 2 of the Act states:. If a press product wishes to make a political advertisement, within 5 working days of the date of the election, it shall forward to the State Audit Office a price list of its advertising services, which it shall register and publish on its website. The same price list is published on the website of the press product. I would add that according to the campaign funding law, all candidates have the same amount of resources available and can spend the same amount on campaign activities as all other starters. This is why the funding of political messages outside the campaign period is a major problem. According to the proposal, if, in the interests of a party outside the campaign period under the electoral procedure, or otherwise in order to influence or attempt to influence the political message of the electoral will, the wall or inscription is placed at a lower or free price than the normal market price, i.e. the list price, it constitutes an unduly acquired asset advantage. In accordance with the current provision of the Act on the Functioning and Management of the Parties, if the Party obtains a financial advantage in connection with this activity, it shall pay the amount corresponding to the value of the asset advantage to the central budget at the request of the State Audit Office within 15 days. [[18.20]] The State Audit Office shall, within 5 working days of the appointment of the election, forward to the State Audit Office a price list of its advertising services, which it shall register and publish on its website. The same price list is published on the website of the press product. I would add that according to the campaign funding law, all candidates have the same amount of resources available and can spend the same amount on campaign activities as all other starters. This is why the funding of political messages outside the campaign period is a major problem. According to the proposal, if, in the interests of a party outside the campaign period under the electoral procedure, or otherwise in order to influence or attempt to influence the political message of the electoral will, the wall or inscription is placed at a lower or free price than the normal market price, i.e. the list price, it constitutes an unduly acquired asset advantage. In accordance with the current provision of the Act on the Functioning and Management of the Parties, if the Party obtains a financial advantage in connection with this activity, it shall pay the amount corresponding to the value of the asset advantage to the central budget at the request of the State Audit Office within 15 days.(18.20) While during the campaign period a political poster could be placed in the interest of a party by the advertiser and the media advertiser if his service price list was registered by the State Audit Office, a political poster can be placed only for the consideration determined by the registered price list. In essence, this procedure has already worked in the case of political advertisements in press products. In the case of Jobbik, in 2014, the State Audit Office found that in 26 cases the data of the accounts of political advertisements did not match the data contained in the price list or the prospectus, 3 press products did not send information, and 6 other press products publishing political advertisements were not listed in the media authority's register. So we are talking about a well-known regulation, which the bill would like to revise even in the case of public advertisements and billboards. Dear House, The proposal therefore serves a dual purpose, both to prevent further cases of covert party financing and, of course, to reduce the risk of corruption. As I have just said, in two cases, so in two different cases, there would be new rules for the law to be adopted, both within the campaign period and outside the campaign period. During the campaign period, advertisements would be subject to the same rule as media advertisements, i.e. equal opportunities between initial candidates, namely equal opportunities for single-member constituencies. While outside the campaign period, the proposal is adapted to the rule currently contained in the Act on the Functioning of the Parties, it is clear that they cannot accept support from a legal person. In the practice of the State Audit Office, each preferential service is also considered to be a subsidy, such as the case where parties have been able to lease property at a reduced rate for their own purposes, either at a reduced rate or free of charge, for the purposes of parties. In all cases, the State Audit Office considered that this was covered party financing and prohibited party financing, and therefore called on the parties concerned to pay the financial advantage thus obtained. It therefore follows earlier examples in all elements of the proposal, including earlier examples in force, in the same element as I said, what constitutes covert party financing. Of course, the question arises as to why such a law or bill is necessary if the State Audit Office has established a practice on prohibited aid. In other cases, because the State Audit Office has examined this aid only in the case of real estate use, the State Audit Office has not examined it in other cases. Obviously, a mandate is needed for the State Audit Office to examine this issue, and the bill would involve the State Audit Office in the audit, would involve it in monitoring outside the electoral campaign period, and would also involve it in the audit within the election campaign, in order to ensure the aforementioned equal opportunities during the political campaign. Dear House, I would like to make it clear that the proposal does not only apply to political parties, it is literally included in the proposal, namely Article 2 thereof. § 2 of the Act states that, in the interests of the Party, the benefit obtained by posters placed at a price lower than the market price or free of charge constitutes an unduly acquired asset advantage. Therefore, the proposal is not only a subject of the party, but also of all those who place notices in the interests of the party capable of influencing the electoral will. Dear House, The proposal therefore coincides with the current legislation, and coincides with the findings of some organisations investigating the 2014 election campaign. The proposal now awaits your decision. Proposals 1, 2 and 3 §2 of the Act constitutes a fundamental law. I very much hope that all those who agree to fight against illicit party financing and corruption will support our proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-02-245	Thank you. I will now ask Mr Pál Völner, on behalf of the government, if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] He indicated that he did not wish to comment now, so now we are going to have the keynote speeches, and here again I have to give the floor to Mr Répássy, Mr Róbert.
u2017-05-02-246	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As rapporteur, I have put forward all the arguments that have led our group to support the bill. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2017-05-02-247	All right. Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Sándor Burány, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-05-02-248	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, This bill would be valid in a normal country; in a normal country where the criteria of the democratic rule of law are not impaired, media relations are balanced and functioning, there is a system of brakes and balances. So let us not pretend that Hungary is a normal country in this respect, that we would work in normal media conditions, that, in normal media conditions, the citizen would be informed of the important issues affecting public life! We live in Hungary today in a world where the vast majority of the news is dominated by Fidesz. Fidesz controls not only the news of public media, but also a part of commercial radios and televisions. Direct influence can be felt, not only in the traditional electronic press, but also in the world of the Internet, with regard to various portals, it is enough to think only of Origo's vomit. So we live in a world where if someone doesn't find out about the Internet, they're convinced that Lőrinc Mészáros is a smart, talented gas mechanic who's smarter than the owner of Facebook. [[Dr. István Apáti: Cold and warm water...]] He is convinced that the greatest threat to Hungary today is György Soros, and I can give you more examples. There are not so small settlements in Hungary, where, for example, the channels provided by cable operators cannot be caught, let's say, by ATV, and now News TV has come to this fate in many respects. And now Fidesz is submitting a bill that leaves this world untouched, leaving this unconscious Fidesz overweight untouched in the news of the media, but it wants to regulate the world beyond that, and in which the will of Fidesz is not yet the only factor affecting this market. Therefore, this proposal is quite simply false. It's false that we're trying to regulate a section of the advertising market that's just a tiny slice of the whole cake, and most of this cake is simply dominated by Fidesz, and I'm not just thinking about what ads are pouring out of public media and the media affected by Fidesz. And let's not forget to mention, let's say, the county dailys, let's not forget that many small radios in the country now have their hands on the Fidesz just as they have their hands on TV2 through different stretchmen. In this news stream, the media dominated by the public media and Fidesz are streaming incredibly lying advertisements to the Hungarian population, and in these news programs, all the portals in which Fidesz has influence are broadcast very simply manipulated news from its public television. [[18.30]] All voters who are forced to learn about these news programmes and these advertisements receive a picture of Hungary. There is a relatively free section of information in Hungary, and this is the world of the Internet. For a reason, the Fidesz mentioned that he did not like this world. This world is more or less free, despite all the fidesz pushing, although there are ominous signs here too. But the sad truth is that, apart from the young and middle generation, most of the rural population is not informed about the Internet, and as part of a manipulated news stream, they feed on lies every day, so that's what the fidesz media feeds them. And now we have this bill, which would regulate the rest of the market, so to speak, because it hasn't been completely undermined by Fidesz. That is why this proposal is of concern, so it is unfair in its form, and I therefore think it is unacceptable. There is also a specific, discreet charm to this bill, namely that even in the world within Fidesen, it is possible for someone to turn against the central will. In his name, this is Lajos Simicska, one of the country's largest oligarchs, the permanent winner of public procurement, and he also maintains media businesses, but he has been in conflict with Viktor Orbán, so now Fidesz is building a new chain with the help of other oligarchs, led by Lőrinc Mészáros. And now what happened is that Lajos Simicska began to sympathize with Jobbik, let's call it, and this Fidesz doesn't like it. In view of the fact that Lajos Simicska has a media platform, this is what the Fidesz wants to regulate in some way, as he also tried to attack Lajos Simicska's businesses with laws and capital decisions regarding advertising platforms. We do not want to participate in this debate. The main issue is not that now the media owned by Lőrinc Mészáros and Andy Vajna is the fairer or the media empire marked by Lajos Simicska is the fairer. The MSZP is fighting for a Hungary, working for a Hungary where the oligarchs do not have direct political influence; there should be enough business for them, they have made a lot of money on it, there is no need to convert it into political influence. To sum up, today Hungary has unhealthy media conditions that ensure the overweight of Fidesz in the news and advertising, so we believe that a small slice of the media cake is false and cannot be supported. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-02-249	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to János Volner, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-05-02-250	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Fidesz, This bill would have been simpler, and it would have been more relevant if it had been called lex Simicska and not given him such a complicated name, which, by the way, would not have been understood by a Fidesz representative like Szilárd Németh, because they are not very aware of what the concept of party financing means. The other thing that's very important is how this all started, how we got to this point in the bill. First of all, the two good friends, the two former friends, had a fight, and the G-day happened when the Prime Minister received a sign from Lajos Simicska. And then we got to the point where you're already scared that Simicska told you that she wanted revenge, and the Simicska family also said that she wanted to take revenge on you every millimeter. I think that this is the reason behind this rather than the considerations regarding the cleaning up of party financing. Now, let's see how your party funding started, because it's not unteachable, and what you've done to this end. First of all, it looked as if the MDF, which derailed the change of regime, were together in this House, in this Chamber, to bring their own party to the headquarters. That's what happened. Shortly thereafter, it was arranged that if a party wanted to sell this headquarters - we were talking about December 91 - they could do so without VAT, so that they would not even have to pay VAT on it. Once again, with the MDF derailing the regime, they made this mess together, and then Fidesz received HUF 640 million from the sale of state property, which was not sold on a market basis, but was purchased by a state company well above market prices. This would be HUF 5 billion at the time at the current value of HUF 640 million. Most of this money has landed in the bank accounts of various Fidesz leaders, it is a confessed thing, and it is also a proven fact that a part of this money has been placed on the account of Viktor Orbán's father's company, ladies and gentlemen. Well, that's where your party funding starts. For the same year, millions of forints simply disappeared from Fidesz's party pot. There was no explanation for what it was spent on, it was simply taken up by someone, spent it, no accountability, of course, because at that time the police, the MDF managing the Ministry of Interior, co-opted this whole building business. Well, that was the first big stretch after the change of regime, which was a real face toaster. For the record, they were even blushing. Since then, this sense of shame has completely passed away because of the many thefts. It is also important to see that recently there was a plan for the government, which was leaked, and the press was also trying to destroy all the billboards, because Lajos Simicska is a strong player in this area, and because he stepped on Fidesz's toe, they tried to do so. It also started, like a real banana republic, a vendetta against Simicska in the case of billboards. While Lajos Simicska was pushing the Fidesz chariot while he was financing you, he won two elections to Viktor Orbán, there was no problem with him. Excuse me, you've won three elections for Viktor Orbán so we don't spoil the count. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You've been deceived!]] There was nothing wrong with him until then. When Lajos Simicska stepped out of the Fidesz camp, the one who is not with us, the government's legislative machine was turned against him and they tried to slaughter each other. We in this gang war that's going on between you, we don't want to get involved. However, some things will be worth saying, also in this regard. At the time when the billboards were removed, the court later ordered the Fidesz to restore these columns and thus return to their place. Recently, we have come to the point that representatives of Fidesz, who declared himself a civil Christian party, are organizing a nationwide action to damage Jobbik's billboards, thus causing substantial material damage. Lajos Kósa's assistant turned out to be organizing this vandal, devastating operation himself. We've come to the point where this thing has already happened. But it is worth checking whether the Fidesz is guided by honest, pure intentions when it wants to clarify exactly how party financing works. Let me remind you of a few things, ladies and gentlemen. Those of you who didn't like it, who owned opposition media, tried to make it impossible. They attacked the RTL Club, tried to disable it with an ad tax that had to be withdrawn and paid back the 20 billion forints collected from it to TV companies after Brussels' taping. One by one, Simicska News TV is released from various subscriber baskets in order not to reach the TV channels that broadcast the opposition voice. It is also important to see what happens at the same time on the television front. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, we have to say that Andy Vajna, the best-known sugar daddy in the country, bought TV2 with state money. So it's not like we need unpoliticised television channels like the government is lying about right now. This is about Andy Vajna, the government commissioner of the Orbán government, buying Hungary's second commercial TV channel with state money, and immediately making it a propaganda tool for the government, immediately launching the discredit campaign against better politicians. For the record, you've lost 40 lawsuits over the last few months in this propaganda machine based on lies. [[18.40]] Now, how did Andy Vajna do that? By suddenly increasing, let's say, the advertising spirit at TV2 by various market players, the ratings of the shows have come up well, and therefore the company has made a significant profit? Well, ladies and gentlemen, that's not what happened. The government openly and completely transparently started to finance the press close to it with the money of Hungarian taxpayers. What's this about? There's a guy named Árpád Habony, who we see here mixed with women's bags and high-heeled shoes in Kossuth Square, who is supposed to have access to Viktor Orbán, the Prime Minister, and this Árpád Habony is one moment when they ask him where he gets the money from when he doesn't even have a job, he says that he also received a loan of HUF 20 million from a Fidesz entrepreneur named András Tombor, and he's financing his luxury lifestyle. The next thing we know, this poor man with debts is starting national newspapers, who knows what. All of a sudden, government ads appear in the first issue, and the government uses taxpayers' money to ensure that Fidesz party press is raised, enhanced and secured, guaranteeing its future for several years in advance. What's this about? For example, there was a migration quota campaign, where Viktor Orbán suffered a clear defeat. But to add, there was a positive benefit to Fidesz. 15 billion forints in this campaign, only in this campaign, 15 billion forints of taxpayers' money was pumped into the government-wide press, thus ensuring that Ripost, Lokal, 888, Origo and similar waste portals could survive on the market. Ladies and gentlemen. I just want to draw your attention to how much money is 15 billion forints. The parties fighting each other did not use the amount of money combined in the Brexit campaign, from which you financed the migration campaign, which would otherwise end in a public-law nullity. It's a shame and a shame! And that's just one of many. Now, if you go to one of the favorite cards of the Christian-Conservative Prime Minister, the Ripost, you can see that government advertising is going, and they keep pushing it in our faces:. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. They open the page, and there, encouraging anal sex, they find content detailing the practices of this. I ask the pro-government representatives how this is related, how it is compatible with Viktor Orbán's papal audiences, holiness, post-Christianity. How does that fit together? I'll tell you: I can't. You deliberately support the dirtiest, lowest tabloids of public money, and you have the nerve to bring in a proposal saying that party financing needs to be tidyed up. Ladies and gentlemen. That's impertinence! I'm moving on. The question should also be asked, if you are talking about party funding, is that your punk organization, the CF, knows that he is running this man, Zoltán Lomnici, who is likely to become a constitutional judge, who is always adding in public television that he is a constitutional lawyer and is being used practically for his own political purposes - how does the CF have the money to post stupid posters all over the country? Why don't you want them accounted for? Is that because Fidesz is an auxiliary organization? Is it because you're spending your money on Fidesz's behalf, and you're actually supporting the government's activities? By the way, it indicates the attitude of fidesz hontas, and they don't dare look at me when I say those words, because they're ashamed of themselves. I don't blame you, by the way. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Boring.]] It is also important to see on what basis the current government talks about party financing and its clarification and transparency, knowing that HungaroControl, a state-owned company, supported Viktor Orbán's favourite civic circle with HUF 320 million. Not small change, 320 million forints, which was obviously used for a clear party political purpose linked to Fidesz. Ladies and gentlemen. If we look around any department, any state-owned big company, we can see that you either steal for yourself or steal for your party in a legal or illegal form. 'Cause I've lost all this money in one channel. I have to say that a lot of Hungarian entrepreneurs would like to undertake as Andy Vajna did from TV2: although he did not put money into having a multi-billion-forint TV channel, the state banks are in a hurry, giving credit, and shortly thereafter, the profits from the public ads pay back the loan, and in this way Andy Vajna succeeds in buying the country's second largest commercial TV company. So what I'm saying, ladies and gentlemen, is that if you were able to bring in such a law to talk about party financing and cleaning up public life, you'd have plenty to do with yourself. Spit on your own doorstep, and, last but not least, shame on you for robbing this country. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-02-251	Thank you very much. Although the LMP has not indicated that it would be leading speaker, I can see that Congressman Ákos Hadházy has applied, so I am now giving you the floor, because there is no other candidate. So you have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-05-02-252	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We apologize for the fact that we didn't signal in time, we wanted to tell you in any case, especially because the chairman of the committee on the Justice Committee didn't give the floor today, and he had the committee vote, and I would have been happy to say these sentences there, but for some reason the committee didn't want to listen, and they were probably in a hurry to have lunch. I would have surprised the committee because I would have started by saying that this is a good bill, a partially good bill. It is important, and the LMP has long said that it is important to see what parties spend, how much they spend, what they spend, and one of the most important is how much they spend on propaganda, party advertising, campaigns. It's a very important thing. Of course, there are two big problems with this plan. One is that you're late, because suddenly it's very important for Fidesz to see how much the poster costs, but it wasn't so important in 2010 or 13 or 12 or 14 or something. LMP also said that we would very much like to know how much those poster campaigns cost, what and who they took place. The other problem with this law is that it's half-work. Half-work, because it doesn't answer the most important question, it doesn't provide medicine. At the moment - we have heard more about it than the previous speakers - the governing parties are very well able to conduct advertising campaigns using government funds, primarily government money, primarily our money to pay for your campaign. After all, the government campaign, the government propaganda, equals the propaganda of the ruling parties. That is why we believe that this law does not need it at all. We do not think that it is absolutely possible to vote in favour, but we will submit an amendment to which we will introduce the law which, by the way, you have swept off the table in the last few weeks. We have passed a law that prohibits government propaganda, and this law is the most important law for Hungary today if we consider Hungarian democracy or the remnants of Hungarian democracy. If we don't restrict government propaganda and this kind of thing you're doing is not banned, it's practically clear that the next elections will be unfair elections. There is no other way to put it, because it is not a fair choice where the governing party can say what they want from dozens of billions of forints, tell them how cool everything is in this country, while the opposition can tell us for a fraction of these money what the problems are because of which it does not exist at all. The starting point of your bill is absolutely true, an election cannot be fair if one party has much more opportunity to give his opinion than the other party. That's what we're talking about at the moment, because you continue your propaganda with a dozen billion forints. There's a Ministry of Propaganda. He didn't have one before, and now he has a ministry, and what a coincidence that most of the propaganda campaigns will be run by his neighbor Csaba Csetényi's company. It's quite an outrage. It is very important to know - I spoke about this last week too - many say that the people's soul, the Hungarian people's soul, is responsible for the fact that, after such an outrageous government performance, so many thefts and such an open series of thefts, Hungary's biggest series of thefts and the greatest organized thefts in its history, the government is still in competition for governance. [[18.50]] This is not the inevitable consequence of the Hungarian people's spirit. Every country in which such a brainwashing, such a government propaganda campaign is launched, every country is at risk. There are countries like this now, there are these in Turkey, there are those in Russia, and not so long ago such an accident could have happened in European countries. Propaganda works in every nation, in every society. Human nature is like that, that it can work, and if we say something stupid a lot of times and do it for a lot of money, it certainly has its fruitage. I remember when, after the change of regime, even when Hungarian society didn't know that it was possible to say very stupid things in advertisements, didn't everyone buy diet pills and bomber jackets, because it was advertised a lot. Here, too, Hungarian society's defence capacity has not yet developed against the launch of propaganda campaigns, and to such a large extent and unscrupulously where they tell obvious and completely clear lies, quite simply today even a good part of the people do not know that there is a real lie on serious televisions and that serious advertising campaigns can be lied. The Prime Minister said that he wanted silence in 2017. And your government propaganda serves this silence, and it has disturbed you that another party has said things that you don't like. This silence is about the fact that it's okay that if a representative or two are to be led, it may even be necessary to lead a representative or two. The D.A.'s trying to stall, but there's already been an accident with a Mengyi Roland, it could happen to Flórian Farkas, it could happen to Congressman Simonka, it could happen to State Secretarys. The point is, let's not talk about it. But they don't have to lead anyone. In the last week, the Prime Minister himself proved it, and the Prime Minister himself admitted it here, in this House, that his family would receive HUF 15 million annually from the gas mechanic in the Upstairs, Lőrinc Mészáros, the man who made HUF 100 billion in a year. It is extremely serious, but if there is no press, and if you think that you will be able to divert attention from this with government propaganda, then you can hope, and partly rightly, that people will ignore it, only partially because we will say it, and that is why people do know about these things, and by the way, according to all polls, it is extremely disturbing for them. Government propaganda is corruption. Government propaganda could also be about useful things, and our bill allows government propaganda in certain cases. For example, why not an advertising campaign that calls for, say, the use of public transport or real health campaigns could be carried out calmly. But that's not what they're doing, so that's not what government propaganda is about. They claim that Hungary is growing stronger. If you think about it a little bit, you can see that it is more unnecessary to give something, billions to do so, it cannot be said, because Hungary is really getting stronger - I don't think so - but if it does get stronger, then why advertise it. What's gonna change that? Nothing's gonna change. If, on the other hand, it does not get stronger, as many people in this country think, it is certainly a matter of corruption. I have to repeat another metaphor - I apologize for the profan analogy - if Antal Rogán's propaganda magazine had gold bikes, they would be able to justify it, because they would say that he is doing propaganda so diligently that there is no time to go to the bathroom, but it would be clear to everyone that it is corruption, because they bought unnecessary things very dearly. When you advertise on thousands of posters that Hungary works and reforms are working and strengthening in Hungary, it is obvious that Antal Rogán bought such potions, because they clearly bought absolutely unnecessary things and bought them very expensively. Propaganda causes you three orgasms. Three orgasms. For the first time, when Antal Rogán's neighbor can be trusted with this, and he will feel very, very good about it, it will benefit him. The second is that they're gonna use this money to squash newspapers, TVs that no one would really watch, but this money will keep you up. It's the second orgasm. And the third is when they see that brainwashing works for a while. You can see that brainwashing works for a while, but you can also see from the surveys that people are extremely disturbed by the series of thefts that were the biggest series of thefts in Hungarian history. On this basis, it must be said that this bill is a good direction. It's a good way to go. Seeing how much parties spend is a very important thing. But there are other techniques, we talked about that. One more small amendment should be added, for example, it could be combined with the amended proposal of the Civil Code when we look at your alibi organisation, the CÖF, and we look at the CÖF's public benefit report, and we see that you forgot to write which economic organizations gave you the few hundred million forints. If these three things were to be included, this could be a good bill, and this bill is, of course, unacceptable to the party. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-02-253	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Since I do not see an application for a two-minute comment, I will give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs first.
u2017-05-02-254	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The political culture of each country depends on many factors, but it can be said that it is the customs, Habittus and temperament of the given nation that determine this, to put it simply. The shapers of political culture are essentially the parties, who influence and shape it by their behaviour, by the means they use. Party political struggles take place on many scenes, in the media, during meetings with voters, on the posters of the streets, and in many cases here, within the walls of this house. It is in the fundamental interest of all actors, parties, civil society organisations and people to use fair means in these struggles. The use of naughty means undermines public confidence, and widespread lies cause terrible damage to society. We therefore have a great responsibility in how to express our political opinion, in what way we want to make our position known to others, especially voters. If we have nothing to say, if we cannot deliver a political message, then it is indeed a negative instrument if our political activity is to silence our political competitors and competitors. This activity is particularly harmful if we wish or wish to rug down an opinion that draws the attention of voters to the truth. The bill before us is an eloquent example of the fact that the parties of government seek to silence those who speak the truth about their dealings, to make impossible those who expose their lies, and to draw attention to real problems, by abusing their public authority. The question of posters is a momentary topical policy issue that the governing parties wish to settle with law in accordance with their short-term interests. This undermines democracy, endangers freedom of speech, and ridicules legislation. China produces slippers, you, my fellow Members of the Fidesz, are making laws. It will lead to a complete emptiness of legislation if we try to deal with daily, topical policy issues by law. Laws are not meant to cover the scandalous affairs of the leaders of the current governing parties. The truth must be told, we must take responsibility for our actions, especially political responsibility. Gradually, that's true of the governing parties. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I'm asking how long you want to assist in this circus, by the way. And if we ignore the specific bill here, then if my fellow Member Volner has been so kind and brought up the far-fetched story of HungaroControl Zrt., then let me translate a few more sentences to this undoubtedly very sensitive matter for you. [[19.00]] HungaroControl Zrt., which is a 100% state-owned company and responsible for air control in Hungary at the end of 2016, gave the Association for National Affairs Foundation a grant of HUF 320 million on 17 October 2016, the foundation behind which Viktor Orbán's civic circle, the forefather of all civil circles, the Alliance for Nationality Civic Circle. The leader of this is Tamás László, our pro-government colleague, who stood up at the third minute in the debate on this bill and left the Chamber, unfortunately, because we would really be interested in his opinion on this. The fact that the Association for the Nation has received an annual grant of HUF 20-30 million until 2011, and then after the change of government, it has jumped to HUF 60-80 million, it might be possible to swallow it, but the fact that a series of inaccessible decision-making mechanisms and the will of the voters give this organization HUF 320 million, which cannot be influenced by the public will, is far more than outrageous. By the way, I asked the competent ministry a written question, how do they feel about all this, when they wish, for example, to resign HungaroControl Zrt. its leaders responsible for the decision and when the Alliance for the Nation is called upon to send this 320 million forints back to where they belong, in the Hungarian budget, because, in our opinion, this money could have been a better place. Secretary General Major was trying to excuse the situation in his blundering reply. We know, by the way, that this is the foundation, and I'm sorry, HungaroControl Zrt. has a social responsibility programme. There's nothing wrong with that. In the case of large companies, this is eligible, it is the right thing to do. However, this social responsibility programme also requires the company to support, within this framework, objectives such as the promotion and promotion of air traffic, air transport or recultivation. Now that the Alliance for the Nation has all these goals and tasks to do with it, you may only know sorrow because we don't. What does the Alliance have to do with promoting air transport, to which, according to the Secretary of State's reply, this grant of 320 million forints should be used? We're really shocked at all of this. In his excellent contribution, my fellow Member Volner expressed his love for billions and how they built their Andy Vajna, Habony, propaganda empire, which consumes billions of people and consumes public money. You guys don't seem to bend over for the change, either, because this 320 million forints came in handy after all. They buy even smaller items, as HungaroControl Zrt. He gave a HUF 25 million grant to another Fidesz politician a thousand-related foundation, this is the Union of the Future Foundation, the leader of which is the young Titan, Tamás TARDI, leader of Fidelitas, who, by accident, became Vice-President of the Somogy County General Assembly. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Jesus Christ!]] These questions should be answered. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: And he only got 25 million? Poor kid.]] If we are talking about hidden party financing, then that's right, he was modest, and he paid 25 million forints, although I would add that he had already received 8 million forints from Szerencsejág Zrt., so the millions are gathering here, which, according to the paper form, his foundation will certainly use for noble purposes. On this basis, however, it would be possible to call upon the people of the country, Uncle Jozsi, Aunt Mary, to create such foundations, and then the Fidesz government will give you 8 million, 25 million, or, if so, 320 million forints. Let's not joke. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, as a member of Somogy County, I was forced to present this local example. A lot of NGOs and a lot of foundations would have been happy with an award this big, as big as what Tamás Tardi's foundation received from this 100% state company. It's outrageous, it's unacceptable, and Jobbik will say no to all of this naturally in a way that you guys keep rubbing our noses in, that if you don't like something, if we're going to cause lawlessness, then let's press charges. I'm reporting that I filed a complaint, particularly against an unidentified unsub in a high-value misdemeanor. They will be surprised at the outcome of this complaint: they rejected it. Well, no comment. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-02-255	I now give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény.
u2017-05-02-256	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Although I wanted to talk longer, but since my fellow Members are waiting for comments after the agenda, I will try to shorten it. [[Anita Herring: Take your time.]] But alive with the freedom of thought, I'd like to do a little bit of debauchery. If we look at the bill before us and its title, I would think that in a normal country, in a normal democracy - we know that ours is not, but in a normal country, with such a theoretical perspective - perhaps making campaign funding more obvious and more transparent would be a welcome goal. If this is translated into our country, then I think I see that the governing parties are endowed in all sorts of ways and by all kinds of means, and otherwise, with the current bill, they are trying to create a kind of difficulty for the parties that are running for elections. But many of my fellow Members have already touched on a lot of topics here in their speeches, such as Congressman Volner said that this could be the lex Simicska. I don't want to, let's just say, deal with this topicality right now, but I'd like to add that it could be. About the placement of billboards and the ownership of billboards, let's say, by operational or objective means or even administrative means the government has made the advertising market impossible, we could list examples from the last few years for a very long time. I should also add that if we were to talk about making campaign funding transparent, it would be very interesting for me, for example, what would my fellow members of the government think of the CF during this period. This is the organisation, and I wouldn't argue with my fellow Member Volner here, but he said that the posters and advertisements of the CF contain stupid things. I'd like to shade this picture a little bit. I think from capital bullshit to obvious populist voices and images, there's a lot going on with the COF. In any case, regarding the financing of this CF, the president of the CF admitted himself that they had received hundreds of millions of forints from Fidesz or Fidesz-related organizations in recent years, of course we know that they can name the child many times. But the point is that this particular COF, which is doing the campaign that they should be doing instead of the government or Fidesz, should only be made completely transparent then, well, this COF has been sapphirungated by you. The COF which, for example, tried to go out to Brussels and then protested there. For example, what source and funding they managed to solve this, it would be worth a mass as to how it was done. As I said, making campaign funding transparent would be a welcome thing, as we should be honest, and, of course, I could understand ourselves, the Hungarian Socialist Party, that in the campaigns of the past 20-25 years, we have heard many stories about how a campaign funding came together. [[19.10]] I would add that, for the 2018 campaign, the - let's say - at least transparent or at least questionable thing is that, for example, an individual representative will be able to spend one million forints on his campaign, it would be very, very difficult to hold, and I can say this from experience. So we could talk about that, but that's not the purpose of this bill, and I'm aware of that. Here, overall, the segment of the media market, which has already been grinded by the ruling parties, which is still, let's just say, relatively independent, is to be grinded up even further. The opposition representatives before me have argued quite long enough about what has happened to the media market and the media in recent times. We regard it as a toaster, by the way, and I think that the media that are independent of the government, or do not do propaganda according to the taste of the government, have suffered in this governmental counterwind; unfortunately, I think they will in the future, even more. If that can be said, I look forward to it - I do not look forward to it, of course, but rather want it not to happen - the legislative agenda that will be before us in the next half-year. I am curious to see what creativity the Fidesz will show, and what creative ideas it will use to grind and subdue these relatively independent media segments. Obviously, in building an illiberal state, they have learned that the press must be completely controlled, that the press products must be completely controlled. Anyone who doesn't push our cart, who doesn't talk about the right things for us, who reports them through different means, in different ways, will make it impossible or at least difficult for the government to put them in a position. So, I'm still curious to see what new laws are going to be put in place on this. I hope these aren't born, but unfortunately, I've already lost my idealism. With this statement at the end of the year, thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2017-05-02-257	Thank you. There seems to be no further intention of commenting. The general debate is therefore closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Yes.]] Congressman Répássy Robert says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-05-02-258	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your contribution to the debate. There has been a very interesting debate, primarily on the current state of the press, which is only partly related to the subject of this bill. It is very remotely linked; if political advertising is one of the means of political communication, that is not disputed. But I think that those who dealt with the subject matter of the law spoke more highly of the bill. Several found that this bill would be good, that under other circumstances they might support it and the rest. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew: That's not what we said! We said it was a good title!]] Then there were several stories about how people saw the current political situation. I'm sorry to say this, but listening to you, I felt that the opposition's state of mind was reflected in the speeches. [[Anita Heringes: The state of the country, the state of the media!]] The state of mind of the opposition is essentially reflected in frustration. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Don't worry about it. Anita Bering: The frustration is on you! Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] The opposition seems to be unable to provide a realistic alternative to the ruling parties, so it blames the press. Everyone who agrees with the government is a propagandaist, that is what the opposition claims simply because they still do not feel that they are supported by a sufficient electorate. So about a frustration phenomenon... [[Anita Herring: Next year! Dániel Z. Carpathian: Why didn't you dare tell me so far? Why are you scared?]] It's a mere frustration, and I've heard nothing from you but how sad they are. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Why were you afraid to say this in the debate?]] The speaker of the LMP was Mr Hadházy, who gave the most eloquent example of how sad it was that there was so much going on in this country that he thought it would cause a turning away from the ruling parties, but unfortunately, this breakthrough has still not been successful, and therefore, Mr Hadházy is very sad. Obviously, that's why his party couldn't even get above the threshold yet. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: For 800 million I would write that you are good!]] According to the polls. So I am very sorry for this frustration, and frankly, I can understand it, because I have also been an opposition representative for a long time. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew: You will be!]] But I can only encourage you to never blame the press for not being able to collect more voters. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély: Ah, no! Anita Beringes: Habony-media, Vajna-media! The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Instead, try to pursue a policy that is sympathetic to voters. Try not to yell, but to reason nicely. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: You can't have it!]] Speak clearly and clearly, because yelling clearly can't attract voters. The bill contains a clear, reasonable rule. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Sure!]] Rather, they should have talked about why they could not support this clear and reasonable rule. Why can't you support the clear rule that from now on everyone can advertise on advertising platforms on equal terms? [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Except Fidesz!]] Why can't they support equal opportunities in advertising in the election campaign? What is your downside? I don't see him hurting the opposition. It's against this bill. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: It does not offend us, but the Hungarian citizens!]] I think that if the opposition were wiser, it would be in your particular interest to support such a bill, because what you have challenged about the press relations in Hungary will not change if this bill is rejected. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Why didn't you dare say so in the debate?]] They won't be able to campaign on a level playing field if they don't vote for this bill. Obviously you know it, because party funding has been working with these rules for a long time, that the funding of parties depends essentially on the parliamentary rates, the proportion of voters who voted for your party. Smaller parties, opposition parties, are given less state support and can advertise less. What is your problem with coming up with a proposal that says that everyone should be able to advertise equally, with the same odds [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: equal!]] With equal odds? I honestly don't understand why this bill is being swept off the table. [[Anita Bering: If you had been brave, you wouldn't have responded in the closing word!]] I didn't refer to Amnesty International for a reason, in case it makes you like this proposal right now. [[Dr. László György Lukács: And he didn't!]] That the government didn't say that, but Amnesty said that such rules should be introduced. Dear House, So I would very much ask you to consider supporting the bill. It is also in your interest to make campaign funding, party funding clearer, and it is also in your interest to reduce corruption, and it is also in your interest to run for the elections on an equal footing. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: We decide for you, not against you!]] I ask you to contribute to the amendment of the fundamental laws. Thank you so much for listening. [[Dr. Pál Völner applauds.]]
u2017-05-02-259	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Ms Anita Heringes asked to speak with her address after 1 May. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-05-02-260	Thank you very much for the floor. Before I begin to speak after the agenda, I must respond because [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: But it can't be according to the house rules!]] My fellow Member, Róbert Répássy, tried to answer our points in the closet. I think it's a temperamental act of courage. [[Dr. István Józsa: Sneakiness!]] They say it's appropriate to take part in a debate if you believe what you're saying. You can have moderate faith in him if you are only shy to speak and insult the fellow Members who are sitting here. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew applauds.]] Somehow, your fellow Members weren't in the room. But then let's go...
u2017-05-02-261	Please get to the point.
u2017-05-02-262	Let's move on to May 1st and the holiday of work. On this day, May 1, 1886, the Chicago workers' unions organized a strike for the eight-hour hours. The Day of 1 May was fought out by the international labor movement. In most countries, it is an official public day off to commemorate the economic and social achievements achieved by workers. In 1955, the Roman Catholic Church also joined the world's workers when XII. Pope Pius declared May 1 as the Memorial Day of St. Joseph the Worker, and thus the 1st of May became a Catholic holiday. We should celebrate here and now; celebrate freedoms, equal opportunities, solidarity, peace of work, people living on wages and salaries who, if necessary, have rebuilt Hungary with their own two hands several times. [[19.20]] They deserve respect and respect! Unfortunately, however, the joy of the holiday cannot be cloudless, since the current government has been creating worse working conditions for workers for many long years, and the world of work is increasingly unpredictable and uncertain. The government is breaking down the interests of workers, the rules and institutions that ensure the functioning of trade unions. One of the sad news of this May 1 is the amendment of the code of work submitted by Erik Bánki Fidesz and withdrawn under interesting circumstances. As is well known, the Fidesz President of the Economic Commission of the Hungarian Parliament, Erik Bánki, submitted an amendment to the Labour Code on 11 April 2017, which caused a great uproar among employees' organisations. In essence, the draft law proposes substantive changes on two points - the extension of the working time limit and the possible withdrawal of overtime. The proposal was withdrawn as quickly as it was presented as a result of the great uproar. Thus, thanks to the action of employees and opposition, Fidesz also withdrew the slave law in 14 days. If we look back on the government of the past two years, and even two government cycles, then we have little reason to be happy, which would mean the development of workers' rights, the creation of predictable and safe working conditions or even the strengthening of the situation of trade unions. Without the need for completeness, some government measures need to be highlighted from the countless that the government has taken against employees. Despite the significant will of trade unions and workers, the government put in place a new code of work to create the servant law and gave employers almost unlimited freedom to exploit. At the same time, it has made trade unions almost impossible to operate. But this is not the end of the abuse and draining of workers, as the occupational safety and safety institutions have also been significantly weakened. On the other hand, the Hungarian Socialist Party has sought and intends to create a substantive and real system of social dialogue, where workers together with trade unions will be able to make the decisions that truly serve the interests of workers; the basis for a decent and safe living, so that no one feels vulnerable to power, everyone has enough salary to make a living; the basis for the new labour code, which ensures workers' rights and strengthens the economy, so that more and more people can work; the new professional and adult education system, so that more and better prepared craftsmen can work in Hungary; the strong system of labour protection and safety to protect workers, so that everyone can be dealt with and no abuse in the world of work as described in the laws. The MSZP wants to achieve the creation and protection of workers' rights and decent living, and it wants to help achieve this by all means available. So the voters only have one more task: to vote in favour of the new MSZP government. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-02-263	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát applied for a post-meeting speech: the legacy of Ferenc Puskás. It's an address. I would like to inform you that, at last week's meeting, the House Committee presented an application for an illustration in order to present a cheerleading scarf in its speech. The Speaker of Parliament authorized the illustration. I give the floor to the congressman.
u2017-05-02-264	Mr President, Dear House, In the midst of most unworthy events, we must commemorate the 90th anniversary of the birth of this outstanding Hungarian footballer, Ferenc Puskás, instead of those who would have a wealth of resources in their hands at government level in order to cultivate the heritage that is worldwide in a dignified manner. At the moment, four rounds before the end of the tournament, the Hungarian club of Ferenc Puskás, who has one of the lowest budgets, will lead the tournament, while the politician, the current governing parties and their leaders will try to take over all positions, and will appoint leaders to lead the clubs. It is quite rude and quite clear that even at the funeral, Ferenc Puskás' only domestic club was left out of the memorial committee to which this team was later invited, and Pushkas was buried in the Basilica by repeatedly denying his own Honvéd fans to pay their respects, so this resting place could not become a pilgrim's place that our greatness still deserves to this day. In the meantime, fans are told not to take politics to the stadium, while at most clubs pro-government politicians sit in the leadership seats, Mezőkövesden Tállai, MTK Deutsch, and Gábor Kubatov, who gained a position at Ferencváros, can give examples. If we look at the Hungarian second class, we also see that the first two places are occupied by Kisvárda, which is very nicely stuffed with tao money; I say this in part as Szabolcsi. I sympathize with Kisvárda, but not necessarily with the abuses and actions that take place around football teams with political participation. You feel a little like Fidesz-KDNP got tired of FIFA or football manager, and you want to have matches with real clubs and real players that not only provide positive and generational experiences for generations, but they are not negligible for the people's soul. Meanwhile, they're trying to criminalize the fans by using the vein scanner and other bullshit nonsense, setting up a situation and painting a picture like these people are common criminals. On the other hand, the fact is that most of us are, obviously, honest, working Hungarian citizens who pay taxes. Therefore, there is no basis and legal basis for their exclusion, if any, from stadiums. Meanwhile, the legacy of Ferenc Puskás should be cherished. It is the only player in the world who scored a goal in the world championship, European Championship, European Championship Championship and World Cup Finals. At the same time, this legacy was practically tried to be stolen by politics with a Fidesz-KDNP background and to go uphill. There were times when the Molino of the Honvéd Camp, which represented the portrait of Gunner, was tried to be removed. And the Slope, stuffed with tao money, which was nowhere before 2010, and perhaps it can also be said that Ferenc Puskás himself did not know where this settlement was, in fact he was trying to prevent everyone else from caring for the memory of the greatest Hungarian football player. If I could sum up the situation briefly, politics is disgustingly affecting sport. Not only football, of course, but perhaps it would be best if politics got away from the Hungarian football area. I myself am a simple cheerleader, I was, I stay, and I think that this is the maximum state that a politician should be near football. It should be quite simply incompatible with the abuse we are experiencing, while the highest level of politics is, in my view, interfered, and not only with the submission of a judge, the exchange of judges, but they literally manipulate the outcome of the national championship. At the moment, the favourite teams of big politicians are being put in position, both in terms of filling with state money and creating a corporate background. It is clear that the favorite teams of current political leaders will be included in the international cups. And we have to say, under these circumstances, we don't need modern football. We need what Hungarians have been a fan of for decades, and with which Ferenc Puskás has been able to improve the reputation of Hungarians more effectively than anyone else in the world. That's why I say only Kispest forever, let's go red-black! Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-02-265	Thank you. Mr Ander Balázs applied for a speech after the next agenda:. Slaves at the holiday of the work. The title is given below. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-05-02-266	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, May 1st out like this, who celebrated it that way. As we have learned from the sad reports of the news, Oláh Alejandro and probably, like him, the composer of the concept of honest work never met, for example, in Budapest, he stabbed a man in a Mayal or almost beat a man to death with viper and boxers. I myself took part in the Mayal of the City Park, where the Cooperation Forum of Trade Unions and the Association of Intelligence organised a political discussion forum. This is what I told you, on which I gave the Jobbik's position, which, by the way, here today, Dömötör, Secretary of State, wanted to make up with a massive lie as if Jobbik had been virtually colliding with the Balliberal forces. [[19.30]] Obviously, that's not the case. I can't help it if the Fidesz has ruined accountability so much that the Gy sitting behind me every once in a while. Unfortunately, Ferenc did not become an inmate, and therefore he was able to express his opinion on the Mayal. Well, that's that. However, what was said there, and what should have been experienced firsthand either by the Secretary of State or one of the party barons of the popular Fidesz faction wearing a tight suit, if they had the courage to show their image and listen to the complaints of Hungarian workers, was nothing more than what would happen to workers with jobs with increased risk of health damage. It would have been a question of what they could have faced there, for example, with their rights in the earlier, but then abolished, age reduction system. Then, for example, Mr. Secretary of State could have gathered information on why this code of labor, which reminds the slave law, should be thrown into the trash with a noble simplicity, rather than unfolding here, based on the ideas of Erik Bánki and, fortunately, his ideas fallen into a well. Then he could have learned why the strike law, which now, as it stands, paralyzes workers' hands and the right of interest representatives to stand up as fighters, should be changed. Just as any Fidesz-KDNP representative could have learned if he were to get tired of such a union mayal, what meaningful dialogue would be about. What they are sabotaging for the seventh year, which, by the way, requires no paragraphs, no laws, but simply, simply a political culture, so that those exercising government power can sit down with trade unions, employees' representatives, and discuss things there that should be discussed in this form. Otherwise, they could have faced the poor state of the public sector. They could have faced the fact that 200,000 people working in the public sector have not received a wage increase since 2008, despite all kinds of Fidesz freedom fights. Indeed, the IMF's conditions that the Gyurcsányek and Bajnai had with the IMF were still in existence and in many cases had an impact. Any government representative could have faced the fact that Jobbik is thinking about a completely different paradigm. We really believe that the main organizing power of society is work. And if this country is not governed by careful hands, the government is not working well, then this job could lose its honor. But if the job loses its honor, then the pillars of society are shaken. In Hungary, many workers do not feel the material and moral appreciation they otherwise deserve. The same neoliberal socio-economic philosophy is also taking place under the Fidesz administration, despite all kinds of vocal voices, as the false left has achieved, namely, the fact that Hungarian workers in Hungary are not entitled to any rights and benefits in Hungary, which, according to OECD studies, is one of the most of the OECD states, would certainly have a fundamental right. Thank you for your attention. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right. Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-02-267	Thank you. After the last agenda, Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély applied for a speech entitled: "On current affairs." You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-05-02-268	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member, Mr Heringes, and the speakers before me, spoke about the celebration of the work in their speeches after the agenda. I would draw attention to a next holiday, perhaps the most beautiful and most important holiday of the year, the first Sunday of May, Mother's Day. Perhaps we can say that Christmas is the most important and the most loving holiday, and our other holiday is Christmas. The celebration of mothers goes back to ancient Greece. Even in ancient times, the Greeks celebrated their mothers. But now some statements about the Hungarian Youth Red Cross held the first holiday in Hungary in 1925 in conjunction with the traditions of the May Mária cult. In 1928 this holiday was already included in the official school holidays by a ministerial decree. Pálné Petri, the wife of a secretary of state from America, and the first Mother's Day celebration on 8 March 1925 was considered working children at the MÁV Machine Factory. The idea was embraced by the leaders of the Hungarian Youth Red Cross, and preparations were made for the nationwide introduction of Mother's Day. Then the institutions were asked to keep Mother's Day properly in local educational institutions with respect for mothers and to celebrate mothers. I think there's less and less talk when you look at the last few years, about these holidays inside the walls of this house. In fact, in recent years, pro-government politicians have not seen much mention of women's day or mother's day. Although I would like to add that after Sunday, we will be sure to hear some nice thoughts next Monday, on the B-week parliamentary day, and then we will hear again from the propaganda industry what kind of family support system has been established over the last seven years, let me add a few thoughts to this. I always say that maybe one of the government's success indicators is how many children are born in a year. Now, looking at recent years, we find that the government could not have been a great success in this area. Although it can be said that in 2011, when we experienced unprecedented depths in relation to how many children were born, 88 thousand children were born in 2011, the Orbán government could succeed in raising the birth rate to 93 thousand in 2016. I would add that we could say that this may be a success, because every child born in Hungary must be happy. But since then, we know that these calculations, these data, include children born abroad. I have already told you once today that one in six children see the light of day abroad and see the first moments of their life. We can also assume that they will not grow up in this country, because their parents will not return home. Now, I'm referring to the data of a opposition party because they requested these data, and it turns out that about 11 to 12 thousand children are registered abroad. And if that is true, although the Secretary of State, Mr Rétvári, denied me a question the other day, but what was published on official data request is factually stated that children who are registered abroad are now included, as are those registered as employees abroad, in the data of the HCSO. If we draw these figures, we can see that there are barely more than 80,000 children born in Hungary. And if it is possible to say that this government has many sins in its eyes, but it can be said that it will be one of the biggest sins of the last 8 years that it has driven young people away from Hungary, and the biggest problem is now, it can be said that there are not so many children born in Hungary for economic reasons, but because a large number of women of childbearing age are abroad. And here I say again that every government should appreciate women because women become mothers, and only mothers can give our country the rise that children and I can give to this country. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-05-02-269	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. I'm closing this meeting. [[Meeting ended at 7:39 p.m.]]
