u2017-10-16-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 9th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Today, Bertalan Tóth, Head of the Group, MSZP Group, applied for a speech before the agenda: It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2017-10-16-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Tomorrow will be 25 years since the UN General Assembly has declared 17 October a day for combating poverty. This day is about the need to eradicate poverty and poverty, which is what it draws attention to, the fight that apparently does not interest Fidesz. For we can remember the words of John Lazarus, who said: "He who has nothing is worth so much. Because the current Prime Minister, as a kind of Don Quixote - or Sancho Panza - is struggling with his own imaginary demons: Brussels, Soros, nihilists, communists, alpinists, cyclists, Strong Pistas - we can no longer really follow. These matters are so pointless that even your group leader, Gergely Gulyás, cannot defend their hate campaign called national consultation, and two of their illustrious former ministers, János Martonyi and István Stumpf, criticize the government, and even Tibor Navracsics, your former leader, denies the allegations that are contained in the consultation. These stupid and completely meaningless cases were spent more than a hundred billion forints in the past seven and a half years with your non-strout backgrounds, including Antal Rogán's neighbor, while less tax forints have been spent on health, education, welfare or social expenses. Ladies and gentlemen, If anything makes sense, it's the fight against poverty. But not in the sense that you do so, that you are thinking about the wealth of your own family - as you can see now that the plan for the Orbán family is being developed. Because the family members of the state-organized Mafia network aren't poor. Everyone sees exactly the life of the Urizing Fidesz elite, their desire for helicoptering, the robbing of EU money, we see Roland Mengyi, György Simonka, Florian Wolf, we see hypocrisy and rags. But we also see that the government of the privileged has deepened the differences in Hungarian society over the last eight years. He gave more to people who have more than one anyway. Destroying the pension system, draining private pension funds, taking away the possibility of early retirement, eliminating disability pensions hundreds people's financial situation has been made impossible, their income situation has been undermined. Family support gives more to people who have more. It is not by accident that economists, sociologists, workers talk about poverty, child poverty, youth unemployment, housing crisis, the destruction of education, the tragic health situation - but I could also mention the vulnerability of people with disabilities - or the poor, abandoned elderly people. Ladies and gentlemen, That's why we're telling you to do justice. You have to go in 2018, because you put a thousand families on the street every month. A hundred thousand families can't pay their mortgage. Since 2010, neither the family allowance nor the minimum pension has increased by a penny. Mr. Mészáros is not a stróman. Lőrinc has 11 million HUF per hour - even if he is asleep - while nurses and teachers are unable to make a living on their salaries. They lifted the minimum wage tax and gave it to the rich. A million Hungarians can't heat their apartments. Two million Hungarians have debts. Over half of two million pensioners receive a pension below 100,000 forints. Hungarian people need a safe livelihood, a fair Hungary. Children, young people, adults, elderly people. That is why justice will be done in 2018. We're gonna get justice on pay, we're gonna cut the minimum wage tax. We will bring about justice in the area of pensions, double the pension minimum, catch up with pensions below 100,000 forints. We do justice in energy bills, we cut gas bills for small consumers by a third, and we don't let single old people freeze in unheated homes. For our future together, for a just Hungary! Thank you for your attention.
u2017-10-16-2	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-16-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Even today, the question of immigration has not been missed by the left when the Member compared the danger which lies in Hungary and Europe in the same way to Mr Pista Erős and similar serious things. [[Zoltán Grimlock: There is no Soros plan, you know that, don't you?]] It seems that despite the result of the German elections, despite the result of the Austrian elections, the MSZP does not notice this and continues to play a ball with this whole issue. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] In the past centuries, there have been many instances that Hungarians may have conducted a labanc policy, but that the Labancs should start to pursue a Kuruc policy, and that there will be a clear political turn in an Austrian election, in which, it seems, the Austrians will make more proposals from the Hungarian position after the election, there has not been an example in history, for the curucification of the Labancs, but the MSZP does not notice this, but goes further on the path that it has already followed, and has bypassed immigration, it has not protected Hungary. Honourable Congressman, Speaking of social sensitivity in the Socialist Party, during which time, when it was necessary to decide whether the government was on the side of people with little money or multinational companies, the Socialist Government has always served the interests of large companies and has never taken into account the situation of people who are socially excluded or in difficulty; I think it is clear that the socialists have always taken into account the interests of large companies. [[13.10]] That's why Zsuzsa Ferge told us about you. [[Lajos Korózs: Aunt Zsuzsa may be wrong.]] not a right-wing political scientist, not a right-wing professional, Zsuzsa Ferge; a literal quote about the Hungarian Socialist Party. In 2008 Hungary was the only state affected by the crisis, which didn't cross anything, nothing at all, not a single straw in order for something to happen to the obvious losers of the crisis. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Was there a crisis? You've always denied it.]] Such a country has not yet had one, at least everywhere the unemployment benefit or relief or something else has been extended. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Zoltán Grimlock: How much did you get then, how many months? How many months is unemployment benefit now?]] Honourable Congressman, Dear Chief of Staff, Zsuzsa Ferge has issued a certificate of your social sensitivity, and this certificate is a failure. Two years later, the Hungarian electorate said the same thing. What they say in the next election, we'll see exactly what they say. When you were in a position to decide whether or not to increase the profits of foreign multinational companies in fees, or to try to take it back, and people are trying to secure a more guaranteed, lower price, you're always on the side of foreign companies. [[Noise, interruptions in the ranks of the MSZP.]] That's why they doubled the price of electricity, and they tripled the price of gas because you sided with the multi-enterprises every single decision. When you said that the economy was in a difficult situation, you said that you had to take from Hungarian pensioners a month's pension, you took from all civil servants a month's wages, you didn't take from the multinational companies the profits guaranteed by law that were guaranteed to these companies at the time of the privatisation of the Horn government. So they told pensioners to take part in the difficulties, cancel; they didn't really resign, they took a month's pension from them, but they didn't take one forint's profit from the multinational companies, they just allowed them to raise their rent to the sky, thus ripping off Hungarian small-money people. You have taken a month's pension, we have raised pension by 23 percent in recent years, which is a 10% increase in purchasing value. You took a month's wages, we started careers for teachers, health workers, people working in district offices, professional staff. When you had to decide that it was in the interests of large companies to reduce the minimum wage or to represent the interests of people with little money, you always represented the interests of large companies because they artificially kept the minimum wage low. It wasn't increased by HUF 3 000 per year on average, while Fidesz-KDNP raised the minimum wage from HUF 73 500 to HUF 138 thousand, which is an 88 percent increase, while the minimum wage for skilled workers was increased by 101.7 percent. In the area of health, honourable Member, do not forget that in your last years you have withdrawn hundreds of billions of forints from health care, we have taken over the Health Insurance Fund under HUF 1500 billion, and next year the amount of the Health Insurance Fund will be over HUF 2000 billion, so we can spend more money on the treatment of patients. And we spend 552 billion more on education next year than we spent in 2010. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And then I could have talked about the visitation fee, the daily allowance, and the tuition fees, which must have been the indicators of your social sensitivity. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-16-4	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group also applied for a speech before the agenda. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-16-5	Mr President, Dear House, Yesterday, Ferenczi Gábor Jobbikos was once again elected mayor of Devecser, with a 69 percent majority. Again, it became clear that there is only one challenger in Hungary today, who can overthrow the Orbán government. It's about the Jobbik. [[Noise from the ranks of the governing parties.]] And the only candidate who can replace Viktor Orbán is Gábor Vona, clearly. It is also obvious that in their response you will try to dull the event I have mentioned with the result of another interim election. It is quite clear that there are different party preferences in different regions of the country, the only problem is that you, through the Habony Media, try to paint the image that only the Fidesz can operate, campaign, govern, run, publish public procurement anywhere, destroy, ban, block, take your support, send the authorities to it - this is your current political mentality. Instead of programme-based debates, you believe only in bulldozer, because your arguments have run out in many respects and on many issues. It can be seen that before the Devecser election, the government-wide portal Pestisracok threw a lie cunam into the public, which spoke of political chaos in Devecser's case, the Jobbik's possible collapse, and then came an almost 70 percent better win, and a triumph, after which, obviously, the former articles intended for debauchery may have vanished from the public. What we see is that while a challenger is outlined in Hungarian political life, programme-based debates are not really taking place. So when Jobbik raises the need for a rental program, the mitigating conditions of the 27 percent VAT level, the brutally overtaxed Hungarian economy, and, where appropriate, how to breathe life into this economy, there will be no professional responses, only ratings - even from the Prime Minister's level - at such a low level, which is shameful and amazing in terms of the Hungarian politics of the last 27 years. We also see that Fidesz has largely abolished the freedom of the press. In part, independent bodies also assisted, as there was the GVH, which, say, raised any objections to the intentions of the RTL Club, which I had not yet protected, and, in the case of property acquisitions of Vajna, or in the case of the plowing up of the county paper market, did not raise any objections and sat silently. Then comes the Court of Auditors, the head of a former Fidesz potenta, which, in fact, has been operating in the last few weeks as part of the Fidesz home-worker's department or press department, as it has noticed itself with Bolshevik-sounding announcements which have been published in the 21st century. In the century, they may be thinning their mates. And we can say that the methods of dictatorship are indeed applied only by dictatorships, and you have come to the point that, from the Court of Auditors, by subtracting countless other independent bodies and by betraying their professional work, forcing them to play a political role, they are actually trying to eliminate any opposing ideas, including those with a better purpose. We see that the Orbán Plan works perfectly in this regard, attacking and restricting freedom of the press not only in the county paper market, but also within the entire media, there is an extension of autocracy, while the former criminals, say, the economic criminals of the Gyurcsány or Bajnai era, have not been accounted for by you. Backwards, they weren't as tough as they're trying to toughen up government positions right now. At the same time, we can see that while the SAO, acting as the press department of Fidesz, refuses to cooperate with the Jobbik, who has, and will have, the full cooperation obligation, the pretexts are created in a way that quotes the 1950s. Based on this, the D.A. can open an investigation into Jobbik, and although the verdict is still missing, it may already be written in the government books, and the sentence that, if appropriate, may go until Jobbik's state aid is withdrawn. [[13.20]] While the reality shows that thousands of families are being evicted in Hungary during your regency, you do not have a professional response to this, let your executive overreach, two weeks ago, a claim of $33 million out of a $5 million loan. Under your guidance - [[Towards the benches of Fidesz:]] Don't point to that, because your government allowed this to extend - they don't have any modern professional answers. However, Jobbik is still trying to run a program-based campaign. As regards evictions, I would like to ask for a specific answer: Jobbik will once again organise the FX-credited Round Table this week, where we are waiting for representatives of the injured party and representatives of the Government and the Banking Association to face those to whom these damages have been caused. The government representative has never come to this event before. The question is whether, at least on this level, they are professionally willing, dared to weigh themselves. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-16-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, He also applied for a speech before the agenda -- sorry, sorry. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond.
u2017-10-16-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm happy to answer because there's been a lot of talk. As far as foreign exchange lenders are concerned, the government has been assisting them in various ways since their entry into office, with end-payments, exchange barrier, setting up the National Asset Manager, forinting, bank settlement. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a significant part of these measures were not supported by Jobbik. Moreover, Jobbik is increasingly cooperating with the left that is responsible for the whole foreign exchange credit crisis. As regards the results of the interim elections: there were indeed several by-elections in several places yesterday, local elections in Hungary. I can recall the outcome of the election in Tata. Here the Fidesz candidate won high, and Jobbik finished in third place, and the Socialist candidate became second, even if he was behind by street length, and then he was awarded double as much votes as the betterman. But who the challenger is, discuss among yourselves whether Ferenc Gyurcsány is the challenger or another oligarch, who happens to have a party. The voters will decide who the challenger is. Honourable Congressman, Once again, we have heard a speech from Jobbik that any left-wing politician could have said. They could have told the LMPs, the MSZPs, the bands, any smaller left party. We talk a lot about the Balliberal turn of Jobbik here in this House, there are many examples, the attic is full, but let me also bring up a fresh story last week. Last week, two troops attacked the national consultation, one by the Helsinki Committee and the other by Jobbik. Well, that's where you got to. So we understand why your party president has asked for support in one of the liberal clubs in Budapest, where he said he would cooperate with anyone. Jobbik, along with the Helsinki Committee, is saying that there is no plan to be consulted. Practically immediately, they could make a coalition with those left-wing people who called immigration a fake problem - I look at Congresswoman Kunhalmi. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Because it is! The emigration should be stopped!]] - or those who denied quotas. This is confirmed by Congresswoman Kunhalmi. The fact that Jobbik is now attacking the consultation has serious precedents: they did not vote for the anti-quota fundamental law amendment, and Gábor Vona practically took the first 1,300 resettlement plan a year ago - he used that word as well. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: How many people came to Hungary with the settlement obligation?]] If Jobbik wants to question the points of the consultation, please tell me, Mr President, why the European Parliament is voting in a few days on a proposal on allocation and resettlement without a ceiling. Tell me why the current proposals in Brussels include reducing the EU's support and resources for countries that resist these proposals. And why are you voting in the European Parliament today about making family reunification easier for immigrants? The points in the consultation - I would like to say to you - are about plans that have been written and are included in legal robes, are presented, and now want to implement them. And you guys just deny it all. You're just wondering what the reason is. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] One possible scenario is that you, despite having MEPs in Brussels, have no idea what plans are being made there in Brussels. We can't rule that out, but we think there's a better scenario than that, which is that Jobbik is attacking the consultation out of pure desire for power, just because it was initiated by the government. In any case, it is sad to watch Jobbik become a sunflower party that always turns in the direction from which he hopes for a small piece of power, and this is now synonymous with going against the interests of Hungary. Honourable Congressman, There aren't enough party-president cat pictures to forget this unconceived policy and the hopeless situation of Jobbik. [[Ágnes Kun-halmi: Only a pink cat!]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-16-8	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, President Bernadett Szél also applied for a pre-meeting speech with the title "Reality" for the government's biggest enemy. You have the floor.
u2017-10-16-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I had the privilege of listening to the government debate with the MSZP and Jobbik, and I could observe that we could ask any question - poverty, housing, livelihoods - either you are in line or you are in Brussels. It is therefore very difficult to engage in meaningful dialogue with each other. But let me tell you something. When you call Fidesz on the MSZP and tell them that you've been messing with the multinationals and giving them different money and opportunities, just look in the mirror for a minute. The Fidesz did nothing but continue what the socialists began and perfected the whole story. As long as you have strategic agreements with companies that practically recreate the jobs that have already been created and corruption flows through the whole EU support mechanism here in Hungary, you should not respond to such things, because the thing is that they are laughing at themselves. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right!]] And I can suggest one thing about foreign exchange creditors: the next step is to hold the foreign exchange credit debate that we initiated, and I very much hope that everyone who feels like a opposition party will support this with his signature if he hasn't done it yet, because I think that hundreds of thousands of foreign exchange credentials are waiting for their cause to be discussed in this Parliament. A party that misses such a debate day is not credible and then stands up for foreign exchange credentials. Therefore, I respectfully ask all of us to put Fidesz and KDNP in a position where they can tell us, here in Parliament, exactly why they did it or didn't do it, why they haven't done it in the last seven years. But considering what I really want to talk about today, it's going a little back to last week. The Prime Minister was here, and I could ask him about the doubling of the number of hospital infections in Hungary, in which patients die. It has become clear to me that the Prime Minister simply refuses to acknowledge the real problems of the Hungarian people. I think he didn't understand exactly what I was talking about, and the whole area at all; he didn't seem to want to go into it. We are in a very special situation in Hungary. It has never been so true in this country that where we are born, it determines what fate awaits us. Tomorrow is the World Day for Combating Poverty, and I would like to draw attention to this fact and to what role the perverted state Fidesz-KDNP has built has played in this phenomenon. What's a perverted state? The fact that you finance the rich with the money of the poor. We know the government's position: a poor man is worth so much. And they did, and I could tell the statistics here: four fifths of people in this country have an unexpected expenditure problem, almost 3 million Hungarians live in houses that are soaking and watering and molding, and we also see that the premature mortality rate is almost twice the EU average. So we are about to die from being here in Hungary and you are ruling this country. That's what we're gonna end in April. It's not normal what's going on in this country, we can't live our country. Because if you work eight hours of honor in this country, I think you should be able to make a living on your wages. And if any of us get hurt, if we become disabled, then I think we need to get help from the state. You know, there's a truth: We're not gonna get enough with George Soros posters. You can't buy health care with Soros György posters. We can't buy our child winter shoes with George Soros posters. This is good for you only, who consider politics to be a gentleman's mischief, and they like to take care of things in their little clubs like men's lockers, and they practically don't care about what really matters, the Hungarian people. [[13.30]] This Parliament is the National Assembly of Hungarians. We're all sitting here on public money. It's terrible to hear that you're taking advantage of these people's time, money, patience, and you're always busy with your own things. We need a leader who has concrete ideas. We need a leader who can create excellent education in this country, give good wages and create a functioning health care system. In this case, Fidesz has qualified for zero out of three, and your government performance is zero out of three. This government destroyed and failed millions of people. The fact is that you can post 100,000 posters, send any number of national consultation letters, eat the entire Hungarian media, but you will not deceive these people. There are millions of people in this country who want a change of government and a change of direction, because they're tired of being used as extras by gentlemen in their own little pisslice games. I would like to assure these people of one thing that, for the next six months, both LMP and I will work every day to ensure that this can happen. We went on a long journey a few weeks ago. I'm sure this is the way of the winners, because I know reality, I live in reality, and reality is on our side.
u2017-10-16-10	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-16-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, The reality is that the Momentum is very at the corner of the LMP, so we must make a more radical sound here within the walls of Parliament. Sponsors are running low, LMP is not abundant in basic rural organizations, so here in Parliament, you may need to address someone in a more radical manner, perhaps a little bit of the MSZP voters. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Talk about people.]] He was immediately able to start with a gesture to the MSZP... [[Intercoms from the lines of LMP and MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] She immediately succeeded in starting her speech with a gesture to the MSZP. Surely, as Gábor Vona began courting the dwindling MSZP voters, the LMP may also trust that. There is one common point: Ron Werber - he obviously knew how to address the then MSZP voters in 2002; he is trying to do the same for LMP now, by 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It was disappointing for many people, not only in the LMP voting camp, but also outside the LMP voting camp, that you want to take Ron Werber's style with you in the campaign of 18th. You say that EU funds will be spent in a completely corrupt system, while our public procurement rules have been most rigorously reviewed in Brussels with a magnifying glass and have been found appropriate; while these subsidies have the logic to travel to German companies of around 40 percent. So you're saying that German companies are corrupt, because they're corruptly acquiring EU funds. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and What we regard as the most important argument in the fight against poverty is what Ronald Reagan, the most popular president of the United States of America, said: he believes that there is no better social agenda than job creation. We say the same thing as he did, and we are very proud that the Hungarian people were partners in this, and today 4.4 million people, 770 thousand more people work and pay taxes than the people who worked and paid taxes seven years ago. Show me another EU government that has been able to increase the number of people employed to this extent compared to the population. And show me a better proposal to fight poverty than job creation and tax cuts. We reduced taxes and increased the number of employees. These numbers are not growing on their own, honourable Member. This includes the action plan for the protection of jobs, including the reduction of red tape, the recovery of the economy, and other tax reduction measures that have also helped to provide hundreds of thousands more people with work. You have taken only one piece of data from your environment, how many people have and how many do not have funding for unexpected expenses in Hungary. But you've obviously been trained. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: George Soros.]] To make sure he doesn't tell us how many people had and how many didn't have it a few years ago. The number of those people in Hungary, you quoted the data, so you consider the 2015 data to be reliable, and if you believe it to be reliable, you will also have to keep the data of 12 reliable, and then, indeed, 2.5 million more people said that you do not have funds for unexpected expenditure than the data you quoted, honourable Member. The number of these people in 2012 was 7 million and 448 thousand, which has decreased to 5 million and 26 thousand in recent years. If you believe one piece of data, believe the other, and admit that the government's activity has improved by 2.5 million people who say they now have funding for an unexpected expense. Problems with credit repayment. From the same statistics you bought it from, Congresswoman, I took it out because you quoted it, so allow me to quote the same: while 2.6 million people had problems with loan repayments a few years ago, this has now fallen to 1.8 million. [[György Szilágyi: Then everything is all right, right?]] However, if we look at, honourable Member, how much more people can afford a two-week holiday, we can also see a very large increase, a million-dollar increase, in which obviously the Elizabeth programme, the Széchenyi rest card and other government measures have also helped. And tax cuts, and the fact that more and more people are working. Or, if you look at how many people have had problems, according to another line of statistics you're citing, to heat up your apartment properly, that was almost 1.5 million at the beginning of our government, and now it's only 887 thousand people. At this rate, there were hundreds of thousands, 600-700 thousand. [[Interviews from Jobbik and MSZP.]] What our task is, it is from these figures alone, you, honourable Member, have withheld in your speech that these numbers are not measured in one year, but are measured annually, and in each case, whether in the case of problems relating to credit repayment or housing, unexpected expenditure, consumption of meat dishes, heating or holiday, there has been a positive shift in all of them. Therefore, if someone votes for LMP, it threatens that this trend will continue and that these problems are becoming problems for fewer and fewer people. LMP is a risk compared to its tax lifting policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-16-12	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári, Member, has also applied for a speech before the agenda. We'll wait for him to take his place. [[It's happening. Dr. László Kács: I wouldn't be in the position of Minister Balog, because he will surely be cornered. Agnes Kunhalmi: We sit on needles.]] Dear Parliament, May I ask my fellow Members to do me a favor...? Thank you. So, Mr President, the subject of the statement by the Secretary of State, Mr Soros is attacking from Brussels, Hungary is helping on the spot. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Mr. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-10-16-13	Thank you very much. Before my fellow Members make their usual peepish remarks [[Interviews from Jobbik and MSZP.]] Allow me to say that I would like to talk about the people who are being persecuted worldwide for their faith and for whom Hungary held the first world conference. The first world conference to be organized by a state. [[More interruptions from Jobbik's ranks. Zoltán Balog: Take this seriously!]] Their threats, honourable Member, I have therefore heard; let us hope so. The fate of Eastern Christians is important to all of us because, on the one hand, it is a humane threshold, how much we can help them, how much we take into account their problems, and, on the other hand, a warning sign for all of us, because what is happening to Eastern Christians today may happen here in Europe in the next generation. We can see that many in Western Europe are deaf and blind to the problems of Eastern Christians, persecution there, executions, expulsions. They may be deaf and blind so that they can remain silent and do not have to act to protect Eastern Christians. Hungary's policy in this area can also be compared to a kind of pyramid. At the bottom of the pyramid, the widest part is border protection, security assurance, followed by the Hungarian Helps programme, which seeks to help all those in need of help all over the world; the pyramid has the closest ones to us and the most persecuted ones, the help of persecuted Christians. Everyone knows and knows that Hungary has been attacked from Brussels in order to relocate it under a mandatory quota of 1200 people. While this procedure was initiated and Hungary was brought to justice, they did not even notice or even want to take into account the fact that Hungary has provided housing for nearly a thousand families in the Middle East region, mainly Iraq and Lebanon. In cooperation with local actors, we rebuilt or built a house for a thousand families, and they were able to return. Last week, church leaders who were here in Budapest, Hungary, reported on these subsidies, reported on their implementation, and said that this was working, it was successful. [[13.40]] No Eastern church leader has asked us to deploy people from the Middle East to Europe by quota from the East to the Middle East. No one asked for a million people a year, no one asked for the legislation to be softened, no one asked for the fence to be demolished. All these people came from the crisis regions from which migration started, and none of them asked Europe to introduce a mass quota resettlement mechanism. But they thanked for the support of which they were able to give hope back to thousands of families - obviously thousands of people. Hungary has thus provided much more people with the possibility of starting life again in the last half-year, some social security, at least housing security, than the whole quota procedure is about Hungary. And while in the quota case it has been proven that the quota is inoperative, it has been proven that the construction of houses in Lebanon and Iraq, the reconstruction of a whole settlement, is working. This is an alternative to or in addition to mandatory quotas that provide real help in the short term. After all, Hungary has been able to achieve success in six months, which has already been confirmed by church leaders. Hungary did not participate in large international projects, but directly, I can also say that it sent these subsidies to those community leaders who are on the ground. This is why it works, which is why it is an innovation, because it is not realized in great international cooperation, but in direct support to local church leaders and has also helped thousands of families. According to various reports from the United Nations, or reports from the World Bank, there are about 3 billion people on Earth who have to make a living of less than $2 a day. They are considered the most widely classified poor. They have about 80 million children each year, with an increase of 80 million each year in the number of people living in extreme poverty worldwide. The deployment of one million people in Europe, the deployment of one million people in the US, for 98 percent of newborns living in poverty, gives no solution, no possibility at all. There is only one possibility: if we don't tell you how to help, we ask the people there, and they ask us for a policy of local help. If someone in the world wants to fight the persecution of Christianity and poverty, he will help you locally, as the Hungarian Helps in Hungary launches its own locally helping program, because this proved to Hungary in the last year, which was confirmed by the conference that we held in Budapest last week. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-16-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Minister Zoltán Balog wishes to respond to what has been said. I give the floor to Minister.
u2017-10-16-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I really did not understand the excitement in the opposition, because here I did not expect a polemic with my fellow Member, but not only because he is on the government side, but because there is consensus in this House, and I would like to start from it now, on this matter. I would remind you and the whole House of the parliamentary resolution adopted by the House with complete unanimity, and this resolution raises its word not only for the sake of persecuted Christians, but also, as a result, we call on the Hague Human Rights Court to consider all that is happening in this matter as an anti-humane crime. I also have good news for the opposition factions in this area that you were applauded at this conference, because when the Prime Minister said that there was little agreement in matters of importance in the Hungarian Parliament, but there was agreement in this matter, it was rewarded with applause after his speech, and it was rewarded by church leaders who, by the way, represented persecuted Christians at the conference. At the same time, it is worth asking again and again why this decisive action is necessary from the Hungarian side at all, why the Hungarian Parliament deals with this, why the government deals with this. I would like to draw attention to an important distinction here: we have never been so proud, the Hübris has never tempted us enough to say that we are defending Christianity in this matter. We defend the way of life, we defend the culture that comes from this Christianity, which Europe received from the Middle East, which is the cradle of Christianity. And it's an important warning that if we don't define ourselves, if we don't define our culture, our way of life as based on the Jewish-Christian culture, and the way we live comes from this, then others will define us differently. So when we support persecuted Christians when we pay attention to the Middle East, we do it for ourselves in this matter. And if a few things can be said about the way of life, then I would say three things: from Christianity, from Christian culture, there is the concept of democracy in which we live, which respects the opinions of others. It was a long learning process in the history of Christian churches, by the way, until we got to this point, and it is worth sticking to. The other point is the distinction between the state and the church, such as society and those involved in the life of the nation. This is why the Hungarian constitution is not separated, but that the state and the church operate separately, although we cooperate on community goals. The third is the relationship between the man and the woman, and the position and role of the society, which is also a matter, a concept, an approach to which we should stick to what other religions, including Islam, are, by the way. And indeed, as Congressman said, there were over 300 participants in this conference from four continents, more than 30 countries, who welcomed the statement in Budapest, which raises its voice for the persecuted, not just for Christians, but for all religious minorities. The concrete grants were also welcomed, especially the scholarship that we have just founded for persecuted Christian youths, I believe that three of them have also shown themselves in this matter. I can also say that there was a serious international response to the conference, 45 million visitors were also reported by an American public news portal, and everyone else. I would like to draw your attention, and I would also like to ask the Secretary of State or Member, who, in the organisation of the conference, has given a lion's share to make available to opposition groups the report in Budapest on the persecution of Christians in the world. In this case, it is worth uniting, and I ask the opposition factions that, once we have succeeded, we should stick to this and consider II. John Paul said that instead of the culture of death, the culture of life once again inspires Europe and the whole world. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-16-16	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Gulyás, Head of Group, Fidesz Group, has also applied for a pre-meeting speech:. Will the Government be entitled to freedom of expression? It's an address. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor.
u2017-10-16-17	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, yesterday there were two interim elections in Hungary, Devecser and Tata. In both places, we congratulate the winning mayor or congressman. What we can conclude is that Tatán has achieved the mandate by 64 percent of the votes in favour of the previous percentage, Zoltán Purgel, the candidate of Fidesz, and no doubt - Jobbik was proud of this in his speech before the agenda - it must be acknowledged that in an election Jobbik may also have a chance if the governing parties do not submit candidates. [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks. István Szávay: Sumákban! A round of applause from the ruling parties. Dániel Z. Carpathian: If you are so incredibly strong, why didn't you make a candidate?]] However, I would like to draw the attention of the right-wingers that, for the time being, the board decisions in Fidesz stand as a starting point for the elections in 2018, so this reduces the optimism that Jobbik's speech here has suggested to us, which seems almost self-absorbed. And since we have to face reality here, Mr Wind has referred to the fact that it is on the LMP's side that it is a pity that neither in Devecser nor in Tatán the electorate had the opportunity to do so, as the LMP has not put forward any candidates in any of the places. However, what also means the most important question and the point of my speech is that we must also discuss in Parliament whether the government is entitled to freedom of expression or not, whether the Hungarian Government should have freedom of expression. [[13.50]] After all, the Helsinki Commission, which has always advocated the most liberal interpretation of freedoms, has now brought a judicial action in order for the court to stop it, crush and terminate the questionnaire sent to the national consultation. Moreover, the Helsinki Commission does not even claim that there are false facts in this national consultation. You see that there are real facts, only they are falsely presented by the government, and that gives you reason to ask the court to suspend the national consultation. We believe that, just as we have never restricted the freedom of expression of the Helsinki Commission, this government is also entitled to a national consultation. We therefore find it totally unjustified that someone wants to limit the government's freedom of expression in this sense. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the situation in the European Parliament has not improved, but has deteriorated. It can be said that the European Parliament has already reached a level of denial that threatens the credibility of the body. If we can also ask LMP here as a respected member of the Green Party, so an esteemed member of the European Green Party, then please consult the colleague who is preparing a report against Hungary in order to initiate the procedure under Article 7 against Hungary. We understand that this procedure against Hungary has absolutely no basis at all. We also see that this is what the European Parliament has been trying to do for years. With all due respect, we ask the Hungarian Green Party to act on European greens so that a Tavares spree against Hungary will not take place again. What is even more dangerous is Dublin IV. a plan for amending the regulation, which would in practice establish a permanent transfer system without a ceiling. This would mean that any applicant for asylum in the territory of the European Union, i.e. a refugee who is not a recognised refugee, would automatically receive a transfer to another Member State in order to carry out the asylum procedure there. In addition, the plan would introduce a system of sanctions that would make it conditional on participation in compulsory relocation to allow a Member State to access the EU Structural Funds. We believe that adopting such a plan would lead to an impossible situation. There is no common immigration policy in the European Union, and the fact that a person submits an asylum application does not make him a refugee. After a decision will be taken in the LIBE Committee on Freedoms on 19 October, I would therefore like to ask the representatives of all opposition parties and the group leaders to act in order to vote in accordance with the Hungarian national position rejecting immigration, because otherwise, what they are saying here on immigration in Hungary is completely uncredited. Mr President, thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-16-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-16-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, You have said that some EU leaders are fighting reality, if I recall correctly, and at the same time some opposition leaders in Hungary are virtually giving each other the baton in order to deny out loud, to bludgeon the proposals contained in the national consultation. And they do, indeed, believe that these proposals are being put into practice in the Brussels institutions. Indeed, it is worth considering what is going on in the European Parliament these days, for example. A few days ago, for example, there was a vote in a commission in Brussels called the LIBE Committee. This is the Committee on Fundamental Rights; in this, a resolution has been adopted which would create a mandatory system for resettlement from outside Europe. There is a very serious element of this proposal, namely that if voluntary Member States' first offers were not to reach 20% of the global resettlement needs proposed by the UN, the European Commission could require Member States to be reaccepted. Then there is another proposal which would already distribute immigrants in Europe among the Member States; it would create a permanent system without a ceiling. The mandatory quota that we have talked about so much here, so the mandatory quota is alive and well; that is why it is also included in the consultation points. If this were not enough, this draft, which we are talking about in Brussels, would also facilitate family reunification: if an immigrant claims that he has a relative in a Member State, they would automatically deploy him there. I would also expand the concept of family. And then another shocking and risky element of this package of proposals: if a NGO, not a public body, but a NGO, is willing to help immigrants to be deployed in a given country, then they can eventually be deployed there. So Brussels would take important powers out of the hands of the Member States again. Dear House, The fact that Brussels would give serious powers to otherwise opaque NGOs with often opaque backgrounds will soon make it clear why some domestic organisations are so active against the consultation. In recent days, for example, the Helsinki Committee has sued the government and is demanding that the consultation sheets be crushed, the website turned off, and that the government finish this consultation, this dialogue, anyway. This is scandalous, because the organisation that regularly puts human rights and freedom of expression on its flag is trying to prevent dialogue and regularly tours in Brussels. We can also suggest to the Helsinki Commission that you look at what proposals the European Parliament is discussing these days. It negotiates the quota, namely the compulsory quota, the facilitation of family reunifications, and, moreover, a resettlement committee, which would be called a high-level resettlement committee, to re-take powers from the Member States. These facts prove that the issues of consultation are more topical than ever, which is why the government is determined to seek the opinion of the Hungarians and to take action against dangerous plans on this basis. If national organisations financed from abroad were to crush the consultation sheets, that is another reason to participate. If the Left denies individual proposals while otherwise voted silently in Brussels, that is another strong argument for participation. If Brussels were to put the resettlement back on the agenda and speed up the programme, it would be a reason enough for all Hungarian citizens to express their views. We are talking about scandalous proposals that we cannot leave behind, which is why the government is at the forefront of the debates. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-16-20	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I welcome Mrs Iliana Yotova, Vice-President and delegation of the Republic of Bulgaria, who is seated in the decorative box [[A big round of applause. Members of the delegation in the decorative box are standing up to thank you for your applause.]] Madam Vice President, Mr Musev Dancso, the president of the National Bulgarian Minority Municipality and the ethnic advocate Varga Simeon, are invited to stay in Hungary on the occasion of the opening of the events of the Hungarian-Bulgarian Friendship Day. On behalf of the Hungarian Parliament, we wish you successful negotiations and a pleasant stay for your stay in Hungary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the additional speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2017-10-16-21	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: István Ikotity, LMP; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik; Sebestyén Vágó, Jobbik; László Horváth, Fidesz. On Tuesday, the following representatives applied for the speech before the agenda: Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Lajos Rig, Jobbik; Ákos Hadházy, LMP; László Szászfalvi, KDNP; Zsolt Németh, Fidesz. No one came forward on Tuesdays and Wednesdays after the agenda. On Thursday, he applied for a speech after the agenda: István Ikotity, LMP; Zoltán Bóna, Fidesz.
u2017-10-16-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent a transcript of the appointment of new State Secretarys to the Parliament. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the transcript of the President of the Republic. [[14.00]]
u2017-10-16-23	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law, as well as the XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 52. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, pursuant to paragraph 2 of the Act, I have appointed István Horváth and Balázs Simon Róbert as State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office with effect from 11 October 2017. Budapest, 10 October 2017 Sincerely, János Áder. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] Paragraph 3 (j) and Section XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the government and State Secretarys. Law 52. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, pursuant to paragraph 2 of the Act, I have appointed István Horváth and Balázs Simon Róbert as State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office with effect from 11 October 2017. Budapest, 10 October 2017 Sincerely, János Áder. (Applause from the benches of the governing parties. )
u2017-10-16-24	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Allow me to congratulate Mr István Horváth and Mr Robert Balázs Simon on behalf of the Parliament and myself, and wish you every success in your work. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, The Government initiated an exceptional procedure for the National Assembly to discuss the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. Law 1 and CCIV 2011 on National Higher Education. XXV of 2017 amending Act No. T/1781 on the amendment of Act T/1781 Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Government has initiated the possibility of submitting amendments until the third hour after the decision on the exceptional procedure was taken. The joint debate shall take place as the first item on tomorrow's sitting, as well as the decision on the draft amending proposal and the final vote on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that more than half of the Members, i.e. a hundred Members, have to vote in favour in order to order an exceptional procedure. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for decision-making. I'm asking you if T/17819 is accepted. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in exceptional proceedings by 128 votes in favour, 20 votes in favour and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted at 5 p.m. today. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the amendments to the agenda. The Fidesz Group suggested that the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. Law 1 and CCIV 2011 on National Higher Education. XXV of 2017 amending Act No. T/1781 on the amendment of Act T/1781 The joint debate of the legislative proposal No.2 shall take place on the Tuesday sitting of the Parliament, following the speeches before the agenda, and decisions shall take place at the earliest from 12 a.m. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that the following legislative proposals be discussed in general immediately following the decisions on Tuesday's meeting in the following order: 1) the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Lebanon, of the other part, and the Protocols thereto, Bill No. 1; 2) the publication of the Protocol to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union 3) on the amendment of certain laws relating to the change of the name of the Governmental Officials Arbitration Committee T/17783. Bill No. 1. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The MSZP group suggested that H/17788 on the extraordinary settlement of claims against victims of the Czeglédy case. The Parliament will not discuss the proposal for a resolution at its meeting starting today. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of Parliament has not accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The election of Commission officials and members will follow. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the S/17834 tabled by the President. The content of the personal proposal.
u2017-10-16-25	13/2014 on the establishment of parliamentary committees, the election of its officials and members. Snow V. Point 1 of the Parliamentary Decision of 6th March is amended as follows. In the Committee on Agriculture István Horváth, Fidesz, László L. Simon, Fidesz, Vice-President of the Committee, Balázs Simon Róbert, Fidesz, elected Gergely Gaal, KDNP, to the Committee on National Inclusion L. László Simon, Fidesz, instead of Gergely Gaal, KDNP, member of the Committee. Point 2 of the Parliamentary Decision is amended as follows: Parliament elects István Hollik, KDNP, member of the Committee, to become a member of the Legislative Committee, Dr. György Rubovszky, KDNP. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2017-10-16-26	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts S/17834. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the personal proposal with 153 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is up to you to discuss and decide on the immunity case. I would like to inform you that the Central District Court of Buda 34.BPK.1195/2017/7. In its order No.3 in Ákos Hadházy Member of Parliament has requested the suspension of his immunity in a private charge. The president of the Parliament gave this to the immunity committee for examination. The immunity committee is H/17868. Mr Ákos Hadházy presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal in a five-minute time frame. Mr. President, you have the floor.
u2017-10-16-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, György Simonka, Member of Parliament at the Central Investigator's Attorney General's Office, is Btk. 226. In accordance with Article 4 (1) (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, and in accordance with point (b) (c) of paragraph 2 of that Article, he filed a complaint against an unknown perpetrator concerning the offence of defamation of an official. [[14.10]] In violation of paragraph 2 (b) (c) of paragraph 2 of this Article, and in the presence of a large public authority, which has caused significant harm to the public, he has filed a complaint against an unknown perpetrator concerning the offence of defamation of an official. (14.10) At the same time, it was found from the complaint that the complaint was directed against Mr Ákos Hadházy. The Central District Court of Buda has therefore turned to Parliament in its transcript already cited. To Ákos Hadházy 2017. I. On the 5th and 11th day of the same month, he had two speeches, one in the MTI and another in the Békés County Newspaper, which gave rise to the complaint in the case of Congressman György Simonka. This is a private indictment motion, the unbroken practice of the Parliament's Committee on immunity is that in such a case, the Member's right of immunity is not to be suspended by Parliament in order to protect the legal status of the Member. At today's committee meeting, we discussed this, and following the previous Commission practice, the motion to suspend the Member's immunity was not given a majority at the committee meeting. Therefore, I propose to the Parliament that the suspension should not happen. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-16-28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Ákos Hadházy if he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy says no.]] The Member points out that he does not wish to make use of the opportunity to speak. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Members of Parliament Ákos Hadházy. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not suspend the immunity of Ákos Hadházy with 23 votes in favour, 120 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, At 2:12 p.m., we move on to interpellation and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is the Rules of Procedure 121. Ms Ágnes Vadai K/17518. He refused to take a written question because the motion was not part of the mandate of the Government. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Why did the government give up on elderly people in need of care? It's an address. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor.
u2017-10-16-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm guessing Mr. Secretary of State will answer, so I'll address the question to Mr. Secretary of State. Dear Secretary of State, It is clear from the data of the first quarter of 2017 that there has been a drastic increase in mortality compared to previous similar data in 2016. There are many causes of death, but the main cause is poor health care, which mainly affects older people. Unfortunately, in the cold months, there are still people in Hungary whose death is caused by coldness, and many of them are elderly people who, because of their low pension, are unable to manage their overhead costs and therefore often save on heating. Of course, if basic social and health care were working properly, many people's deaths could be prevented, but we find that in recent years the government has taken significant amounts from social benefits. The government has also tightened the rules on access to home assistance in recent years, and now people who would have been entitled to it earlier, even though they paid for it. Home care has been separated into two separate areas of activity, of which social assistance can be provided by public workers. This would not be a problem in itself, but they will add another state area to public employment, which means that for the same job workers will receive less wages and respect. Since conditions have been tightened, it is now very difficult to get into nursing homes. So far, it has taken a lot of time for elderly people who need care to enter the home, and waiting lists continue to grow. But anyone who may be able to get into one of these homes will also be asked for drastic amounts of money, up to HUF 8 million. And by the way, the monthly fee has also increased significantly. Those who do not receive any care can rely on the help of family or relatives. But even though someone wants to take care of their family at home, the government is no longer providing adequate support for this, since the fair care fee has also been abolished. In fact, the government's aim, by introducing parenting, is to support the children of an elderly person in all circumstances, whether it is home care or even to pay them a fee in one institution. The question arises as to why this is necessary. Is there really no money to provide proper care to elderly sick people in Hungary today? Those who do not have any help, do they really have to be on their own? It can't be the government's old policy to support or support everyone. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State why the government has given up on elderly people in need of care. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-10-16-30	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-16-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, This government wants to help everyone in whatever life situation, whatever age it is. At the same time, it was surprising to hear from a representative of the Socialist Party that the cost of overhead was too high for poor people, while the Socialist Party was the one that raised its overhead, doubled the price of electricity, tripled the price of gas, and while the incomes did not increase in Hungary. And Fidesz-KDNP was able to reduce its fees by 20 and 25 percent. Everyone can see this in the announcements they receive every month, and everyone can see how many hundred thousand forints they can now save by reducing their costs. So whoever raised the rent is the socialist government, and obviously the poor people felt it on their wallets. In the case of pensions, I would also like to remind you that while you have taken a month's pension from all Hungarian pensioners, the IMF whistled, the World Bank whistled, and at that moment you took a month's pension from all Hungarian pensioners without resistance, while Fidesz-KDNP has increased the amount of pensions by 23.1 percent over the last seven years. This means that the value of pensions increased by 9.5 per customer value, i.e. almost 10 per cent. And things will take place in the coming months and years that Hungary has not been able to pay a pension premium, and the next year's budget was also adopted with HUF 32 billion on this line. This has never happened before in Hungary. You said that the number of people taking care of their homes would decrease and that many people would be excluded from home care. Honourable Congressman, What you call shrinkage, more difficult access, exclusion: 75,054 people received home care in 2010, which has now increased to 107, 294. That's 40 percent growth. You say it's hard to access, narrowing the circle, less and less people can use it, compared to that, the circle that can use it has increased by 40 percent. And this has not only been done by providing much more care for the same number of caregivers, but also by increasing the number of people employed who deal with these people, especially older people: while in 2010, 5764 people were employed under home assistance, this increased to 13 399 by 2016. In other words, more than twice as many people need home assistance as before. So the system was not complicated, the conditions were not narrowed, the procedure was simplified, and much more was possible. When you withdraw money from social care, you can ask Lajos Korózs, who at the time, perhaps as Chairman of the Commission or Secretary of State, why it is acceptable to reduce social normative or high social normative by 30 or 100 thousand forints. They didn't increase it, you reduced these subsidies. At the care fee, I did not understand exactly what you were referring to, honourable Member. In addition to the increased care fee, we introduced the special care fee, which is a much higher help for those who care for their own family members at home. [[14.20]] And the new health centers represent an increased social support system, a higher service social institution, in which I think someone who will look around when they recover - because the government has already provided a billion-dollar grant for the first such increased, better-quality care centres - if someone looks at this, they will see how the government has been able to help those in difficulty. And what I can tell you from here is that the best social policy is job creation: the fact that 770 thousand more people work shows that 770 thousand fewer people are at risk of poverty and deprivation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-16-32	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I will ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State's reply. You have the floor.
u2017-10-16-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I cannot accept the Secretary of State's reply because of today's press report. If everything is so beautiful and all so good, Mr. Secretary, how do you explain the record number of people in need on the social waiting list? In September this year, nearly 30,000 people were waiting for some kind of social benefit, most of them being older people, and a significant part of it in connection with some home. This figure is about three-quarters of reality, since only three-quarters of the institutions responded to this question on the basis of the data requested by the Social and Child Protection Superintendent. This figure of 30,000 could be up to 41,000, and only a third of them have received some kind of care. If everything is so beautiful and so good, I would ask the Secretary of State to explain this as well. Thank you, I can't accept the answer.
u2017-10-16-34	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 28 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, István Apáti, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. When will they provide meaningful assistance to the masses that are heating with wood, or is this also waiting for the future Jobbik government? It's an address. Congressman István Apáti has the floor.
u2017-10-16-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, It is only the middle of October, but the shortage of firewood has already become significant, and where it is possible to get it, the fuel is very expensive. You like to refer to the reduction of the rent, which, of course, we have supported, we have said that this is a particularly beneficial thing for households, but it is our duty to draw your attention to serious shortcomings. According to the data of the KSH in August, the price of firewood increased by 6.1 percent over a year, but the reality is much tougher, much harsher, as it is a lot of two figures, and in many trades we have seen more than ten percent or even 50 percent increase in firewood prices in the last year. We found it particularly good to reduce the consumer prices of district heating and natural gas, but you still forgot about the wood heating masses, even though we have already said that for hundreds of thousands of families or perhaps millions of families there is no other option than wood burning, as this is the way the house was built, or because of the ever increasing gas prices they changed from gas heating to wood heating. Here, too, we have to turn back to the issue of wages and salaries, Mr. Secretary of State, because it is impossible to renovate or modernise these housing buildings from an average salary and make them energy efficient. This is why it can happen that the heating of a smaller house, built 30-40-50 years ago, costs much more than the heating of a house with significantly larger floor space, but modern technology, so the poor are the losers again, the poor are carving on it again. The solution has already been mentioned, almost five years ago, in December 2012, we presented our proposal, which meant reducing the VAT content of firewood to 5%, and we also raised the question of VAT exemption. You swept this off the table, and what did you refer to? Brussels rules prohibit this from happening. I find this rather pathetic: while the oral karate and the alleged political cage fight with Brussels continue, they could not do so much to reduce the VAT on firewood. The fact is that the budget would be burdened to a very small extent, and if there was money available for stadiums, small trains, Vietnamese hospitals, buddy subsidies every week, there might also be some funding for this. The figures are terrible, Mr Secretary of State, because more than 1,600 people have been frozen since 2010, with at least 200 people freezing to death in their own homes last winter, 80 percent of the people in the last winter alone, which is why the following issues cannot be avoided. Do you see the need to reduce the VAT content of firewood or even to ensure VAT exemption? Do you realize that what you've done so far has been very little and discriminatory? When are you finally willing to help families with trees? I look forward to your meaningful reply, free of misconception. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-16-36	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Deputy State Secretary András Tállai responds to the interpellation. Deputy Minister, you have the floor.
u2017-10-16-37	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The tax reduction proposal, the VAT reduction proposal, has always been an opposition genre; it is a opposition genre, because it is popular, who hears it, believes that it will be pleased and has no responsibility; it has no responsibility, because the opposition is not responsible for the revenue coming in, it is not responsible for the sound balance of the budget, it is not responsible for anything, it is simply to propose. In addition, Jobbik also needs to clarify what his relationship with the European Union is now, because, by the way, when it comes to the Wages Union, the European Union is a friend, and when it comes to VAT directives, they look at the directive of the European Union. And believe that whoever governs must comply with the European Union's directives, and they say that the criteria must be taken into account when establishing a VAT key for competing replacement goods, account must be taken of the fact that different VAT rates cannot be applied at the expense or to the benefit of one or another product. This also applies to firewood, as if the VAT rate on firewood were to be reduced, coal and natural gas would also have to be modified, of course only if we want to comply with the European directive; our government would like to comply with it. Moreover, VAT reductions are not the only way to achieve the objectives of the firewood programme. An example of this is what the Ministry of Interior applied for by municipalities, where 2255 municipalities won some HUF 4 billion, and this affects 180 thousand households when people get firewood and fuel free of charge. In this way, they can also receive soft leaf firewood worth 3.5 billion forints, brownstone coal for nearly 77 million forints, and coal for 421 million forints, and soft leaf firewood. The government is committed to pursuing a fair social policy, and while your reduced rents saved some HUF 909 billion between 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2016 on gas, electricity, district heating, water, sewerage, LPG and waste charges, this amount was left in the public's pocket as a surplus due to the lower fees provided for by the reduction of electricity. This is significantly more than reducing VAT on any product. Honourable Congressman, What I can tell you is that your proposal is obviously favourable to a target group, but if we take into account the EU directives, we take into account the government's social policy objectives, and your proposal is not eligible in this case. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-16-38	I thank the Deputy Minister for his reply. I ask the Member if he will accept the reply of the Deputy Minister.
u2017-10-16-39	Dear Secretary of State, This answer is completely unacceptable and shows an insulting insensitiveness. I believe you won't have any trouble getting the winter heat, that these problems have been very far from you, or are you with them, as they were, in 2003, in your open-air file, one of the military trainers is that the soldier is not cold, at most he can sense the cold. Perhaps you are, too, that is why it is not a problem for people. [[14.30]] I simply do not know if you are aware, Mr Secretary of State, that from Nyíregyháza to Győr, at present, a glazed, 40-50 per cent water acacia firer costs per glaze. Can you tell me? I'll help you. Five thousand forints, ladies and gentlemen. Five thousand forints! This is something that an average Hungarian family cannot farm, and they cannot heat from it, so people are cold, Mr. Secretary of State. That's why I need your help. [[Interjection in the ranks of Fidesz: Where?]] I'll give you the addresses, my fellow Members, I'll give you the address, and then you can go shopping. That is why VAT should be reduced, Mr. Secretary, which is why we should help people, you know, because they don't have as much money as you do. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-16-40	Dear Parliament, The congressman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the reply of the Deputy Minister by 109 votes in favour, 28 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture: å Is the Ministry miscounting? It's an address. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor.
u2017-10-16-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Over the last two weeks, there has been a recurring theme of land privatization, and Secretary of State Márton Bitay, on behalf of FM, said twice that the state has delivered 30,000 small farmers to the land. We looked at the exact details of how the buys were made at the bidding, and as I described in the interpellation, I found the document on a total of 8745 sales. The number of natural persons specifically affected is 3910, including 3,500 customers as a family at the same address. Obviously, the question arises: if we are talking about bidding and land privatization, then where does FM get these numbers, because this is starting to be like the number of sheep in Hajdú-Bihar, where the FM was also very wrong. So it's definitely something else. It is clear that there are 60 large farmers, 2-3-4 large farmers per county, only about 3900 in total, some of whom are traders, entrepreneurs and lawyers. So I raised the question, which I also asked in writing: how does 30,000 customers come out? How is it established when the contract is signed that the buyers even meet the purchase conditions set out in the National Land Fund? On what basis are these customers considered to be small farmers? These questions are all the more important, since among the customers there is the large contractor, Zoltán Szatmári, close to Fidesz, who bought 293 hectares; with Dezső Kékessy 288 ha of the direct circle of friends of the Orbán family, Szabolcs Fazekas, the mayor of Tomajmonostora, who belongs to the friendly circle of the ministers Sándor Fazekas and Mihály Varga, is directly related to him, which bought 268 ha, and there are the Bekecs brothers of Minister Sándor Fazekas's kinship with 252 ha. This is interesting because on the basis of the land law in Hungary, based on a maximum of 300 hectares of land, we have to assume that these are farmers who didn't have any land before. There's no mention of small farmers buying land here. It is clear that you have eluded this state fortune to your family, relatives and business, and we are not talking about 30,000 customers, but only about 3900 customers in terms of land sold by bidding. This is a problem because they strengthen everything but employment from all kinds of circles. For example, 41 people in Budapest bought 147 parts of the land in 6 different counties, and there is only missed one that is the territory of Pest county. Obviously, this shows that this land privatization did not, in any way, meet the goals of the land for farmers! During the programme, it was announced that it did not meet the objectives that Vice-President James announced here in Parliament in the summer of 2015 that small farmers should be brought to the ground. This was simply a robbery, they allowed the Hungarian land to be robbed, and obviously we look forward to the answer that these statistics, based on your public data, are limping where, and where, the difference is between your data and ours, which actually points to the truth. I look forward to this, too, to the Minister's reply without any misconception.
u2017-10-16-42	Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Fazekas, Minister for Agriculture, responds to the interpellation. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2017-10-16-43	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian government, Fidesz-KDNP, is on the side of Hungarian farmers, which is why we have announced the land to farmers! A program that includes both rental and land sales elements. Honourable Congressman, You deliberately mix these two categories, land sales and land leases. We Karcagon know the difference between the two, it's not a small difference. I'm sure you're in the shadow of your tourkevel's collapsing windmill also suspects something about this, but I'd like to add to your knowledge. The land for the farmers! The essence of the land sale part of the programme is that we sell the land at auction, and we can agree that since there can be no more than 300 hectares of land for anyone, there can be no large estate. So the examples you have raised, eloquently disprove the reasoning that you have tried to state here in front of this House, there can be no great estate if you can only buy 300 hectares of land. It is also evident that relatives cannot be counted in such a case, for then, let us say, the purchase of a brother's land would make it impossible for another brother to buy land. In all cases, the National Land Fund and the Land Administration examine whether the farmer is entitled, resident, able to buy land, property or property, without which he cannot register at the auction or register earlier. It also helps farmers. And besides, what you claim to say at an auction, at a bid, is that there's some kind of sloppy way to avoid the rules, because there's the one who wins the land, who pays more, and who has also helped purchase the right discount. The relevant legislation must be read. It includes the fact that whoever wins the bid may not be the real owner of the land, because it can prevent, say, the land purchase right; in the land law, you will find the list. The number of 30,000 farmers allocated to the land is fact and truth, and it also shows our success, because not only could land be won on the bid, there can be not only a pre-purchaser, but sales below three hectares are also included in this area. Thus comes the 30,000 farmers, which means that one in three farmers could buy land in the framework of this program. But, honourable Member, it is also due to this that the land use of private individuals and family farms has shifted over the last seven years. In the past, half of the Hungarian cultivated area was cultivated, they now produce 60 percent, and the land use of companies has been reduced to 40 percent, which shows that we support family farms and help them with this. So the process is exactly the reverse of what you're saying. But I would like to give you an example of how to prevent large estates from being created, because you are a good example of this, when you have tried to apply for a total of 2325 hectares of land, trying to create a major estate out of public land on leases, and your interests. Eventually, he won 237 hectares, but if you had won all the land, beyond the creation of a great estate, he would have deprived 49 farmers of access to land. In my view, this certainly shows that the land lease system and the land tender system work, and does not allow large estates to be created. We protect farmers. We also protected the 49 farmers in Turkeve who you wanted to take the land away from, protecting the others from you, the LMP, and anyone who objects to or opposes family farms, you want to prevent legislation that helps them. Farmers know that only Fidesz-KDNP can be counted on in this debate. We'll protect them in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-16-44	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Minister's answer.
u2017-10-16-45	I do not accept, and thank you not only for your reply, Minister, but also for the first 200 thousand forints you have already paid for such lies as you have already said, since you have not shown up here in the Ministry since your last lawsuit. But thank you. [[Interview in the lines of the MSZP: The Ministry?]] The amount has arrived; I trust we will be able to use it for good purposes. That's a first. Unfortunately, I have not won a single square foot of land, unlike his claims, and obviously many other small farmers have not. And I say why not. Because in your calculations, if there are any households where they bought 32 pieces of land, you consider that 32 farmers, but that's not the case. There is a purchased property, a part purchased by a customer, where a natural person bought the most, something 16, you count as 16 customers. The doctor's appointment number is 437, so nearly 10 percent of the customers are lawyers, veterinarians and doctors. The percentage of the mayor's buyers is 15 percent. We didn't find any customers in the field privatisation who had previously confiscated property. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You have played the Hungarian land, and you will answer for it next spring. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-10-16-46	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Minister's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 106 votes to 25, with no abstentions. [[14.40]] Dear Parliament, István Szilárd Németh, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade. It's an address. Mr István Szilárd Németh has the floor.
u2017-10-16-47	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, It's been about three years since the SDS ended. The most damaging party in Hungary after the change of regime has left behind not only a few ignominious paragraphs in the history books, but also a debt of 500 million, which is still under investigation. Although the party has already taken its well-deserved place in the wasteland of history, its political mummy quits from time to time [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Land Privatization...]] from the historical panoptic and tour. Of course, only abroad, because they know very well that no one at home wants to see them, no one believes them. As a direct continuation of left-wing traditions, the main essence of these speeches is unscrupulous lying and Hungary's lurking. An interview was published two weeks ago. The Italian weekly Espresso with Gábor Demszky. Of course, the former mayor who left behind the stable of Augiasz did not report the greatest corruption of all time in the EU, not the 160 billion metro money stolen during the Medgyessy-Gyurcsány-Bajnai period, but the serious economic crisis affecting Hungary because of the national government. It's as if there's a competition between the powerful SZDSZ, even Demszkyn is far beyond Magyar Bálint. In June, the failed Minister of Education wrote a discrediting article about his country on the Project Syndicate online opinion page. The name of the site may be familiar from the fact that György Soros published his plan here two years ago, with the flow of at least 1 million immigrants to Europe every year. This is the plan of which the spiritual heirs of the SZDSZ deny even its existence, although it is still available on this site. One of the biggest sponsors of Project Syndicate is, of course, the Foundation of George Soros, the Open Society Foundation. After the article was published, Hungary started giving talks to the United States, including Berkeley, California. Lajos Simicska's cards and the Klubradio, who had problems for many years, competed with each other about the fact that after the performance a Hungarian diplomat confronted the liar. The Hungarian diplomatic faculty must have a natural and self-evident duty to represent Hungary's interests abroad. How are we doing on this, Mr. Secretary of State? Can we at last expect in the future that Hungarian diplomats will protect our country from embarrassing attacks? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-16-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Levente Magyar responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2017-10-16-49	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Congressman, My answer is briefly that yes, it will continue to be so in the future, but given that not even a few years ago it was a self-evident and natural phenomenon, perhaps the subject deserves more than a simple yes. Honourable Congressman, It should be natural in all circumstances and in all countries that a country's democratically elected government stands up to the highest level against any attack that is unfair to the country. The fact that this has not been the case in Hungary for a long time even after the change of regime is clearly due to the difficult historical heritage that stems from our socialist past before 1989 and then from our post-socialist past after 1990. Honourable Congressman, This period brought about systematic destruction of national self-esteem. During this period, the only standard of foreign policy was unconditional alignment, compliance, and the pressure to play the good guy role in Hungarian foreign policy was the leading star of foreign policy. This is what we have had to change, especially for those who have grown into the suffocating atmosphere that this premissia dominates Hungarian foreign policy, Hungarian diplomacy; the premission is that even apparent and even superficial peace is worth more than the inconveniences that we feel to be invading our real interests. Honourable Congressman, I think that the past few years have clearly demonstrated that we have broken up with this difficult legacy and that under all circumstances we stand up for the good name and honour of our country. Of course, this can never be a self-serving conflict generation, but the turbulence of recent years in foreign policy shows that this has never happened in any case, that we have always been attacked for the first time, and we have only given adequate and proportionate reaction to diplomacy. Honourable Congressman, If you allow us, let us look at what we are talking about, what issues Hungary is attacked on, how Hungary is fighting these attacks, and then, at the end of the day, how history judges these issues, because there is already a topic in which we can talk about a historic, or at least electoral, democratic judgment. Here, for example, is the issue of illegal migration, in which colleagues here have gathered for me what different statesmen have said about Hungary. In the spirit of this House's discretion, I would not describe this in detail, but we all remember that our country was spoken with unworthy words. In any case, we have given the proper, if you like, hard answer to this series of unworthy attacks, which would have been largely unacceptable and even unacceptable, thinking about the period before the 2010 period. And today, if we look around Europe, it is enough to focus only on yesterday's Austrian elections, the voters gave the judgment of value, gave the political verdict, and practically one after the other there are election results across Europe, but at least for Central Europe this is certainly true, which almost perfectly coincides with what the Hungarian government has represented in this matter against the high school for many years. We've been told everything that can be said. We fought these attacks back, and, well, a few years after the events, it is true that the Hungarian government was right, because who else should say a legitimate verdict on this huge issue, rather than the voters who did so once more yesterday - this is a few hours' news - in Austria. Honourable Congressman, So I think that Hungarian diplomacy is in place in this respect, and in the future all Hungarian citizens can expect that, if they are attacked either by them or by their results or by their country, we will be most strongly opposed to them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-16-50	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2017-10-16-51	Thank you, Secretary of State, for the answer, and thank you for tidying up the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, today, the majority of those in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are working, and hopefully, that will be the case, who will also represent the programme you outlined as a diplomat, regardless of the colour of Hungary's government, because we have to represent the interests of Hungary abroad. In particular, let us talk about the fact that Danku Attila defended the country here and defended practically the people living across the border, who dared to vote in 2014, who dared to declare - 98 percent of the voters there - that Fidesz-KDNP is considered to be able to serve the interests of all Hungarians over the next four years. That's why Bálint Magyar stepped on them, and that's what had to be made clear at this meeting in Berkeley where he met his liberal friends. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Former Minister of Education. Congratulations, Mr. Secretary, thank you again.
u2017-10-16-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Why can't there be more support for the sick, needy elderly? Why hasn't there been an increase in public health care for years? Why do family members who care for their loved ones not receive adequate financial recognition in their homes? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor. [[14.50]]
u2017-10-16-53	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, the government has not increased the level of public health care by one forint, and the budget has decreased annually - some HUF 17 billion. As I'm counting, it's roughly a 20-percent drop, and last year, the government spent only 14 billion forints on state support for socially dependent patients, as I said, 3 billion less, while hundreds of thousands of people live under the minimum living. We heard here in the speech before the agenda that the pension of nearly 2 million pensioners is less than 100,000 forints. The overall budget line could also be reduced because in 2015 the government, along with several aids, eliminated forms of care that fell into the equity care premium. It is well known that the municipalities could give this to the people in need together with the equity care fee and other subsidies. Only with this one step has the government taken its support from tens of thousands of people. The amount of supply will not increase next year, but they will only do so by raising the premium threshold by 5 percent in the election year, i.e. the limit under which someone can qualify for the aid. So you're gonna get a little more here, but the supply isn't gonna get any higher. Even some who had fallen out because of the income threshold could receive benefits. Although the care fee has increased slightly, it is far from reaching the amount that would be appropriate to caregivers in recognition of the many times 24 - hour care. The care of an elderly person in a boarding home still receives far more support than home care. We do not understand why Fidesz, who stood up so warily in the opposition for the interests of caregivers in their homes, did not take any meaningful steps on government. Employment issues have not been resolved in any way, and small steps have been taken in material matters, while the number of people involved is constantly rising. That's why I'm asking why they're not finally raising the amount of public health care. I also ask why family members who care for their loved ones do not receive substantial financial recognition in their homes. Why do older people in poverty not receive more support and no more support from economic growth for people in need? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-10-16-54	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2017-10-16-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Hungarian Socialist Party is holding a thematic day today, as its representatives are speaking on a social issue, in principle showing that social issues are important for the Socialist Party. But, honourable Member, I think you can make a headway on who your fellow socialists are who are listening to this, because there are three socialist Members who, on this thematic day, when you are putting all your energy into the spotlight on social issues and trying to speak out for the people in difficulty, well, you have three fellow Members in Parliament to listen to these speeches. [[Lajos Korózs: Four!]] Sorry, four. Excuse me, there's a huge difference, Congressman, four people are listening to you. This shows how seriously the Socialist Party takes this. About as much as when the elderly and Ferenc Gyurcsány said out of respect for women that they wanted to replace old wives. Honourable Congressman, Remember, in 2007, when you had to suffer a normative reduction of 100,000 forints, related to your name, for every elderly person who was in a prominent social institution, for the rest of you, only 30,000, and you said that you didn't need all people after they got old, automatically into the nursing home if someone wanted to, your neighbors or friends to take care of you. Then as a politician of the Socialist Party, he made such a compassionate statement. We can remember what elderly people or people in need of society have received from the socialists. They got restrictions, restrictions and restrictions, because every year or two, when Ferenc Gyurcsány announced another program, it became a restriction. That is why the number of unemployed may have increased by 250,000, thus exposing another 250,000 people to the risk of poverty. Again, I am calling your attention, as I called on your congressman a few minutes ago, that the number of caregivers and caregivers involved in home assistance did not decrease, but increased. 40 percent more people today receive home assistance than they received in 2010, and double the number of workers, double the number of employees who help them, help them in their care than before. So this is where both the suppliers and the beneficiaries expanded, so the service or public service is of higher quality here as well. We can also remember when you and your fellow Members took a monthly pension from all elderly people on 11 May 2009. Then their social sensitivity somehow didn't speak. They received instructions from the European Commission, on the one hand, from Brussels, and from the IMF and the World Bank on the other, and at that moment they took away this one-month pension. But their hands did not tremble when they had to close the Children's Hospital in Svábhegy, when they had to close the National Psychiatric and Neurological Institute, when they had to close the Szabolcs Street Hospital, or when they had to close the Schöpf-Mere Hospital and Mother's Protection Center. This was part of the 600 billion forints that were taken from the health care center, precisely from the most deprived people. Those who stayed there worked there - although it is true that 16,000 fewer beds, 6,000 fewer employees - even the remaining employees were deprived of a month's wages. You have taken 60 billion forints from the drug support system, which would help those most in need. With the introduction of the blind betting system, we have achieved that this year, for example, the average price of 349 products, a drug, has decreased by HUF 1111. We have increased what we have spent on drug support in the last two or three years, and, moreover, the drug prices have decreased noticeably as a result of the blind procedure. Public health care, as you know, honourable Member, has provided benefits in kind, and the economic results of recent years have allowed the amount of monthly income per capita to be examined to increase from the minimum amount of old-age pension to 105 per cent, and from 150 per cent to 155 per cent in the case of living alone, thus improving the situation of those receiving public health care. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-16-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-10-16-57	I'd like to make it clear that I don't accept your answer. Mr Secretary, once you explain, here is today's news that, according to DG Social and Child Protection's statement, there are a record number of people in need on the social waiting list. That it's in the Virgin Mary that you're singing praises here [[An uproar on the pro-government side.]] And the director general of one of your institutions says there's a record number of people in need on the social waiting list? Secretary of State, you didn't answer two things: why don't you increase the amount of public health care and give more support to those who care for their loved ones in their homes? What I see is that they will give money to a stadium even in Slovakia, they will support a team of Transylvanian hockey, they will build a hospital in Vietnam before they will support the people in need. I don't accept your answer.
u2017-10-16-58	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 25 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. When is the government willing to act responsibly on one of our most pressing issues in terms of wage catch-up? It's an address. Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs has the floor.
u2017-10-16-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In Hungary, the level of earnings of employed workers is ignominiously lower than those of their counterparts in Western Europe. This is true of the entire national economy, i.e. both in the private sector and in the public sector, but in the latter case there is no doubt a greater responsibility of the State. We raise the issue of wage increases for people employed in budgetary institutions year after year when negotiating draft budgetary legislation, so we continue to push for an increase in the civil servant's salary base as well as certain supplements, allowances, rethinking of the civil servant's pay table, and so on. Let us do this by making it absolutely clear that there is coverage for all these additional expenditures. Without changing the deficit target, public service workers' wages could be increased if the Fidesz government did not extend the small railway on the road, move the Prime Minister's Office to the Castle, force the Liget Budapest project, or stop the propagandaistry and reduce the support for state propaganda. [[15.00]] Or if you stop plotting Eximbank, or if you might reconsider the Tao Support system. And this line could go on until sundown. But apparently, the Fidesz government has no intention of settling wages. In fact, the purpose of the Orbán plan is specifically to keep public servants literally in service. Why? Partly to maintain the restrictive measures of the shameful IMF pact concluded in 2008. But in part, to keep the public servants in a more vulnerable and humiliated position in order to be more manageable and manipulative. A good example of this is the illegal instruction issued by the heads of government agencies to carry out posters violations, which were expected on the basis of absolute loyalty and devotion to the party state. Obviously, you are not trying to defend yourself with these arguments because of the lack of a comprehensive salary increase, but you are trying to cover yourself with the scale of the economy's performance and with modest increases within certain professional groups, but only there in the case of typical jobs, which are slow and well delayed. Of course, there's a lot more to promise than actual wage arrangements. Dear Secretary of State, Then I ask when the government is finally willing to act responsibly on one of our most pressing issues in terms of wage catch-up. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-16-60	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-16-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I regret that due to his indiscretion, I now have to answer the same interpellation or question many times, and in contrast to your claims, I must say that in Hungary the pay gap has been achieved significantly over the last seven years, and that in the last two years, in 2016 and 17 this has accelerated. That's what the statistics show. If you are interested in the possibility and location of finding statistical data, I would be happy to tell you what it is you need to look at in order to have these data at your disposal. Because the current government, the Orbán government, has made a very serious effort over the past period to compensate for the disadvantages that we have inherited here as a historical heritage in Central Europe or in southern Europe, and to overcome the disadvantage that we inherited as a legacy before the 1990s. Following the 2008 IMF pact mentioned by the Member, the new and one of the main objectives of the government that took office in 2010 was to get rid of the austerity measures of the pact concluded by the previous government. The government has taken very important steps to catch up on wages and increase employment. Several times, many data have been said that more than 700 thousand people are working today than in 2010 and that the value of real wages has increased significantly, if you look at the data at the end of 2016. This means that real wages have increased by 24 per cent from 2010 to 2016, and if you look at more than 10 per cent of real wage growth this year, you have to count on another, about 10 per cent, so real wages have increased by approximately 35 per cent since 2010 in these six and a half years, especially if family tax relief is included. It can be said that in families with three or more children, this increase in real wages exceeded 50 percent. It was a significant step in the competition sector, and outside the competition sector, the wage agreement at the end of November last year was also a significant step in other occupational sectors, where not only the social partners, employers, employees' representatives with the government had a significant wage agreement, but also a tax reduction. One of the next steps of this is that from 1 January 2018, instead of the planned reduction of the social contribution rate by 2 percentage points, and this bill is already here before Parliament, we are initiating a reduction of 2.5 percentage points. This will reduce the burden on wages by a total of 7.5 percentage points over two years. In the public sector, in addition to raising the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, the government helps the conditions of workers and their families with career plans and sectoral wage measures. For example, in the case of people working in the district office, civil servants, these can be seen. These are the people to talk to, and they can say that their wages have increased significantly in recent years. But if we have been asked many times why we are not doing more for the rise in wages, the catch-up, which is happening anyway, and in its dynamics it is greater than the dynamics of the Central European states, especially if we consider the year 2016-17, and we have been shutting down to Western Europe to an even greater extent, it could be asked that in the budget of Tisavasvár, which is regarded as a better model city, the general wage development of public servants and civil servants will not take place during the period of staff allowances. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Mrs. Loránt Violinist intervenes.]] So if you do this in your own city, if you happen to be in government, what would you do in the course of government work? Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-16-62	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-10-16-63	Mr. Secretary. You shouldn't be lying in the church of the nation, but you shouldn't be making such cynical and shameful jokes about the wages of civil servants and civil servants. Because, yes, two thirds of civil servants and civil servants still get a minimum wage. Minimum wage, you know, Secretary of State? So there was no real, real pay-per-view in the public sector. In fact, in line with the austerity measures of the IMF pact, which you inherited from Gyurcsány, they still keep to this day, so much so that the value of these payments has decreased by 30 percent! And yes, we are not working from the statistics you lied about, but from the examples requested from the German, Austrian, English statistical office, as well as from the public data register. So we are trying to reconcile reality with your lies, and unfortunately it follows that, yes, about one-sixth of the wages of those employed in the public sector compared to those of their fellow Western Europeans. So I can't accept the answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-16-64	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 29 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, László Szászfalvi, representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. In what areas has the agreement between the Government and the Reformed Church of Hungary been renewed? It's an address. Mr László Szászfalvi has the floor.
u2017-10-16-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, On 4 October 2017, the Government renewed its agreement with the Reformed Church of Hungary on the provision of religious, public, public and social activities. The principles of the relationship between the government and the Reformed Church of Hungary were confirmed in the previous agreement concluded in 1998. The agreement stated that the relations between the state and the churches had been re-established by the restoration of democratic order of state. Accordingly, instead of a previous ideological confrontation, a period of partnership and mutual responsibility followed, in addition to the principle of freedom of religion and separation between the state and the church. Therefore, in the agreement, the government recognised the local government of the Reformed Church, did not establish a body for the administration or supervision of the Reformed Church. The agreement also covered the questions and guarantees of the Hungarian Reformed Church's religious, public and public activities related to the state's financial support. The Reformed Church has undertaken to carry out religious, public, public and social tasks. Among his duties of faith, he provides for the pursuit of his faith, the expression, the public exercise and teaching of faith and religious beliefs. It shall ensure the establishment, maintenance and operation of kindergarten, school and social institutions among its duties; it shall represent the values which have been preserved for centuries in accordance with its traditions in public life and in society. [[15.10]] Dear Secretary of State, The agreement of 98 confirmed the conditions for the operation of the Reformed Church in Hungary, which is why I ask the honourable Secretary of State, which are the new elements of the agreement between the Government and the Reformed Church in Hungary. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-16-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Miklós Soltész responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-16-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Before I answer, I would like to reflect on the unpredictable, unacceptable obscenity of Lajos Korózs, which he did in his previous interpellation reply. [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP. Attila Mesterházy: Which genre is this? Dr. László Kács: Will you respond?]] And I call on the Socialist faction and Lajos Korózs to apologize for everything that was obscene. [[Applause from the pro-government benches. Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] As far as the socialists say that this issue does not belong, it belongs here, because it is a matter of ecclesiastical affairs. [[Intercoms from the lines of the MSZP: We do not say, but the rules of the house!]] Lajos Korózs said an invaluable text that I have not heard from anyone in the Hungarian Parliament in the last decade and a half. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: András Aradszki!]] Honourable Congressman, I would like to report on the main content of the agreement, collected in a few points on the question you have asked. One of the most important, perhaps, is that institutions with public functions maintained by the Reformed Church also receive the same operational resources and development resources as those required for the conditions of long-term sustainable operation as the public government institutions. The Government takes into account, naturally, in the establishment of laws, government decrees and ministerial decrees, that the church may receive tax and other benefits for its religious and public purposes. As a third point, I would like to highlight the request of the Reformed Church, which will, of course, apply to other churches, that, in connection with the offer of 1 percent of personal income tax, we will present to Parliament a bill that will ensure that the Church will be able to know the number of individuals who benefit from it per settlement or, in the case of their consent to the declaration, its name and address. It is important in the agreement that the Government recognises that the pastoral service in hospitals and health institutions is an important part of the right to physical and at least such important mental health provided by the Fundamental Law, and therefore the Government undertakes to provide the clergymen with all state benefits corresponding to their tertiary education, as well as other health workers in the institution. At least such an important decision is the fact that the government provides independent and lasting, predictable financial support for the operation of church-run children's houses, schools, Roma specialised schools, on the basis of the principle of equal financing. It is also an important step in the agreement that the government recognises the tasks performed by the historical colleges of the church, their special role, and in view of this, it can provide them with special support, operational, scientific research and development. In any case, decisions on higher education are still important, and they are there as part of the agreement. The government initiates the recognition of Károli Gáspár Reformed University as a major university, as a university providing both the religious and secular training of the Reformed Church. What is at least as important and included is that both the Reformed Theological Academy of Pápa and the Reformed Theological Academy of Sárospataki initiate the examination of recognition at the Education Office as a university of applied sciences, which, if supported by the Education Office, will later be decided by the Parliament. Honourable Congressman, Thank you for your work, thank you for the work of the Reformed Church staff and, of course, the work of all those who are in this wide range, many for everyone. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The Reformed Church, the Hungarian Christian believers, helps the lives of the Reformed Church in a comprehensive agreement. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-16-68	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-10-16-69	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your reply, of course I accept it. I think it is also important that it has a symbolic significance for the date of adoption of the renewed agreement, because this year we will remember the 500th anniversary of the Reformation. I think it is of great importance that, in this renewed agreement, the government and the Reformed Church confirm the principle of equal funding for the institutions, ensuring it and guaranteeing it. The Reformed Church of Hungary is the 16th. Since the first century, he has served and served the Hungarian nation in educational, educational, social and cultural fields and in the field of community building. On this basis, we welcome the renewal of the agreement and good luck in its implementation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-16-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Ladies and gentlemen, Before we continue our work, allow me to welcome the students of the Kiskunhalasi Bibó István High School and their sister school in Germany, who are seated in the gallery with respect and friendship. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek, representative of LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister without a wallet for the design, construction and installation of the two new blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant:. Who pays for the Paks delay? It's an address. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor.
u2017-10-16-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Thank you very much for once again respecting the Parliament in person by answering this question. After you personally announced at a conference that you had to change the final date of the plant's completion, you may be lucky to respond personally to the first slip you have just announced, how you feel in the future. He said literally that I wanted to deliver the first one in 2026 and the second one in 2027. The published years indicate a one-year delay compared to the previously agreed schedule, i.e. the investment will be delayed for a minimum of one year. You will be late for the EU, with prolonged authorisation, but unfortunately that is not true, because the timetable shows that the environmental permit was planned for 2015, the site permit for 2016, and the installation permit for 2017. The environmental permit and the site permit increased in 2017 and the installation permit could be issued as soon as possible in mid-2019. The EU has nothing to do with the Hungarian authorisation procedure, as we know. Obviously, the question arises that the LMP has been constantly prognosticating the trend that all nuclear power plants are slipping, and that all nuclear power plants are costing significantly more than they plan to, and you provide us with the first signs of this: yes, it is, as LMP has said. Since the change of regime in Europe, no reactor block has been built within the planned time and cost frames, and the main reason for the cost overrun is always the delay in time, since people and machines had to pay longer, while the investment starts to grow later. Forgive me, Mr President or Minister, but let me just say that you refer to the same thing now, in effect, last week's statement by Austria, which clearly pointed out that Austria is going to turn to the international European court on this matter, as you can prove that this investment will not be repaid without State intervention. Obviously you don't have to answer that, because it doesn't appear on the subject, but it clearly supports our claims, as it is clear that this whole nuclear plan and fidesz nuclear block development are a flawed direction. The case of Zwentendorf must have said a lot to Minister: I believe that some 15 billion schillings have been developed for many years, and then a normal government, with a referendum, has not allowed the turnkey reactor to be put into operation, and accordingly, there is a solar park in Austria today. As we have recently read, the Swedes in Chernobyl produce solar panels. If the LMP is to govern, the third case in Europe is likely to be Paks' fate to use the energy distribution system to create solar panels. I would like to ask what else is going to change, and, in line with the question raised, we are curious to know what additional cost increases and delays you can report, Minister. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[15.20]]
u2017-10-16-72	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Minister János Süli responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Minister.
u2017-10-16-73	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Again, thank you for the question that we can confirm here again that these two blocks are needed, and that Brussels has said the same thing, who has examined six issues, and has given the Hungarian party the truth on all six issues, including issues relating to this return. Back then, the Austrian Chancellor did not appear in his written question at the time, but he was talking about dumping prices. So he is not talking about the fact that it will be very expensive, so he might be happy if the Hungarian electricity cost was very expensive, but he talked about the fact that he turned to the EU court because it would be very cheap and Hungary could appear in Europe with a dumping price. So there is a contradiction here, and then this contradiction is, in fact, the foundation of the Hungarian government's intention that this is the cheapest energy generation unit, which is appropriate and must be built on merit. What I can tell you is that there are 300 permits available, which we have obtained so far, we have a valid environmental site permit. The acquisition of these permits, when it became final in relation to the schedule, yes, because we also expected that everyone would attack their finality on the first stage, in the second stage, it happened, but it was taken into account when it was necessary. Depending on this, the first date was set. The delay is clearly the time lag for the authorisation in Brussels. In fact, for 16 months there was a standstill condition, when it was not possible to do payment work, so obviously, if there is no payment, then there is no contract, because who will undertake to work for us for free; so it is clearly the 16 months. What we have announced dates, 2025-26, the declaration of commercial machines, is the result of a long process when we start putting into service, and the end of the installation, when we have done all the tests on the blocks, we can be declared 100% operating machines... - otherwise we can be declared commercial machines, so this is the last phase. We have also repeatedly said that we are trying to bring in the slippage in Brussels in any way, we have the opportunity to change the deadlines, and we still have the chance to recover as much time as possible from this one year. When the price was fixed in the contract and approved by Brussels, the EUR 12.5 billion in the EU budget, as a result of the investigation, was clearly at this cost in Brussels, that even with this price, the two new blocks are profitable, and we can clearly say that with the exposure I mentioned last time that Hungary's imports are still above 30 percent, the Paks blocs can produce 30% of the Hungarian current production, so we still have a significant opportunity to connect other energy sources to the system. Here I mentioned renewables and coal before, because as the parallel plants of the two power plants are expected for nearly ten years, then blocks 1-4 will be shut down, and then there will be a lack of energy again. So the construction of Paks is a clear guarantee of the reduction of the rent, since we provide the electricity between HUF 36-38 in Germany, this is HUF 90. So the competitive industry can only operate with cheap energy, if there is a competitive industry, employment, wages and consumption, there is a vision for the country and the people living in it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-16-74	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman if he'll take the minister's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-10-16-75	Mr President, unfortunately, I can't do that, because, in practice, it is somewhat out of the question that it answers something else. The answers to the six questions were not addressed in Brussels. Obviously, if you and the Hungarian government lie with numbers and set real costs in the investment, Brussels can say that it is good on the basis of false figures. But as long as it doesn't specifically account for the costs of waste management, its guarding and any related costs, these are false figures. You should know that this is what you've been doing all your life, and waste management is still not solved, so you can't even appreciate the cost of this, so you can't even present real numbers. In terms of cheap and expensive terms, he also said to Austria that he had attacked him in virtually different ways. One thing you know perfectly well: Austria is anti-nuclear, and obviously a responsible government should not take on such a security risk. My main concern is that you must see that you expect to be a Fidesz government until 2026-27, but you won't be a Fidesz government either. And all the money that is spent on this is wasted money, because any decent government, just as Austria did in the past, must decide on this issue by referendum. [[Interview from Fidesz: Where will you be next year?]] I don't accept the answer. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-16-76	Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Minister's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 102 votes to 12, with 15 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Gyula Budai, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:, Can the students cheated by Csaba Csaba Czeglédy's MSZP group leader reach their money? It's an address. Congressman Gyula Budai has the floor.
u2017-10-16-77	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, As is known, Csaba Czeglédy, the municipal representative of the Szombathely MSZP, DK and Együttt, who represented several representatives and politicians on behalf of MSZP and DK as lawyers, is under prior arrest for suspicion of fiscal fraud. It is suspected that Csaba Czeglédy is a criminal organization controlled by Human Operator Zrt. Between 2013-16, more than HUF 3 billion were damaged by the Hungarian budget, 17 members of this criminal organisation are currently under arrest in advance. Csaba Czeglédy took out a loan of HUF 80 million from Altus Porfolio Zrt. linked to Ferenc Gyurcsány in order to pay the student's unpaid wages, but he did not do so. In addition to the damage to the state, the criminal organization controlled by Czeglédy was insolvent in May and June this year, on the basis of which nearly a thousand students did not receive their due wages and salaries, and this was managed by Csaba Czeglédy Human Operator Zrt. To date, he has not paid for it, so he has caused significant damage to these students. The injured students wait for their money, Csaba Czeglédy only promised it, but he did not pay it, while Csaba Czeglédy still paid HUF 2.4 million from Human Operator Zrt. to this day, more than a kilogram of block gold was seized from him in a secret Austrian safe, and he drives a luxury car of nearly HUF 60 million, while the students still run for their wages. [[An intervention from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame!]] Dear Secretary of State, The question is whether the government plans to compensate nearly a thousand injured students in order to get this amount as soon as possible and not to have to wait for the long and complicated legal procedure at the end of which the court may judge the damage that has been lost for the benefit of the students. Please, Mr Secretary of State, keep me informed on this and I look forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-16-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Pál Völner responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-16-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, The government and Fidesz consider it most important that the settlement of claims take place as soon as possible. On the other hand, we are shocked to hear that, according to press reports, several left-wing politicians are planning to openly stand up for Csaba Czeglédy. They don't seem to care about the victims, but they'd prefer to keep the stolen money in their pockets. [[15.30]] All good - feeling people are shocked to learn that decent students are cut short by withholding their wages and not paying them. In a letter to the Prime Minister and the Speaker, the National Association of Interest Representatives of vulnerable victims, the Hungarian Student Enterprises representing their legal representation, to assist in the public settlement of students who had been harmed by Csaba Czeglédy's company. In view of the vulnerable situation of the injured, the head of the Fidesz faction, Dr. Gergely Gulyás, submitted a proposal for a parliamentary decision on 10 October in which he asked the Hungarian government to pay compensation based on fairness. With the adoption of the resolution proposal, the Parliament could open the way for the fastest possible settlement of damages for victims. We hope that the socialists will also support this proposal. However, this settlement of claims should not result in the payment of compensation being exempted from the damage suffered by the injured party. Csaba Czeglédy, who has been under arrest for more than three months on suspicion of fiscal fraud, is not, by the way, a representative of the municipality of Szombathely to the MSZP and collects the salary of its representatives. Meanwhile, the number of victims is increasing, and Czeglédy and his socialist friends are doing nothing to help them. The amount of withheld income of students in the most vulnerable situation is estimated to be in the order of 100 million. The government is trying to make every effort to give injured students access to their unpaid wages. In addition to significant material damage, it is worth considering the psychological trauma that students have suffered by withholding their wages. [[Dr. László Kács: Come to the Quaestors, calm them down.]] I therefore consider it an important objective, in addition to the settlement of claims, for young people who have lost hope to be able again to believe in rewarding decent work, thereby restoring their faith in public confidence. Ferenc Gyurcsány was a returning actor in the corruption cases of the socialists, who helped Csaba Czeglédy with HUF 80 million not so long ago - or eliminated his company's absence, another question may arise. Corruption issues seem to be common in the House of Socialists, and we don't have to go that far in time. [[Dr. László Kács: Like Quaestor?]] , between 2002 and 2010, some 100 billion dollars of damage was done to Hungary by their dirty transactions. Earlier, János Zuschlag talked about the operation of a certain black cash register, a secret safe, a bear with the socialists. Surely the socialists are inexhaustible from secret hiding places. Remember the former vice president of the MSZP, Gábor Simon, who hid hundreds of millions of forints in an account in Vienna, and now new secret socialist safes have been found thanks to Csaba Czeglédy. [[Dr. László Kács: Is there anything else up your sleeve?]] It remains an open question whether he has migrated to the socialists with the stolen money, and if so, how much. [[Dr. László Kács: What's up your sleeve?]] If people have not turned away from them so far, they will certainly do so now, because the current left-wing section is nothing more than a desperate, decomposing party full of dirty matters. [[Dr. László Szakács: There are one or two other good cooperative organizers sitting in your ranks!]] To answer the question once again: the government supports [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: What about Flórian Farkas?]] in the settlement of claims for young people. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-16-80	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I will ask Congressman Gyula Budai if he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2017-10-16-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I think this is the worst crime ever committed by the MSZP and DK together. For the criminal organization operated by Csaba Czeglédy was more important to damage the state and collect campaign money than to pay for injured students who still run for their money. [[Dr. László Szakács: Budai, you speak so nicely, come with me to the Quaestorists, I'm sure you can convince them.]] I believe that in his reply he answered the question clearly that the government would do so. Thank you very much. I accept your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-16-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Interior: ! It's an address. Congressman György Szilágyi has the floor.
u2017-10-16-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Nearly a year and a half after you delegated the mandatory public chimney sweep to disaster management, it seems that the BM-OKF chimney sweeping body has capitulated under the weight of the task, since in the days of the amendment submitted by the Minister of Interior, it is an open admission that the body designated by the government cannot carry out the tasks deemed necessary for the protection of the population's lives and property. It seems that the government does not want to carry out its life and property protection tasks by amending the law, but rather wants to eliminate itself by administrative means, which goes against common sense. With the amendment, you have only one purpose: you want to pass on responsibility to the Hungarian people. In the justification of the amendment, you could only afford a very sweaty, incomprehensible explanation by saying: "This obligation is an administrative and temporal burden for the owner of the property. In order to remove this burden on the general public, it is appropriate to introduce work on the order in single-dwelling residential buildings, i.e. in the case of family houses instead of regular linework. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. You are in government, and you govern without understanding the reality of today's Hungarian reality. With the mandatory chimney sweep check in 2015, according to the old system, 11, in 2016, there were still more than double the number of deaths in the new system set up by you, 28 unfortunate deaths in the country. In Jobbik's view, this is precisely why the State must keep the mandatory chimney sweep check, because if it were not mandatory, no one, or very few, would use it, and this would lead to more deaths. You believe that it is because of the excessive administrative and temporal burden, which in reality meant that the resident had to justify the work with a single signature. So if you have to order a check, there won't be excessive administrative and temporal burdens, will there? You're trying to fool everyone again. State Secretary Pál Volner said that no one should think that the Hungarian government intends to introduce a measure that endangers people's lives. Mr Secretary of State, but we think that this is precisely a measure that endangers the lives of people and who has tabled this proposal is Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior of the Government. When will they finally realize that the chimney sweeping service system that you have transformed, which you have forced on Hungarian society, is inoperable and extremely dangerous? Jobbik will not support any bill that risks the safety of life and property of Hungarian people. We are on the side of the people, which is why we do not wish to assist the tragedy of any Hungarian family, the death of any Hungarian people, either at committee level or here in plenary, and we call on all Members of the Hungarian Parliament to do so. Why don't you take people's side, why don't you defend the Hungarian lives? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-16-84	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The interpellation will be answered by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-16-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I think that the one thing we can certainly agree on is that any injury or death caused by an accident or by any accident is a tragedy, and any such thing must be avoided. At the same time, I have to correct the figures that you have listed, as 9 deaths occurred in 2015 and two deaths in 2016, since in the first half of 2016 the old chimney sweep, which was not carried out by disaster control, had 11 fatal accidents, and in the second half there were 6 fatal accidents. But again, every accident, every injury is a disaster, and obviously we have to avoid them. However, it should also be noted that serious problems have already occurred in the chimney sweeping public service in 2014. Supply disruptions occurred in several counties, leading to the obligation to designate a public service provider who carried out these activities. In addition, the scope of the tasks to be performed during the chimney sweep increased during this period, since the presence of air supply had to be checked and the parameters of the combustion equipment checked. Honourable Congressman, When the Directorate-General for Disaster Protection took over part of the task and it should be stressed that part of the task, as local authorities are still carrying out this activity with former service providers in significant areas, was a priority to fill the personnel of the chimney sweeping body in order to recruit former workers, with appropriate professional experience and the necessary examinations, and to transfer them to disaster management. Based on the experience of the past nearly a year and a half, it can be clearly established, and the State Audit Office also notes in its paper on the examination of chimney sweeping services carried out by local authorities that there have been very serious problems with chimney sweeping services. [[15.40]] In large part, the chimney sweeping activity was limited by almost tax character to the collection of fees. This has also become apparent in the past year and a half, and the administration has had to be conducted in unprecedented quantities. In the case of chimney sweeping operations, disaster management personnel will carry out the control of more than 2 million 200 000 chimneys in disaster management by the end of the year, and there will be a completely clean state. It can be concluded that in many places there has been a lack of monitoring of chimneys for years or decades, but it can also be concluded that since 2016 there has been a record of the reasons for carbon monoxide in the apartments, such tests have not been carried out before. Based on last year's data, it can be concluded that in the case of accidents 40 percent of the burner, in Hungarian the heating or heating device caused carbon monoxide to enter the living space, while in the case of chimneys and drains, this is only 8 percent. Reviews of combustion plants and chimneys should continue to be carried out wherever there are condos and block dwellings, at the same time they can be performed in all individual homes, i.e. in a family house, and this service should be provided free of charge to citizens. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-16-86	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2017-10-16-87	Thank you very much for the floor. I cannot accept the answer, not even because, Mr Secretary of State, you are referring to false data here in Parliament, so you are also deceiving Parliament. [[Interjection from the lines of the MSZP: Is this true?]] The declarations of disaster protection also confirm that the data I have provided is credible. Now there are extremely serious problems with chimney sweeping, not with chimney sweeping. Secretary of State, but if you do not want to listen to Jobbik, at least listen to Professor Gyula Bándi, advocate for future generations, Deputy Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, who, in his own opinion, asks you to withdraw this proposal with which people's lives are threatened. The professor came to the Justice Committee in person and asked you to do the same, and the Fidesz MEPs from KDNP voted him out, and they did not listen to him. Or listen to Zsolt Semjén, your Deputy Prime Minister, who has just submitted a proposal that makes monitoring mandatory for gas leaks, which has not been mandatory so far, because he says that the system has not worked, that no one has asked for this control, that is also life protection. Then listen to those people. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] who tell you the same thing, but you seem to be burying your head in the sand and refusing people...
u2017-10-16-88	Congressman!
u2017-10-16-89	...to protect in Hungary. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-16-90	Dear Parliament, The congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I ask you if you will accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 29 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, László Varga, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister without a wallet for the development of county-righted cities:. When will they take action to develop Miskolc? It's an address. Mr László Varga has the floor.
u2017-10-16-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, In April 2015, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán visited Miskolc as the station of the. Modern Cities programme series, and, as has been the case since then, he signed an agreement with the mayor of the city. The announcement at that time included five chapters: the construction of the Miskolc-Kassa motorway and the Smart City programme, as part of which they promised to operate a fast and efficient city and to raise the number of CCTV cameras to 500. The third point promised the development of industrial areas, with a new industrial park of about a thousand hectares. The fourth point was a R &amp; D programme, and the fifth was the promise of bath development in Tapolca in the framework of tourism development, and later the development of the castle and its surroundings was promised as a separate point in Diósgyőr. With the measures announced some two and a half years ago, there are two fundamental problems with the programme package. One is that since then this series of programmes has reached many places, the Prime Minister has reached, and it is true that only on paper, for now only on paper, but more favourable agreements have been made for the majority of county-righted cities. On the other hand, the problem with this package is that since then nothing has happened in these cases in Miskolc's life. On the one hand, the M30 motorway would be established independently of this agreement as part of an international treaty. This is an investment that has, however, not shown much of itself since then, has not started much, yet it is nowhere. On the other hand, out of the remaining four points, they have actually reached the acquisition of some of the industrial park areas, but here they have no longer accepted my proposal to involve the brownfield rehabilitation of the area of DAM of some 135 hectares on this issue. On the other hand, the Miskolcs cannot see any progress in the other chapters. However, the Miskolcs are also right to expect to receive what they deserve from the programme package, which is mainly planned to be financed from EU funds. In fact, I think they deserve more, so I suggested supplementing this package with the already mentioned DAM brownfield rehabilitation, but the development of the Diósgyőr Castle Bath could also be interpreted in this package. This could include innovative improvements that can reduce the effects of many amazing air pollution, and the development of hospitals and specialist clinics in Diósgyőr is also essential. So I ask you, Minister, when will the Miskolcs feel the impact of the programme "Modern Cities"? Can this programme be supplemented by the items listed by me? Thank you, Mr. President. I look forward to the Minister's reply.
u2017-10-16-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Minister Lajos Kósa responds to the interpellation. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2017-10-16-93	Mr. President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, I have good news because many projects are in advanced condition within the framework of the Modern Cities programme with Miskolc. Perhaps if you look into it a little bit, you will see that the authorisation procedure for the M30 motorway is in progress, and it seems that this will end at the end of the year, at the beginning of next year, so the disputes that have otherwise prevented the start of the actual construction have been resolved. In the framework of the Smart City - Smart Miskolc programme, the equipment of the camera system is now being purchased, where the whole system has been fitted to the operation systems of the city of Miskolc, so the situation is that it is in a really advanced state; then you will certainly notice the cameras that we are installing in this framework. In the case of the industrial park, there are two industrial parks. One is a hundred or a few hectares, here are the contracts with the owners, and there is a 400-acre industrial park, which is really not easy, because it is connected to a thousand owners, and at the moment the city is still working on preparing a structural and regulatory plan for expropriation. In the case of the Castle of Diósgyőr, the government has decided to award 400 million HUF - here, of course, it is very serious to negotiate the protection of monuments, the archaeological exploration is in progress, and the design is already in the phase of the export plan in the case of sub-plans, beyond the licensed plans. So, overall, the Miskolcs will feel the benefits of this whole program, and I would just like to note that Miskolc has concluded a fourth largest contract with the government; in this case, it may be interesting to mention that the Hungarian government has signed a contract with Szeged, Szeged, with HUF 480 billion, and Miskolc has received only 251 billion. Of course, now our MSZP fellow Members may also say that it was a waste to support Botka with this 480 billion in the development programme. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: We thought the Szegedians!]] 'Cause, well, look at you, he let you down. I would add, of course, that there is probably no close link between the largest amount of aid and Botka's resignation, but as a matter of interest, I noted that Miskolc had entered into an unfavorable contract - the fourth most advantageous; without doubt, Botka had concluded the most advantageous contract. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Szeged! Not Botka!]] Too bad he let you down. I would like to add one more thing: your suggestion that we might amend the contract concluded under the programme of the Modern Cities, is an interesting suggestion. [[15.50]] I am open, by the way, and there have been some elements in the negotiations on the Mayor that should be considered. This, of course, should not involve an extension of the framework, but rather the possibility that other programmes could be added if the projects listed here could be carried out at a cheaper rate or if the municipality considered something else to be more important, but this could certainly be the result of a detailed conciliation meeting, because the contract can only be amended in relation to the same will of the two parties. Thank you for your attention, and please accept the answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-16-94	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman if he'll take the minister's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-10-16-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I can't accept the answer. The basic reason for this is this. According to data of 13 September 2017, only 10 percent of the total amount promised for all 23 cities with county rights was paid, all from EU sources. These amounts of EU funding would be due to residents of county-righted cities anyway, so I don't understand what you said about Szeged. In addition, in the case of Miskolc, this payment can be estimated at around 5% according to September data. What he said was that Miskolc had a good deal, the M30 was a very big element in this, which would be built under international treaties anyway, but instead of 2018 promised, only the 2022 date would be expected. Regarding the camera centre: this is why they want to shut down a long-standing cultural institution, the Youth House, which we reject, although obviously we support the camera center at another location. In any case, nothing happened in the others. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Not a single cut, so I'm open, Minister, for every trial for the Miskolcs. [[The president's ringing again.]] However, I cannot accept the answer today. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-10-16-96	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Minister's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the ministerial reply by 104 yes, 25 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Ákos Hadházy, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Congressman Ákos Hadházy has the floor.
u2017-10-16-97	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, A few weeks ago, I reported on the abused aid scheme, the benefits of which are spent on the interests of István Garancsi. The disabled could buy a used car with a state grant of HUF 600 000 only if they had their own money, and they were obliged to borrow a loan of HUF 300 000 from Duna Lezing, which is in Garancsi's interest, and on the other hand, they could borrow a new car only by forcing them to borrow a loan shark from Mr. Garancsi. Duna Lízing Zrt. It offers 17.4 percent of the total rate of charge, although on a market basis these types of loans are already available with 4-5 percent APR, and we can even find a zero-percent offer. However, with the Calculator of the Possibilities Car, it can be calculated that if someone takes on a HUF 1.2 million loan for example, they will have to pay more than HUF 700 thousand in 3 years, and so most of the state aid will be passed on to the company belonging to Garancsi's interest. A new car and only Suzuki can be bought in Budapest and around it only from Kapcságó Kft., which is also in Garancsi's interest. A few hours after my corruption info, Mr Lazarus announced at the government briefing that the EMMI would review the terms of the grant and stop the forced loan from 1 January. Mr. Secretary. Here are the questions. In addition to the abolition of forced credit, are there plans to abolish the severely restrictive and restrictive provision that only Suzuki-type cars and that can be purchased with State aid from a specific trader? Will they help those who previously had access to cars only with the constraints outlined above? The next question is whether they will ease the repayment terms of the authentic who are already moaning this 17.5 percent rate of charge. The next question is whether you intend to change the administrative and bureaucratic conditions and burdens that make most used car dealers not even talk to these disabled people. And perhaps the most important question is whether they will allow competition between banks and leasing companies by not only granting credit to the disabled by István Garancsi's company. Thank you very much. [[Marta Demeter applauds. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Iron Applause.]]
u2017-10-16-98	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-16-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Your speech to protect people with disabilities is strange, as you are well known for your failure to face court proceedings against the establishment of a restaurant in your neighbourhood with disabled people, complaining about the food smell that will spread there and the increase in traffic, and therefore also making the use of the garage more difficult for you to use. As a green representative, he considered the use of the garage to be more important and his parking space than the creation of seven jobs with disabilities in the neighbourhood, which you have been able to prevent for years with this legal affair, and seven people with disabilities have had a specific difficulty in their lives, or at least did not create a new chance for them. You will then speak here, honourable Member, and support a programme in which, on the one hand, we can help intellectual disabled people, autists, people with hearing disabilities and people with other disabilities in a programme in which, in 2011, when this transformation took place, which you criticized, we tripled, we increased the amount of support for the new vehicle to HUF 1 million. In the case of a used vehicle, we doubled the amount of aid, and tripled it for vehicle conversion, increased the guarantee framework for state aid to HUF 90 thousand. We have also tried to help people with disabilities buy cars in good technical condition. For three and a half thousand disabled people, this construction was good, useful, and used. A construction that is the Hungarian Suzuki Rt. and the Duna Lízing cooperation scheme, in which not only the State aid reduced the price, but also helped to obtain a significant discount from the list price of cars in addition to the acquisition aid. The financial service was, of course, selected through a tender procedure, so that this display process was also fully transparent. Our goal is to get this passenger car under regulated conditions under the most favourable conditions, under the most simple procedure. They're entering into a private financing contract. In the overwhelming majority of the beneficiaries, they would like to use the loan; the amount of this would obviously depend on each one's own strength. The minimum item is 25 thousand HUF, so this does not represent a particularly large administration for anyone or a later burden. To a large extent, this car is also used by those who need it, and they use this credit facility at a much higher source. This, however, provides an opportunity to monitor the condition of the vehicle continuously, to be in good condition, to be well maintained and to meet the specific needs constantly. In the case of used cars, the used car may not be more than five years old, but this can be used for any type of car. We strive to get as many new cars as possible, in excellent technical condition, with low service requirements, cheap maintenance and environmentally modern cars. In 2017 we also launched an additional new HUF 50 million application, which will help those who use wheelchairs or electric wheelchairs or have more disabled persons in the family. They are called Nonprofit Ltd. for Equal Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities. help. And we are also considering how to simplify the conditions even further in addition to the increased resources by 2018. We have tried to listen to those who have this proposal, and what has been simplification, we have already built it in, and we are open to incorporating simplification proposals if they are based on real needs. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-16-100	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2017-10-16-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I can't accept it, and not just because, as usual, when we ask about facts, the government is trying to discredit us, we're used to it. But even more disappointing than usual is your answer. [[16.00]] Once again, there is a certain discretion between Minister Lazarus and your opinion, just like with the ventilators. For the ventilators, Minister Lazarus also said that the procedure was unfair, and you said that everything was good. Here, too, the Minister said that this is a changeable and reprehensible thing, I think it is absolutely right; 17.5 percent interest on these loans when anyone goes anywhere from the street and can buy a car for 4-5 percent, it is quite amazing. So I do not understand why Mr Lazarus is not consulted. It's disappointing. I don't know how you could give that answer. Of course I won't accept it. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-16-102	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 101 votes in favour, 29 votes in favour and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. The quick and accurate diagnosis can save lives! It's an address. Congressman László Cook belongs to the floor.
u2017-10-16-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Obviously, you know that the leading cause of death is cancer. In Hungary, our doctors diagnose 80,000 new cancers, and we also know that cancer can only be cured or can be cured more easily if diagnosed as soon as possible. This can be diagnosed the easiest and fastest with such a PET-CT device and its process. This procedure has been applied in Hungary for 13 years. At present, there are eight centres of equipment and trained doctors. However, waiting lists have increased in the past period since the National Health Insurance Fund Manager managed these waiting lists from 1 April. During the summer, the administration in this area, i.e. the administration of access to it, was changed and the previous paper transfer was transferred to an electronic interface. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] In this connection, there was an EMMI regulation, which has never been published, but the point is that it should be applied to doctors who wish to refer someone to PET-CT, even though the ministerial regulations that have been in force since 2006 are still available for the treatment of waiting lists themselves, so it should be applied. In fact, what we see is that social security does not finance enough, it finances as much of the capacity as it could finance 30-31 thousand such studies, but precisely because of the changed legal environment, precisely because of the changed referral order, we can see that these PET-CT tests are largely dropped to 10-11 thousand from the current 20 thousand. So instead of 31 grand, you'd need 10, 11 grand, and you'd actually need 80,000. We believe that, on the one hand, if they could put more money into it, and, of course, there would be more institutions where these equipment is properly available and there are trained doctors, even if the legal environment is not enough to carry out so much scrutiny; because you have made it so difficult. In place of the previous one-step referral order, a three-step referral order was introduced for the use of PET-CTs, which the doctors do not really understand, and most importantly the biggest problem, which demoralizes them so that there is no need to justify it. Therefore, I would like to ask you when the EMMI will announce the conversion of the referral order, and why even patients need 60,000 forints in order to request PET-CT. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-10-16-104	Thank you, Congressman Cook. I salute my fellow Members and our guests. The interpellation will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-10-16-105	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Allow me to clarify some of the numbers you've told me. In 2017, the number of eligible cases financed by central care increased from 20,000 to 30 thousand compared to previous years, and in many more places, since there were five operators earlier, this type of investigation was now accepted by four additional operators. So you can do this in nine places instead of five, instead of 20,000 cases, in 30,000 cases. Allow me to compare it with the situation in 2010. In 2010 there were 107 such studies for 100,000 inhabitants and 100,000 inhabitants in Hungary, i.e. 107 for 100,000. This rose to 199 by 2015, with the result that Hungary was ranked 9th in the midfield, according to Eurostat's EU statements, and after further expansions, additional resources and increasing supply facilities, this increased to 306 cases. 306 cases of 100,000 inhabitants, estimated to be the 7th best place in the European Union this year. So while in your case 107 funded interventions were available for 100,000 inhabitants, now 306, so about 300 We can do this kind of test as before. And it is also important that health care itself is achieved by digitalization, as it is also in the interest of patients. So it's a transparent system for everyone, online, real-time, you can see exactly where the patient comes in, where there's free capacity, where they can handle them, where they can fix it on the spot, where they need extra capacity on the spot, where they might need to redirect the patient to get supplies as soon as possible. For this reason, in recent years, since this digital system has been operational or online, we have been able to start with 3,000 applications. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, From the completely transparent, transparent, online trackable data of this 3,000 data - so you could count on it - the average time from the referral to the completion of the investigation is 10.4 days. In the event that this is indicated somewhere as an extremely important, urgent intervention, this is what is in the indication, there is no need for any further decision, no further examination, you said there are more circles, no more circles, and from the doctor the referral goes directly to the PET-CT examining institution. In these cases, the average waiting time is even lower, from the referral to the study only 6-7 days. This is possible, among other things, because the government has provided a great deal of additional resources in recent years for cancer investigations, diagnosis, and cure of diseases. This was around 110 billion forints in 2010, which is now 180 billion forints, and in seven years we have increased the framework that can be used to cure cancer patients by 60 percent. Unfortunately, this is an area where more and more resources will probably be needed in the future, but in seven years we have managed to increase the framework from which we can cure cancer patients in Hungary by 60 percent. And despite the fact that 77 hospitals have been renovated in whole or in part since 2010, 23 new clinics have been built in Hungary, and 54 new clinics have been renovated, 30 new rescue stations have been built, and 104 rescue stations have been restored, 516 ambulances have been in service, all meaning that in the field of healing, cancer patients or other patients, the standards are now higher than in 2010, and we would like to continue this in the coming years. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-16-106	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr Cook if he accepts the answer to the interpellation.
u2017-10-16-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, If you had 15 more seconds, you probably could have read another government brochure. However, I think that you should not go to VIP health, and you will see today's real health conditions if you go into any of the normal clinics. He writes 20 and 30,000 cases, that's what's really set in the funding, but it's mostly one third of that, because of administrative online treatment and because of its lack of knowledge and its inability to use, so the number of cases that you can use at PET-CT is reduced to about 10,000 and one third, that's your fault. You know very well that if you had changed anything, you would have had to run the old system next to it for six months until the new system was introduced. It doesn't provide doctors with safety, and it certainly doesn't cure patients. Thank you very much. I don't accept the answer. [[16.10]]
u2017-10-16-108	Thank you very much. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes in favour, 29 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Since we are within the time frame of interpellation, I would like to give the floor to Congressman Gergely Farkas, Jobbik, who has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor.
u2017-10-16-109	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Jobbik has repeatedly expressed the fact that no government has been able to increase student scholarships for ten years now. The Orbán government, which has been Regent for seven years, has not done this either. This is untenable, and it is urgent to remedy it, because in ten years the students' expenses have increased greatly, while the scholarship has remained ridiculously low. In most cases, parental backgrounds are not able to finance expenditure on children's higher education studies. This therefore has an impact on further education, because many do not start or continue their higher education because they do not have financial coverage. Thus, your education policy is increasingly leading to privileged access to higher education, and the wallet determines the possibility of further education rather than the importance of diligence and knowledge. It is also amazing and sad that, on the basis of the 2018 budget that you have adopted, students will not be able to expect more money next year, and even specifically voted against Jobbik's proposal for a amending budget. It's a young man's slap in the face. It's very timely and it's due to be raised. Student expenditure, such as housing, which, due to the low number of college seats, becomes even more expensive through high rental prices, educational expenditure, transport, daily spending presents young people with challenges that are impossible to overcome with current scholarships. Not only Jobbik, but HÖOK also believes that it would be time for the government to introduce at least 40 percent increase in student scholarships in the framework of a structural reform. Dear Secretary of State, The minimum amount of the scholarship is HUF 6,000, and on average HUF 11-12 thousand. This amount, to put it mildly, dwarfs in addition to the fact that according to the most conservative estimates, an average college student lives from 50-60 thousand forints a month. The proposed increase of at least 40 per cent would amount to an additional expenditure of approximately HUF 12 billion for the State. This, let's face it, shouldn't be a problem with a budget of 18 000 billion. This is a total of 6,000 per cent of the budget, I repeat, six per cent of the budget. I can also say that this extra expenditure is dwarfing with the entire budget. Undoubtedly, raising student scholarships, as we have seen in so many other things, is a matter of will and will. The situation is clear: unfortunately, you have given up on young people. The question arises whether the Orbán government either does not want to raise or is simply unsuitable for this task. I think that neither is acceptable, neither is acceptable. The question is: why hasn't the government been able to raise student scholarships once in seven years? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-16-110	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to ask Mr. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond.
u2017-10-16-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In recent years, we have tried to improve the situation of higher education with scholarships, new scholarships and higher education workers' wage increases. Of course, we remember the story of the birth of Jobbik. Instead, you made freshman or freshman student lists, where sometimes someone's gender, physical abilities, political attitude or origins were written in the table next to his name, and the former founder's betterbie smiled. Many people also remember that this was the way they joined the audience. Students' dignity was so important to Jobbik to add to the names of the students that I would not say in the minutes of the Parliament. But obviously, Jobbik is trying to insult the elderly, and to get something from the calculation and current polling around the young by demanding higher scholarships. Obviously, this is better for them than their own party financing scandal with Lajos Simicska, and it is obviously more advantageous than why they do not support it when certain items are raised for the benefit of young people in the budget. You all know the positive changes in student loans. Allow me to list a positive change in one or two scholarships. The National Excellence Programme 2012-15 1919 [[It's constant noise. In the last rows of the Fidesz-KDNP fraction, some Members speak standing up. The president's ringing the bell.]] an excellent Hungarian student received a scholarship; we were able to support them with a HUF 5.1 billion grant in this program. Students, educators and researchers' scholarships of the new national excellence programme provide 5-10 months' support, in which they can receive 40 percent extra research-operation support. The amount of this is constantly rising, 75 and 350 thousand...
u2017-10-16-112	With all due respect, my fellow Members, have a seat. [[It's ringing. Dóra Dúró to Dr. Bence of Rétvári: They haven't sat down yet, so wait.]] Thank you very much. Go on, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-16-113	The sum was around HUF 2 billion. In the 2017-18 academic year, the budget of this scholarship will be doubled to HUF 4 billion, from HUF 2.2 billion to HUF 4 billion. 1900 students, 1900 students can benefit from this. Klebelsberg training scholarship also represents 125 thousand and 375 thousand HUF per semester scholarship. It's been used by 1517. It's a new scholarship. They're gonna grow 400 to 500 in this year's school year. The Hungarian sports star scholarship is new, which means 120-240 thousand HUF support. This year we introduced the Michaelicz Scholarship from September, which is to support the training of nurses with a higher education degree. In the first semester, this scholarship is between HUF 640 thousand and HUF 320-640 thousand from the second semester onwards. This is another HUF 1.15 billion in student allowances in this year's budget and in next year's budget. Forints 500 million is the national grant of excellence and academic law, which was also introduced as a new scholarship programme by this government. In 2016, the funding of the National Talent Programme increased to HUF 2.8 billion. Most of this can be translated into individual scholarships. The scholarship for the young talents of the Nation is also an opportunity for students in primary, master and doctoral or undivided education to receive additional benefits in addition to primary and secondary school students. The PhD students' scholarship from 1 September 2016 in a new four-year training system increases from 100 thousand forints to 140 thousand forints per month, and in the second two years we raised it to 180 thousand forints. This also represents a surplus of HUF 833 million, and I could tell you how many scholarships we have raised in recent years. We do not think that we have come to the end of this task. [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] because discussions with the National Conference of Students' Local Governments have started, we will continue to do so, and with them we will develop the forms of scholarship increase that will be provided to students in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-16-114	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2017-10-16-115	Mr. Secretary, aren't you ashamed to be here repeating lies about Jobbik instead of responding substantially to the suggestions of students and students? ! It would be worth responding to the fact that a 4.8 average student receives HUF 8 000 as a scholarship, while, let's say, he only has to pay 80 thousand forints for rent, and there are absurd examples that show how difficult it is for young people - you didn't mention it. All he could say was that after seven years, after seven years of government, negotiations with HÖOK were started. Well, congratulations. Seven years was enough for you to start this trial. And you've been talking about a few partial scholarships involving a few hundred people, instead of talking about a scholarship involving hundreds of thousands of young people and all college students. Shame on you, Mr. Secretary. Of course, I cannot accept this answer, and I hope that there will be substantial changes in this area as soon as possible, if not later, during the Jobbik government. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Let's wait for that.]] [[16.20]]
u2017-10-16-116	Thank you very much. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes in favour, 28 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We'll move on to immediate questions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. We'll move on to immediate questions. Sándor Burány, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is the situation? It's an address. Prime Minister Sándor Fazekas appointed Minister for Agriculture to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the responding person or if he asks for the answer in person.
u2017-10-16-117	Mr. President, I won't accept it. I'll wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you.
u2017-10-16-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Gergely Bárándy, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:, Relatives, buddies, and others 5? It's an address. Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will personally ask Mr President for an answer.
u2017-10-16-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd wait for Mr. Matolcsy, he's always in the mood. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-16-120	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Legény, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Attorney General an immediate question: "Is there an order to cover up Fidesz crimes? It's an address. Mr. Attorney General has appointed Mr. István Lajtár Deputy Attorney General for an urgent public service. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he is asking for the answer personally from the Attorney General.
u2017-10-16-121	I accept, of course.
u2017-10-16-122	Thank you very much. Then Congressman Zsolt Legény should take the floor.
u2017-10-16-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Deputy Prosecutor General, I have already stated in the title of my immediate question whether there is an order from the Fidesz or the government to the prosecutor's office in certain criminal matters. This is what we want to know, because we see that in the criminal case of Csaba Czeglédy - in which Csaba Czeglédy and his associates were accused - we can practically follow the procedure in a lively manner on the non-government pages, and practically everything goes out in the investigation, but we also have seen it, and here I could name the Fidesz involvements either in Mr Simonka's case or in Flórian Farkas's case or Roland Mengyi's case, when the prosecutor's office always referred to the fact that, in view of the interests of the investigation, it did not provide any data, and let us say that nothing could be revealed. We have experienced this surprisingly, and we also claim that it is in the best interests of the Fidesz and the Fidesz prosecutors' office that these cases take place in this way. Therefore, our question is clear: is there an order for you from Fidesz? We think it seems as if there is, it seems that these cases are politically motivated, either because of the investigation or because of the slowness of the investigation or the bumpyness of the investigation. Therefore, as I said, I could list a very, very large number of Fidesz involvements in what it is when the investigation is slow, and there is almost nothing the prosecutor's office is willing to say, even to request data, while there are politically motivated cases in which practically the entire investigative material is up-to-date almost immediately, as we have said, on sites not independent of the government or Fidesz. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-10-16-124	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Attorney General István Lajtár.
u2017-10-16-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As a lawyer, you are also obviously aware of the nature of your immediate question, the fact that its title and content cannot be interpreted in connection with the prosecution's activities. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Unfortunately, yes, I do.]] However, in order to promote the Member's clarity, I would like to inform him of the following. In accordance with the provisions of the Fundamental Law, the Public Prosecutor's Office, acting as an intermediary of justice, enforces the State's criminal claim. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: We know the law.]] The fact that he is involved in a specific criminal case, either as a criminal offence or as a victim or as a burden, is of no relevance to the judgment and decision of the case, as is the difference between the position, occupation or position of the perpetrator of the offence. In this context, there are only two things that are relevant, firstly, if a complaint does not contain any data indicating that a criminal offence has been committed and, secondly, if, as a result of the investigation ordered, it is found that no criminal offence has been committed. In the previous case, the complaint must be rejected and, in the latter case, the investigation must be terminated. As regards the decision, only the facts involved in the complaint or which have become apparent in the course of criminal proceedings have relevance. This has also happened in the cases you mentioned. Finally, I note that the prosecution categorizes criminal matters, unlike the Member, not on the basis of political involvement, but on the basis of the existence or absence of criminal liability. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Now, that's a good joke! Then why does one go out and the other doesn't? You didn't answer the question!]]
u2017-10-16-126	I thank István Lajtár for his reply, the Deputy Prosecutor General. I'll give the floor to the congressman for a rejoinder in a minute.
u2017-10-16-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Deputy Prosecutor General, We are aware of the legislation that you have listed, but we would like to ask you to comply with this legislation. So we ask you to comply with this legislation, because we know it. The question is clear: have they done anything to prevent the leaks from happening to this extent in the prosecutor's office? Have you conducted an internal investigation? 'Cause what we see on these pages, as I mentioned, is that, almost up-to-date, there are certain information out there, which, by the way, is generated within the D.A.'s office, and there are documents inside the D.A.'s office. Did they have an internal investigation? Did they do that? Have you found anyone responsible? Have they ever done anything to prevent these things from being revealed and affect the conduct of criminal proceedings through the public? Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-10-16-128	Thank you, Congressman. The rejoinder shall also apply to the Deputy Prosecutor General.
u2017-10-16-129	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, As I have already pointed out, in the course of the prosecution's work, unlike Congressman, you cannot apply any other aspect other than the requirements of legality. In accordance with their oath, prosecutors shall enforce only the laws in force on the matter, irrespective of the identity of the persons concerned. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You won't answer the question!]] Any other assessment of a criminal case is outside the prosecution's activities. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You're breaking house rules, Mr. President. It's worth an answer.]] The D.A. has conducted and will continue to conduct all necessary investigations, if appropriate. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-16-130	Thank you for your rejoinder. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What country are you building?" It's an address. Prime Minister Sándor Fazekas appointed Minister for Agriculture to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will personally ask the Prime Minister for the answer.
u2017-10-16-131	I'll wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[16.30]]
u2017-10-16-132	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Ádám Mirkóczki, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question, "Who is the national security risk?" It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Károly Kontra as Secretary of State for his reply in response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2017-10-16-133	I'll take it.
u2017-10-16-134	Thank you very much. This is for Congressman Adam Mirkóczki.
u2017-10-16-135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I do not want to continue the debate that we started last week, if you will, on the National Security Committee. However, without leaking any classified information here, since there was nothing to be said about me to relate to the previous debate, it is safe to conclude that the fact that you have been flooding the country as a Soros plan every day and are instigating Hungarian society is too much that the Hungarian authorities, to put it mildly, cannot really say much about its existence, its reality, its relevant or irrelevant national security risks, or the actual threat. On the other hand, cases that come to light in different ways are increasingly common, but, in terms of weight and simple, solid facts, they are more likely to fall into the category of national security risk. Such was all that came to light in connection with the bond business, such was the Moscow visa factory, or let's just think about the Kiss Szilárd case in general, but this was the collection of more and more interesting and more twisted information about the Pharaon case. And this is also the case of the recently re-thematicated Honorary Jordanian Consul Zaid Naffa. The common thread in these matters, in which it is almost without a doubt established that they involve a certain degree of national security risk, is that they represent almost without exception transactions closely linked to the members of the government, where appropriate to the Prime Minister or to the family of the Prime Minister. Which is why I ask the Secretary of State to answer honestly once in a lifetime, given the national security risk, who is the greater national security risk: a man you claim to be, and your propaganda claims that he is, or a man who is flesh and blood, and that his affairs come up every day? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-16-136	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra.
u2017-10-16-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, At the meeting of the National Security Committee on 11 October, I answered the question of the Soros Plan, which was held in a closed session. With the rules and the consistency of this, all I'm saying is I told you there too, and I'll tell you here that Plan Soros exists. As regards the questions you are asking, you know clearly what the situation is, honourable Member. The fact is that their wage Union initiative has failed is that they have a partner country, Latvia, from which no supporting signatures have been received, according to the Commission website collecting signatures. If we look at the partners of Jobbik's initiative abroad, we will find such people as the Croatian Frano Čirko, who has been shown in the press and their Romanian partner, according to some press information, is a figure working near Romanian intelligence services. You would entrust the wage increase to a Croatian neo-Nazi, a Romanian spy and an EU bureaucrat. You probably don't even mean that, let alone the voters. If Jobbik were really interested in wage increases, the party president would have voted at the end of last year for tax reductions that would facilitate wage increases in Hungary. Honourable Congressman, These are the real risks. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-16-138	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2017-10-16-139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, It's clear that you responded at the closed meeting of the National Security Committee, but it's even more clear that I didn't ask you, but the leaders of the civilian secret services that are here, who have buried their heads in their hands, were so embarrassing for them that we have to talk about this existing risk. As regards the answers made by the Secretary of State, help him find a legal pass that excludes the participation of any European Union citizen from a citizens' initiative. Because if he were like this, I would understand your answer, but there is no such thing; everyone has a right. I'd appreciate it if you'd join us instead of trying to evasively respond to such nonsense. But the point is that if we start from the person of the Prime Minister and the affairs that surround him, they do not feel the relevance of the fact that, in Hungary, of the political leaders that may act on the substantive secret services, only the Prime Minister is not subject to due diligence. This is what I think we should think about, and the cases I have mentioned, which are only fragments, do justify this. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-16-140	Thank you very much. The rejoinder also deserves the Secretary of State.
u2017-10-16-141	Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Congressman! You know the Hungarian legislation in force. He is a member of the National Security Committee and can answer the question himself. But allow me, since you mentioned Béla Kovács, [[Adam Mirkóczki: I didn't mention it.]] who is a better-looking MEP [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Béla Kovács, who is being investigated for espionage, has also been suspended by the European Parliament on another matter in May this year, so they are investigating him not only for espionage but also for fiscal fraud; honourable Member, these are the real dangers and the real task is to eliminate them. We are confident that we will succeed in this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-16-142	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Ákos Hadházy, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Why does the government resign from some of the people? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Sándor Fazekas Minister for Agriculture to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2017-10-16-143	I'll take the person, but we'd rather have the Prime Minister answer. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2017-10-16-144	Thank you very much. I would like to point out that the Prime Minister must reply at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél and Ákos Hadházy, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title of Government and Reality. I ask the Member if he accepts Minister Sándor Fazekas, who has been appointed by the Prime Minister to answer for an urgent public task.
u2017-10-16-145	We'd like to wait here for the Prime Minister.
u2017-10-16-146	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office an immediate question:, Settle Bonds: Who is behind the money laundering network III.? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Csaba Dömötör State Secretary to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding.
u2017-10-16-147	Mr President, unfortunately, I am obliged to accept it, because Antal Rogán is so brave that he has been running away from my questions for months, so I accept Mr Secretary of State.
u2017-10-16-148	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter.
u2017-10-16-149	Thank you. Mr. Secretary. While you are conducting national consultations on the non-existent Soros plan from billions, I would like to know why you do not ask the Hungarian people and why you do not consult them on the residency bond programme. Why don't you ask the Hungarian people how they feel about you knowingly and organizedly bringing 20,000 immigrants into Hungary and the Schengen area uncontrolled just because they paid you and your friends? Why don't you ask the Hungarian people how they feel about this decision being made over their heads, endangering the security and sovereignty of the country, without asking them, just so that offshore companies close to the government can make HUF 180 billion, of which only the company associated with Antal Rogán's name made HUF 140 billion? Why don't you ask the Hungarian people how they feel about the fact that this has already caused the Hungarian State a loss of approximately HUF 13 billion, because they will have to repay this loan with their tax-paying money, which these people have given in exchange for the residence permit? Why don't you ask people what they think about the fact that only the company connected to Antal Rogán allowed around 1500 immigrants in 2016 alone, or 200 more immigrants than Hungary would have to assess its asylum application at the decision of the European Court of Justice? [[16.40]] So they are not consulted, and it is not enough that they do not consult, but they are not even willing to answer the questions. That's why I'm holding on to the questions. How did these offshore companies know that Antal Rogán would submit a bill to the Hungarian Parliament on the day after the company was set up, making 140 billion forints? [[Dr. István Apáti: Suspicious! It's very suspicious.]] What did Antal Rogán agree with the designated official of the Russian Parliament about the residency bond scheme, meaning that the foreign government is involved in this? My last question is how much money Viktor Orbán is getting from all of this, so that we know that he is the only one who has not yet undergone a national security screening, and there is no guarantee that he would not be the biggest security risk to Hungary. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-10-16-150	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör.
u2017-10-16-151	We are in the hour of immediate questioning, honourable Member. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Really? Dr. István Apáti: The final hour!]] But the things you have said are not questions, but slanders disguised as questions, so as before, we reject them this time as well. At the same time, we would like to take this opportunity to tell you once again that the establishment programme is not an immigration issue, but an investment issue. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Depends on who!]] This is a programme based on international patterns, which does not bring money, but brings money to the country. With the help of the program Hungary could obtain funds much cheaper than other bond schemes [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: A year or two!]] This programme could have contributed to the fact that the Hungarian economy is now more stable. You often bring up security aspects. That is why I would like to tell you that the claimants are also being investigated by the Immigration Office, the TEK, the police, the Constitutional Protection Office. For the longest time, we regret that you regularly insult the Hungarian authorities and the services who are doing their job. Surely their hopeless situation justifies the attack on this programme after the government has already decided to take it out. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: No, not about your release!]] Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-16-152	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter a one-minute rejoinder.
u2017-10-16-153	Secretary of State, to whom this construction has made money, government circles and offshore companies that have made HUF 180 billion on this. So he brought them money, but it is a loss for the Hungarian state. Convicted criminals must have come in with this bonding program and construction. You know that very well. And before you exonerate all the organizations, I'm just saying, obviously, the accountability will not only concern the political parties who sold out the security of the country, but also the heads of the state agencies who assisted in this. And not only in the residency bond program, but, as we have heard several times, you must be familiar with the Pharaon case, the Kiss Szilárd case, and we could also list when and how the heads of state agencies who should be guaranteeing security are allowed to wander into and out of the country by terrorists. The other is how deceitful what they say; I continue to maintain the same questions to Antal Rogán. Mr. Dumpster, you answered these questions. [[He's showing me a document.]] At the time, in April, it seems that although it's a propaganda response, it's still a government function. There is also László Fat's answer, for he ran to the point of not having to answer Antal Rogán. [[He's presenting another document.]] According to this, it is now suddenly a non-governmental task to answer the issues related to the construction. That tells me everything. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-10-16-154	Thank you very much. The rejoinder also applies to Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary.
u2017-10-16-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If someone were to allow terrorists to enter Hungary, the left would, unfortunately, be added to Jobbik. [[Noise from Jobbik's benches. Dr. Gábor Staudt:]] I'm sure Ron Werber's work is that you're talking about security risks, while your current party is completely ignoring the security risks of illegal migration when you bring up the security issue. If these security risks are so important to you, I suggest you ask your new party partners why they should regularly vote for the resettlement quota in Brussels. [[Márta Demeter: That's not true!]] , resolutions in support of it. And please ask your new partymates why they're denying this here at home, here in Parliament, anyway. Since you have come from a party that supports resettlement and then has moved to a party that also supports it, we cannot accept a lecture from you on security issues. If there is a dangerous establishment in Hungary, then it is the establishment of Ron Werber. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-16-156	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Péter Ágh, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:, How can Hungary defend the borders of Europe and our country, while terrorism is raging around the world? It's an address. The Minister asked Mr Károly Kontra to reply. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[On the sign of Péter Ágh:]] It says yes. Congressman Péter Agh has the floor.
u2017-10-16-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, It is a well-known fact for all of us that today, thanks to the failed migration policy of the European Union, people live in fear all over Europe when they go to a concert, get on the subway or go to the beach in the summer heat. Nice, Barcelona, Berlin, Paris, Brussels, and so on. A series of terrorist attacks are affecting not only Europe, but the whole world. Remember the tragedies that have occurred on other continents. So, security, we can say, is a priority. At the same time, some European leaders, or we could say that the safety of the people is not the priority for Brussels, but, as far as possible, the introduction of a large flood of people, the distribution of them among countries, and then the support of these people by millions of forints. And to do so, can you give out ammunition in both material and spiritual terms? Today it has become clear that you are George Soros. It must be absolutely clear to everyone that the concept of illegal migration in Brussels is about nothing but the implementation of the Soros Plan. To attract millions of people, to distribute them among Member States and then to support them with taxpayers' money. We Hungarians do not wish to participate in this. Dear Secretary of State, Of course, terrorism can happen anywhere in the world, including in our country, but we still need to ask why a small Central European country, as our country, can effectively defend Hungary's borders and Europe's borders in contrast to the great countries of Europe. Why is the protection of European citizens a priority only for the Hungarian government, and how have we been able to make Hungary one of the ten safest countries in the world this year? How can Hungary defend the borders of Europe and our country, while terrorism is raging around the world? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-16-158	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-16-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Today, order and security are the most important community values in Europe and around the world, giving us the opportunity to thrive on everyday life, giving us the most important conditions for our daily lives. There are two types of countries in Europe today: where life is safe and where it is not. Hungary is one of the safest countries in Europe, thanks to our good police officers. On 9 October 2017, in Budapest, in the Heroes' Square, another 227 deputy officers took their solemn oath. In the last seven and a half years, the Hungarian police have earned people's trust and appreciation, and the work of Hungarian police deserves respect, as in recent years the borders of Hungary and Europe have been protected while the country's public security has improved. Allow me to quote some facts about this. The number of high-level crimes was around 54 thousand less than in 2010, which represents a 51 percent reduction. With regard to the same crimes, the investigative performance index increased by 13 percent. In order to improve public security, the provision of 24-hour public space presence, the almost full uploading of district agents and the progress of border hunting training in accordance with the plans should be mentioned in particular. There is a steady increase in the number of law enforcement agencies, and the situation caused by a permanent shortage of staff before 2010 has ceased. This is due to a career model introduced by the Government, which entered into force on 1 July 2015, resulting in an average salary increase of 50 per cent for the professional staff of law enforcement agencies by 1 January 2019. We are currently at a 40 percent increase, and an additional 5 percent average increase will be made on 1 January 2018. The bill on this is already before this House. I ask my fellow Members to support it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-16-160	Thank you very much. Mr Péter Agh is entitled to a rejoinder. [[16.50]]
u2017-10-16-161	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. From what you've said, I think it's clear that the police and the military are making a lot of effort to keep security safe. As a result, not only the safety of Hungarians, but also a large number of tourists arriving here can spend their time in safety, and at the same time they can be sure that no terrorist attacks can take place here, as they are also working to prevent them. So the government is on the right track, and the police, the military, are doing exemplary work for which - we can say - respect is due. We hope that we will continue on this path. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-16-162	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, László Varga, representative of the MSZP requires an immediate question... [[Charles Kontra stands up. Dóra Dúró: Still responding! Dr. Gábor Staudt: Irrelevant. We know what he's gonna say.]] I'm sorry. Mr. Secretary of State is also entitled to a rejoinder. Excuse me. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-10-16-163	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It is very important to emphasise that the government provides the necessary resources for the operation of the police in the annual budget. This is also due to the fact that, for example, on the day of the solemn oath on 9 October, 387 vehicles were handed over to the police, including four thermal imaging systems mounted on a mobile vehicle. And if we consider the 2018 budget, the police will receive 22 billion HUF more funding next year than in 2017. [[István Szávay: We should also turn to the border crossings!]] The government uses all means to maintain the effective operation of the police, to protect Hungary's order and public security, to protect and ensure the safety of Hungarian people. But not only the Hungarian people, but also the protection of the Schengen external borders and the protection of the southern border, we also contribute to the protection of Europe. Thank you for your question and thank you for your support. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-10-16-164	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Varga, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question. It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. It's a sign of yes with your eyes. [[Dr. László Varga: I accept Mr. Secretary of State.]] Then I give the floor to Congressman László Varga.
u2017-10-16-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Tomorrow is the World Day for Combating Poverty, and I would like to have a dialogue with you on a number of issues, specifically regarding your governance. That is why I ask in advance - with a change of tone - not to point back to the period before 2010, you have been ruling for seven and a half years. I am very serious that all questions will be specific to your governance. First of all, I think it would be a great help to millions of people living in a difficult line if they finally followed the MSZP's proposal to reduce the VAT on basic foods to 5%. Europe's peak is 27 percent VAT, which affects most basic food. You introduced this, it wasn't like this before. So what I'm asking you is when the basic food tax is reduced to 5%. The price of firewood should also be reduced to 5 percent, since the price of firewood is skyrocketing, firewood is missing. This weekend, I've seen a larger warehouse selling a forest cubic meter for 38,000 forints. It's amazing, by the way. This heating mode affects the most vulnerable. Two or three years ago, it was possible to buy a properly prepared forest cubic meter for 22-23 thousand forints. So when are you gonna cut your firewood tax? When the minimum wage is taxed, as 15 percent of it is taxed. Before 2010, before you governed, this was tax-free. This would be a significant relief for the smaller earners. I would also like to ask, if the world market price for gas has fallen by about half since the summer of 2014, when will the price of natural gas be reduced for the general public, for at least the average consumption, as it would be possible to reduce 32 percent in our view. This can be done up to the average consumption. And it's obvious, because the Hungarian Gas Dealer Zrt. His profits, which he takes from people, could be implemented. I'm asking you to answer my questions. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-10-16-166	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-10-16-167	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It would be a surprising debate if only the left could talk about the governance period of the right, and the right could not talk about the governance period of the left. It is customary to talk about these times, honourable Member, because every party can say beautiful things, every party can promise great things, only some can carry out its promises, can do good for people, and others cannot. You know, it's like if you, like, didn't do well in high school math, you didn't say I wasn't gonna ask you what number of maths you have, just someone come and tutor you. Because it doesn't matter if you ask someone who has an "A" or someone who has an "A." Obviously, it's worth getting tutored by someone with an A. That's why it's important to know who and what he did in his past. 'Cause you can say here that you're asking the government to cut the rent, but the government has done so in recent years, and you've reduced the average fees by 25 percent. And in your day, not only did it not decrease, but the price of the individual bills has increased by 100 or 200 percent. That's a big difference. It is also important to talk about poverty, who has a job, who doesn't. It is worth comparing: in our seven and a half years, 770 thousand more people have worked, during your period the number of unemployed has increased by 250 thousand. These are not only differences in quantity, but also in quality. We reduced the VAT on basic foods, pork, poultry, milk, eggs when it was possible for basic foods that people buy in the store to pay the lowest possible tax rates. In addition, we tried to reduce VAT on the Internet and other items. As far as firewood is concerned, honourable Member, we have raised this framework, we have introduced a much higher framework than in Hungary, but we have increased the budget of HUF 3 billion by an additional HUF 1 billion. We support 2255 municipalities worth HUF 4 billion to give people free firewood, hard leafwood firewood 3.5 billion, soft leafwood 77 million and brown stone coal for HUF 421 million. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-10-16-168	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor back to Congressman László Varga.
u2017-10-16-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I lost a bet because it didn't have much effect on my approach to the questions in a different way, you answered in the same dimension. So they're just saying their own propaganda. Obviously, you can mention the reduction in costs here, but the world market price for natural gas has decreased by half, so this will determine the final prices to a large extent. And people don't get the low prices they could actually get. It's because of your government. 600,000 immigrants have migrated, which is why unemployment in the first place is decreasing. The fact is that 600,000 of our fellow countrymen thought they couldn't make it in this country and looked elsewhere for their prosperity. What he said about basic foods is just a very small part of what really needs to be done. And firewood is simply not allowed to people, because it's such a shortage. A month and a half in advance and only at horror prices. So over the past seven and a half years, the poor have become poorer, the rich have become richer. That's why more and more people are saying no to your government. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-10-16-170	Thank you, Congressman. The Secretary of State is also entitled to a rejoinder.
u2017-10-16-171	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You know, in 2006, the socialists already had a VAT reduction programme, I think they lived four months; what was reduced before the elections was then raised back and people had to pay more than before. If we look at how much people made, how much their net income was without family tax in 2010, we can see that they made 132 thousand forints. This has now increased to 197,700 forints, and I stress that the net earnings are without any family tax reduction. That's a 50 percent increase. If I look at how much the person who earns the least, who earns the minimum wage, we see that the minimum wage increases from 73 500 to 138 thousand forints to 18 000 forints. That's an 88 percent increase. Thus, even the average income increase is higher than the average income, since the average increase in earnings is 49 percent net, without any family discount. With a family tax discount, this is much higher, but even without family tax relief, 49 percent, i.e. essentially 50 percent, and 88 percent for the smallest earners. The salary of the smallest earners has increased more than the average increase in earnings. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-10-16-172	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question about the emptiness. It's an address. The Minister asked Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to answer for him because he was kept from performing his public duties. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding. [[On Dóra Dúró's mark:]] He nodded his head.
u2017-10-16-173	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2017-10-16-174	Yeah. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor. [[17.00]]
u2017-10-16-175	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Since your government, 90,000 Hungarian children have been born abroad, 600 thousand of our countrymen have migrated, and the representative survey of the KSH shows that another 400 thousand will follow their countrymen in the near future, within a few months. They are the ones who have already been informed about long-term foreign residence and employment opportunities. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs will be replaced by Attila Gelencsér, István Ikotity.]] Secretary of State, this is a serious problem. It's like if we were in a primary school, when we went into the school building in September, we'd find the first-grade halls empty, because there weren't any of those kids there. These kids aren't there, Mr. Secretary, and these kids are missing. The Hungarians who have migrated miss their parents, their grandparents, their friends and colleagues, and the state also miss them, Mr. State Secretary. And what do you do? Nothing. They're basing it, they're lying, they're trying to deny it, they're talking about adventure when they're supposed to talk about misery and coercion. They can't solve this problem, because they're simply getting rid of its existence. Jobbik has a solution, Mr. Secretary. This is what the Wages Union is all about, so that equal pay for equal work in the European Union, because a Hungarian man's work is worth nothing less than the work of a Western European man. We want these people to come home, and we are doing everything we can to make sure that they can see Hungary as their country again. But you're not doing anything, Mr. Secretary. Why do they not want these people to be back in Hungary, to increase Hungary and to populate Hungary? Please don't deny the problem in your answer now, but try to respond substantially to what I have said. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-16-176	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-10-16-177	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, He gave a mysterious title to his speech, gave the title. I've been thinking about what's behind this. I remembered Jobbik's Forum on Health in Nagymaros, four people were present - this empty room could have been here. I was wondering if the party register was empty, but it was uploaded by Lajos Simicska, so it's not empty. Or Gábor Vona's saying that I gave the soul of Jobbik, I took it, so this kind of spiritual emptiness in Jobbik; or the empty set of principles that Jobbik has held since 2010 contains its principle objectives. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: What are you afraid of, Bence? You want to talk about it?]] But on the other hand, he raised a really important question - although not that these are important - because throughout Central Europe, many younger or middle-aged people think that they are trying to get lucky and work there in Western Europe. Hungary is not one of the countries of Central Europe where this ratio would be highest. It is not from here that most people leave either in absolute numbers or in proportion, and not only, let us say, Romania can be mentioned as an example, but also Poland or other countries. [[György Szilágyi: So everything is fine. We don't need these 600,000 people.]] where a lot more people are trying their luck abroad. This is true of many Central European countries that young people work in Western Europe, and it is obviously true in Western Europe that they work elsewhere and elsewhere. What we can offer young Hungarians, however, is a vision that it is worth working in Hungary now. On the one hand, because there are many more jobs in Hungary, there are more than 700 thousand new jobs [[Dóra Dúró: It's not true!]] and it does not threaten young people so much, or even to a lesser extent, with unemployment. Instead of 11,6 percent, unemployment is now only 4.5 percent in Hungary. [[István Szávay: Because 600,000 people have gone, that's why!]] The taxes are much lower. Those who have children do not have to pay taxes or contributions for average income and three children. It is possible to set up a company, since the tax burden on the company is no longer high, but the corporate tax is much lower. It's a one-figure corporate tax, it's worth it to sign up at home. The administration at home has become much simpler, and the economy has started, there is demand. You hear it, you hear it, there's a shortage of workers in Hungary. If there is a shortage of labour in a country, it is suitable for calling young people here, calling them back with their experiences in Western Europe. I'll pick up the rest of it from here in a minute. Thank you.
u2017-10-16-178	Thank you very much. The rejoinder shall be granted to the congresswoman.
u2017-10-16-179	Dear Secretary of State, There's a shortage of workers because people are gone. Six hundred thousand have left the country. Do you understand, Mr. Secretary? Six hundred thousand are gone. They will not be included in unemployment statistics - of course, they are not here, they are not unemployed in Hungary, but they work in Western Europe! The people who are skilled, young, able to work well and do not increase Hungary, but find prosperity in Western Europe, just because they could not find it here. You have reduced the framework figures for higher education, the state-funded framework numbers, by 13 thousand since 2010, Mr State Secretary. This is also the consequence of the fact that this year, according to Eurostat, Hungary is last in terms of social mobility. Last one! We are the most difficult to break out of poverty in all EU Member States. Is this a vision for young people that is attractive to you? You're not attractive at all, Mr. Secretary. They've launched the, come home, young man! It's a program, and it's been such a failure that they've stopped. This is your certificate. They don't deal with this issue, they can't solve it. And the long-term solution is the Wages Union. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Dr. Vas Imre: It won't solve anything!]]
u2017-10-16-180	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State in return.
u2017-10-16-181	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Name a Central European country where it is not typical for young people or middle-aged people to be visiting Western Europe. [[István Szávay: Czech Republic! Dr. Gábor Staudt: Slovenia!]] Because you're making it look like it's this government's fault, and it's not that it's a typical trend in every country from the Baltic to the Balkans. Name a country that doesn't look like it. There are many countries where this has taken a much larger scale. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In recent years, we have managed to achieve that 800,000 people in Hungary have actually managed to break out of poverty because they have a job and can finally move forward. In Hungary, people have a vision today, and you tell us to leave our vision to Brussels. [[Dóra Dúró: It's not true!]] , and they will raise the wages of Hungarians from Brussels. Don't take the Hungarian people for granted. They will not believe that all of a sudden, in Brussels, those who have attacked the reduction of the rent from Brussels, who have attacked the bank tax from Brussels, have attacked the special donors of the crisis from Brussels. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] All of a sudden, they want to raise the wages of the Hungarian people. This can only be done from Budapest, any such initiative only weakens Hungary's ability to offer truly competitive wages to Hungarian young people. Thank you.
u2017-10-16-182	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Földi, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of National Development an immediate question: It's an address. I ask Mr. Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State, Mr. András Aradszki, who has been asked to reply.
u2017-10-16-183	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2017-10-16-184	Thank you. It is for Congressman László Földi to take the floor.
u2017-10-16-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, As stated in the title, I would like to talk about the 400-kilot power lines to be built between Albertirsa-Kecskemét, which the government declared a priority project for the national economy. The need for investment is not disputed. We are well aware that not only the population in the region needs electricity, but also companies that work for many people, which make a significant contribution to the performance of the national economy. The continuous, reliable power supply is therefore in the common interest of all of us. Therefore, as a Member of the Parliament of the region, I am very much in favour of the construction of the wire. The project is owned by Mavir Zrt. The procedure for the environmental and so-called wireless licensing of the power lines has not yet started. This is important because several local residents protest against the planned trail. It is believed that the cable could be built elsewhere, in an uninhabited area and cheaper than planned. I am aware that the trail on the outskirts of Nagykőrös has already changed over a 100-metre stretch in order to avoid a Natura 2000 forest. It also shows that we are dealing with a complex, difficult problem here, because it is possible that the wire - which is, once again, essential - must in any way violate an interest and value. Dear Secretary of State, I therefore ask whether the voters concerned can expect more proactive and more detailed information on the investment, especially on its trail and possible health risks. What are the criteria for choosing the line of the wire? Has there been a final decision on the trail, or is there still a way to change it? Is there a meaningful difference between the cost of each track? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17.10]]
u2017-10-16-186	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Aradszki.
u2017-10-16-187	Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government considers it essential both to protect human health and to protect nature, but also to ensure that energy supplies are secure. In this case, the proposed line is between two endpoints, Kecskemét and Albertirsa, and the route of the line is designed with regard to the minimum public and environmental loads. Natura 2000 areas are also affected, and their passage has been in advance coordinated with the regionally competent national park directorates and forestry authorities. At the beginning of August 2017, each municipality concerned was informed of the geodetic surveys, together with the request to inform the inhabitants of the municipality in the usual manner. In the meantime, geodetic surveys have been completed, based on which detailed trail plans have been completed, which show which real estates and to what extent will be affected by the wire in question can be identified. On this basis, it is possible to obtain the data contained in the real estate register, to directly inform and seek out real estate owners. This work is ongoing, as appropriate, during the evaluation of the data. Compliance with the limit values for electric and magnetic fields is set out in Mavir Zrt. its responsibility and, of course, it will ensure this. Health risks in the vicinity of high voltages have not been identified in the nearly 70-year history of system management. So he's no threat to the living world. These facilities are designed with very high safety distances, not rarely with the construction of nearly 40 meters of cable, so these problems that have been raised by the population will be solved. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-16-188	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The rejoinder is also due to the representative of Earth.
u2017-10-16-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer. It's comforting to me what you said. I think it is important to emphasise that the group of protestors against the planned trail of the wire is engaged in unpolitical activities. I was negotiating with them, and I was personally convinced of that. I trust that those living in the vicinity of the wire will be given more detailed information on the investment, the need for which no one will question. I would like to stress, therefore, that this is not political, it is primarily a professional issue; professionals must answer the questions that the residents have asked. I think it is important to make it clear by presenting the advantages and disadvantages of each track, that the optimal trail must be found, the perfect one cannot be found. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-16-190	The rejoinder also deserves the Secretary of State.
u2017-10-16-191	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, It is indeed our goal and our intention to ensure the security of energy supply while guaranteeing health and conservation values, and we will continue to do so in the future. As I said, the exact property records are not yet available, but we will find the relevant owners in time, and of course our aim is to keep the peace of the people who live there as little as possible. In addition, it will, of course, be possible to make minimum amendments if necessary. Of course, the contractor will be in constant consultation with the owners and the specific opinion-makers of the people who live there. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-16-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "Who is right? It's an address. Minister Nándor Csepreghy has appointed Secretary of State to answer. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2017-10-16-193	I'll take it.
u2017-10-16-194	Thank you very much. Congressman Ákos Hadházy has the floor.
u2017-10-16-195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I accept the person of the responder, although I am disappointed, because I wanted to ask Minister Lazarus first of all how he had the debate between him and Secretary of State Rétvári and the EMMI on the purchase of respirators. I mean, when I called attention to the fact that the state would like to buy these devices at double the price, your boss said that it would mean cutting something off, that it's not right. I think you're quite right to say that this is not right. On the other hand, the representatives of the EMMI and their State Secretarys said that everything is fine here. I can't ask. I wanted to ask you what it was like to live through this, to stay behind in this debate. In the absence of a better one, I will ask another question about this. Last time I asked your other boss, the Prime Minister, on this subject. He didn't answer that either. Obviously, you're not going to answer that question either, who was right, but you were very upset at the time. He didn't think of anything else, said he wanted an investigation, because I'm some foreign agent and I'm lobbying. [[Dr. Vas Imre: Right now!]] My question is, do you know what kind of examination you mean? So what's the test, what's the test? For example, I would very much like to propose a parliamentary committee of inquiry, but I would like to thank you if you could tell me what kind of investigation you have, because it is absolutely amazing that the state is doing everything in its power to take money from hospitals by trying to obtain instruments and ventilators for double money. My second question concerns a next case, when public procurement for lab equipment has been issued in such a way that each of the six large groups of machinery has to be offered at the same time, no sub-offers can be made. It's like buying means of transport and buying electric locomotives and jet planes and cars at the same time. That's what I'd like to ask you, if you don't think it's okay.
u2017-10-16-196	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy.
u2017-10-16-197	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Congressman! Thank you very much for asking. Although, in this respect, I think that the Prime Minister and Minister are also in control of his statement to you, since there has never been an example of an active representative of the Hungarian Parliament here in Parliament taking a position in the case of ongoing public procurement in favour of any offerer company. We believe that Members were sent to represent the public interest in Parliament, not to represent economic affairs, to represent the private economic interests of a company. I think that in many respects LMP has come to a fork in the road and has chosen a path that belongs to Ron Werber's Larifarian category, where it pursues a policy without clear knowledge of the facts and objectives and without ignoring it, which is nothing but the desire for power. We saw such plans, among other things, when your representative, Tamás Meszerics, represented the Soros Plan in the European Parliament. I propose to the Member that he wait for the end of an ongoing procedure. If these charges, which you or you have made, are justified, then of course this must be investigated. We're not talking about a completely open procedure for a reason. Once this open procedure is over, these can be formulated. The fact that you are here in Parliament talking about an ongoing procedure in favor of a pro or versus any of the other parties raises a type of conflict of interest which contradicts the oath of your representatives. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-16-198	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Ákos Hadházy has the opportunity to rejoin us.
u2017-10-16-199	Even the Prime Minister was more creative than that, so that we could get to Soros on this issue, frankly, I did not see that coming. Of course, I am lobbying for one thing, and this is in the interest of dying Hungarian health care. You pay lawyers a lot of money to change the state's decision, change the decision of the Public Procurement Committee. Now there's only the court, because it's not an ongoing case, it's closed. The Public Procurement Arbitration Committee has closed this case definitively. You can still appeal in court, but I don't think you can think that I can change the administration of the court. It's amazing that you're hiring an expensive lawyer to buy a double-price respirator. Thank you. [[17.20]]
u2017-10-16-200	Thank you very much. The rejoinder also deserves Secretary of State Csepreghy.
u2017-10-16-201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian state must always have the best interest of providing the best quality service to the Hungarian people at the best value for money. This is also confirmed by the types of procurement that have equipped the rural healthcare staff with the most modern machines in the last seven years, and this is also demonstrated by the commitment that this government is building a super hospital here in Budapest. With regard to every case, I think that where there is something to look at, it must be investigated, but I would warn all Members of Parliament not to appear here in Parliament in fear of their own political careers as lobby companies. You were sent here to represent the public interest, not to represent private interests. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-10-16-202	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gábor Bányai, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Development an immediate question:. What are the opportunities offered by the largest accommodation development programme of all time, the Kisfaludy Accommodation Development Construction? It's an address. The Minister asked Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, to reply. I'll ask Congressman if he'll take it with his head. [[On the sign of Gábor Bányai:]] You'll take it, thank you very much. Congressman Gábor Bányai has the floor.
u2017-10-16-203	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, After the 2010 change of government, the civil government, together with the Hungarian people, managed to get the country back on its feet and set it on the path of lasting and predictable growth. Statistics, analyses and the opinions of international credit rating agencies clearly confirm that Hungary has made significant progress over the last seven years. The same positive results will be achieved and domestic tourism will also succeed. The continuous increase in the traffic of domestic accommodations, the two-digit increase in the number of passengers at Liszt Ferenc International Airport for years, all show that in recent years there has been an explosive interest and growth in Hungarian tourist destinations. Dear Secretary of State, However, it is not enough that our country is a beautiful, safe and - you can say - attractive country with a value-for-money value, and it is important that Hungarian people and foreign tourists arriving here spend their vacation in quality accommodations and return home with a memory of first-class gastronomic, cultural or even recreational programs. If this is achieved, it is guaranteed that long-term and steady growth will also be expected in the tourism sector. Here, however, we must draw attention to the programme announced by the government in the summer, the Kisfaludy accommodation development scheme, which, according to some opinions, will be the largest tourist and accommodation development programme of all time. I consider it particularly important, and it is not worth setting a smaller goal than to compete with the large and popular tourist havens in Europe, as Hungary's millennial history, gastronomy, culture, medicinal waters and natural treasures are famous and recognized far away on earth. Thus, our offer is absolutely competitive in addition to other competitors. In view of the above, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State what opportunities the Kisfaludy construction of accommodation offers to Hungarian tourism operators and what it can offer to the South Great Plain and Bács-Kiskun County. Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-10-16-204	Thank you, Congressman Gábor Bányai. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2017-10-16-205	[[No sound.]] Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, until 2010, under socialist governments, tourism operated along a fragmented, sometimes opaque structure inherited at the time of the change of regime, without concepts... [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2017-10-16-206	Please put the card in, or it was the other way around. That's good, thank you.
u2017-10-16-207	Excuse me.
u2017-10-16-208	Let's hear it.
u2017-10-16-209	As a result of the professional work of recent years, Kisfaludy's tourism development programme is indeed a government umbrella programme that brings together the most important tourism developments in recent years. As a flagship project, the Kisfaludy construction will be launched. Within the framework of this construction, some HUF 300 billion will be invested by 2030. This will be financed by the Government from domestic budgetary resources in the form of grants. The invitation to tender for pensions has already been announced by the Hungarian Tourism Agency throughout the country with a deadline of 45 days. For hotel development, renovation and expansion in the regions of Tokaj, Felső-Tisza and Nyírség, the applications will be open until 20 November. In this scheme, applications for other regions are continuously published, scheduled, and so also for the region you represent. The maximum rate of the non-refundable grant financed from the domestic budget available through the tender is 70 percent, and thanks to the cooperation of the Hungarian Development Bank, the Tourism Agency can also use loans with a preferential interest rate to provide some of its own strength. By the way, it is estimated that as a result of these developments we expect an increase in turnover of around 20% over these decades. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-10-16-210	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Gábor Bányai has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2017-10-16-211	Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State. I'd like to add two more questions. It was said today at the conference, outside the Expo, that the Hungarian farmland also has the opportunity to renovate and renovate a lot of the existing undestructed farmhouses in this construction. This also means that it is an opportunity to distribute, that this scheme will be given not only to priority regions but also to other regions. With such an aid intensity and credit opportunity, this good construction is a fact and it is true that the 20 percent increase will be shown to entrepreneurs both in traffic and in net results, and in Hungary the possibility of creating new destinations is, to say, offered as an opportunity for the Hungarian farmland, in the middle and at the end of Bács-Kiskun. Thank you very much for your reply in advance. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-10-16-212	Thank you, Congressman Gábor Bányai. Mr. Secretary Major has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2017-10-16-213	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, The answer is definitely yes. Due to the different deadlines listed above and, of course, pensions and hotels outside the capital are also open to these opportunities. The only thing that matters here is that these developments are sustainable in the long term and justified from a tourist point of view. By increasing the service level provided by the development, increasing the current capacity of commercial accommodations, increasing the number of guest nights, it is also expected to increase the spending of guests and equalise seasonal fluctuations. In addition, of course, we expect a settlement from this programme not only in the area of tourism but also in the area of regional inequality. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-10-16-214	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, This concludes the hour of immediate questions and answers. We will continue our work with our next agenda: a series of requests for proposals to be discussed. Independent Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi and other support representatives have proposed that the Parliament decide on the opening of the accession process to the euro area H/17344. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on European Affairs. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mrs Zsuzsanna Szelényi, as an independent Member, within a five-minute time frame.
u2017-10-16-215	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, My proposal, which lies before you, is for the Hungarian Parliament to ask the government to start the accession process to the euro. I am presenting this to the House for a reason, because Hungary joined the European Union in 2004, and in our Treaty of Accession we have agreed to make the European Union's currency, the euro, our currency, Hungary's currency. Unfortunately, it didn't happen in the first year or two. And in 2008 the crisis obviously hindered the process of enabling Hungary to join the euro, as Hungary was in a serious economic crisis in the context of the global crisis. However, joining the euro today is in the same national interest as it was 13 years ago. [[17 .30]] The conditions for joining the euro are the same ones that make Hungary a developing, economically prosperous country, the economic pledge of Hungary's rise is the same as that of its accession to the euro. It is therefore time to talk about this today, especially because the euro has stabilised since the crisis, we are talking about a successful currency, its users love it, and in recent years the European Central Bank has implemented a number of sensible proposals that make the euro simpler and more practical for its users. Europe is after crises, and a lot has happened in recent years. It's just the moment when we can move forward. Over the last few months, Europe's leaders, Emmanuel Macron, Jean-Claude Juncker or Commissioner Moscovici, have prepared plans that all suggest that the European Union's move forward will basically be organised around the euro area in the coming year and year and a half. Therefore, Hungary cannot avoid that, when very clear and positive conditions arise for joining the euro, we should finally take this step, which is also important to us. So the question is whether we will adopt the euro or whether the government will lead Hungary out of the central circle where the most intensive thinking and action on the future of Europe will take place in the coming months. The aim of the proposal is to make Hungary a member of the euro zone prepared. As I said, these are no different from the economic conditions already required in Hungary, so we can prepare for the euro in parallel, and we can also increase the productivity and competitiveness of the Hungarian economy. In fact, it is purely a political intention that the Hungarian Government will now take these necessary steps or not. Are we introducing or leading Hungary out of the zone? - that's the question. What are these conditions? We have to keep inflation low in the long term, we cannot spend more money than we have, we provide as long as our blankets are worth, and productivity and wages paid in the country have to be in harmony, and these are also economic goals in Hungary's interest. The members of the government have spoken highly controversially over the last few months, and some say that we can now enter, some who are 20 years old, some who place the entry threshold for 30 years. The government's statement is confusing. I think that it is the responsibility of the Hungarian Parliament to talk about this issue, in particular that Hungarians have the right to know what the government wants, what it can do and what it can do in order to join the euro in Hungary. Therefore, my proposal aims to ask the government to give an account of where the preparation processes are and to request the participation of the Hungarian government in the deliberations of the leaders of the euro area, at which moment Hungary is not taking part, so we cannot shape the future of the eurozone. And where we're not there, we can't interfere. I hope that my proposal will be supported. This proposal is formulated in such a way as to keep Fidesz's goals ahead, so there is no reason in fact for the government representative or the government parties not to vote. I urge you to support my proposal to take the necessary steps to adopt the euro. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-10-16-216	Thank you, Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. I will ask if anyone wishes to speak on behalf of the factions or of the independent Members. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2017-10-16-217	Mr President, Dear House, I hope, however, that there will be a desire to speak on this very important issue in my fellow Members. I see that the introduction of the euro in the coming years would cause much more damage to Hungary than its benefits. I see that in extreme liberal economics circles we are talking about a very fashionable and trendy subject, but I have to see that various instruments for monetary policy intervention would be lost immediately if this process were to be completed, and we also need to see that various types of open market operations will be immediately removed from the current Hungarian government toolbox if this process happens without control and indeed according to previous plans and trends. The fundamental error - yes, we agree on that - was that in the Treaty of Accession and in the following period, the governments of Hungary at the time showed an excessive commitment, one of which was the culmination of the Lisbon Treaty, in fact the joint vote by Fidesz and the MSZP without knowing the official translation. At the same time, we need to see that the introduction of the euro would be one of the main symptoms of joining the euro area, but in my view, at the moment in Hungary, this would very much reduce the scope of a future government on an up-and-coming path. So our policy position is clearly that we are talking about bringing in a trendy, trendy system of views. We, in principle and in this form, cannot and do not want to support this, but it is such an important issue, and it is such a meaty discussion of these circumstances that we find this to be indisputable and worthy of debate. That is what we call on the representatives of the governing parties. It may be possible to establish a negative position, as I am doing at the moment, obviously leaving later gates open, but the Hungarian Parliament should argue and argue on similar issues. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-16-218	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Burány, MSZP.
u2017-10-16-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The MSZP faction supports the inclusion of a series of subjects, and we support not only the inclusion of a series of subjects, but also the adoption of the euro as soon as possible. We are well aware that there are a number of economic and legal preconditions for the introduction of the euro in Hungary. An accession process takes years, but any procrastination is dangerous to the country, that is our firm position. A two-speed Europe emerges before our eyes, which would be a particularly negative and tragic process for Hungary in our current state, because, due to the policy of the Government of Hungary, it seems that we will not be included in this first speed, and we will not be among the Member States, and those who are in need of the second gear in a two-speed Europe will sooner or later increase their break-off, while the country's interest would be to approach the developed Western countries as much as possible. Any procrastination that causes or hinders the introduction of the euro will help Hungary to become one of the detractors in this two-speed Europe. The government has said on several occasions about the euro, and the biggest problem is that it is obvious that the government is not in its right mind to adopt the euro in Hungary. Obviously, the primary reason for this is that it is possible to trick with the HUF exchange rate, as we know very well that the government of Viktor Orbán has weakened the forint significantly after 2010. The main beneficiary of this was, moreover, the central bank led by György Matolcsy, which, at the expense of the foreign exchange lenders, made a huge profit in order to waste it on all sorts of unnecessary things. To sum up, therefore, we consider the introduction of the euro to be important as soon as possible, at the first possible time, and we support inclusion in the series of subjects. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-10-16-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity, LMP.
u2017-10-16-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The LMP supports the inclusion of the series of articles in this bill, but I would also like to add immediately that the introduction of the euro in our country is currently not up to date. We support this proposal because it is necessary to start negotiations on this issue, but in this situation it would put the Hungarian families in an even more difficult position. The biggest problem is domestic wages. While salaries are significantly lower than those of Western societies, living and food prices are hardly different than those of Austria or Germany. [[17.40]] Unfortunately, this is the Hungarian government's fault, as they are deliberately keeping wages low, as they serve the interests of multinational companies. A real wage increase would be necessary, because if we introduced the euro in the current situation, it would greatly increase prices, which would lead to an even worse situation for the Hungarian people. In the first instance, Hungary should join the ERM 2 system, and the Hungarian government would need to prepare this step, as this is already possible under the current circumstances. However, it should be pointed out that the current government has failed to implement its sovereign debt reduction plan. While in 2009 the government debt was 78.4 percent with IMF credit in the middle of the crisis, 76.4 percent on 31 December 2016. This is also due to the fact that Eximbank is a captive financial institution that had to be classified within the general government. This is very important because our country's government debt has increased by 2 percent, and we are even further away from the 60% Maastricht threshold. In conclusion, LMP's position: accession to the euro zone is not current, the Hungarian economy is not on its own feet, it is exposed to external factors. We believe that, however, we are in favour of a series of requests for inclusion, which must be discussed. Thank you.
u2017-10-16-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy, Fidesz.
u2017-10-16-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As recognised indirectly by the parliamentary proposal of the woman representing Hungary, Hungary now meets most of the Maastricht criteria thanks to the economic policy defined by the post-2010 Fidesz governments. There is no debate between us either that our country has actually made a commitment to join the euro zone when it joins the European Union. If you look at the figures, there is no political community that would have done as much for Hungary's accession to the euro area as the current governing parties. The left-wing opposition is very fond of stressing its pro-Europeanism and demanding accession to the euro. The reality is that when Hungary was governed by the left between 2002 and 2010, there was no year in which we managed to keep the government deficit below 3 per cent, but we managed to raise the debt-to-GDP ratio from 52 per cent to 80 per cent. Dear Parliament, We need to learn from other people's mistakes. Several countries in southern Europe have introduced the euro without actually preparing their economies. Greece is a good example of this, but Italy is also struggling with too strong a currency. However, we do not need to go this far, because it is also a known fact that Slovakia, as a member of the euro area, had to bear significant burdens in order to maintain Greek pensions and salaries higher than our neighbour in the north, despite the decade of bad Greek economic policy. Ladies and gentlemen, For these reasons, the Fidesz government does not support the inclusion of a series of objects, as this is premature for us. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-16-224	Thank you, Congressman Hadházy. I will ask the author if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi.
u2017-10-16-225	Dear fellow Members, Thank you all for your comments, especially those that supported the inclusion in the series. I think there is every reason to talk about this issue. In fact, I appreciated the commentary by Mr Hadházy Fidesz. I didn't see any argument in your speech about why we shouldn't put it on the agenda, why we shouldn't continue this conversation a little wider than we just started. You made a few arguments. I think, and I know, that the euro can be introduced well and that it can be introduced badly. It is possible to give examples of 20 years ago with stories that went wrong, but for us it is a more decisive example of Slovakia and Estonia, which have very successfully adopted the euro in recent years. This has stabilized their economy when they had to experience difficulties due to external effects, and the economic development of these countries is significantly higher than that of Hungary today, although they started from a much worse situation even ten to fifteen years ago. So I think it is only a matter of political will what we will do with the euro. I'm afraid Fidesz's hesitation is more influenced by the fact that Fidesz is pursuing a lucrative policy. The President of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank wants to do whatever he wants with the bank's revenues, so they are in fact abusing the power situation that is, in contrast to considering Hungary's long-term development interests. I still hope that the Fidesz faction will support this proposal. As many have said, this is a debate. I think it is time for this to be done regularly and continuously in the Hungarian Parliament. In case my proposal gets rejected tomorrow, I'm gonna put it on the table again and again. I think that this is our task for the future of Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-16-226	Thank you, Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi. The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the 2013 LIV on the implementation of the regulatory cuts in order to ensure a fair reduction in the energy prices kept unduly by the government. T/17352. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, rapporteur, in a five-minute time frame.
u2017-10-16-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It is not the first time that this comes before Parliament either, because very often, when we have seen world market trends as the price of oil per barrel changes, we have assumed that the price of natural gas will also move to it, as is usually the case, that the world market price for natural gas will follow with a delay of about six months. We have repeatedly said that what we have seen once in a while is that the price of a barrel of oil has gone down to 60, 55, sometimes 50 dollars, is not a once-in-a-lifetime event that should not be followed by the Hungarian administration. It's a trend. This has been the case for more than a year and a half now, we are talking about a trend that is going to be over two years old, because you have already planned a budget that is going to have the energy prices fired around the world market price of oil going to be between 47 and 52 dollars and moving there. Even the excise duty was adapted to this, when they said that when it comes up, the tax will be reduced, not in the world, but in the world. The fact is that since then we have seen exactly on this issue, because you have also given a directive to state companies that the margin, the price difference that has always been famous for scandals - because here it has been, you know, when MET and companies that were still trading with cheaper gas and then before they brought it to Hungary have turned it a few more times - this price difference should appear in natural gas companies, and this should be put into passive income. You know, that's what they buy for, and for which you give it to the public, between these two there's a significant sum, that's 51 billion forints. And this passive prepayment means that, in fact, the bank account has this money. He's passive because he doesn't have any obligation. That's what it's called, this money's there, that's the money that's been deposited at this company because you, the government, bought the gas so much cheaper than you gave it to the Hungarians for. It accumulated HUF 51 billion. What has been a hunch so far, we can now see it precisely and numerically from last year's farming scale: you give energy more expensively to Hungarian residents, so the Hungarian residents pay much more than they should pay. [[17.50]] We have made this fairer reduction proposal several times, but now we can give a very precise number on this issue. We can say - which, we believe, is due to all Hungarians - that, following global trends, you should not increase or give energy more expensively, especially under the banner of the reduction of rent, but, in fact, following world market trends, instead of parking this HUF 51 billion in this company's bank account, you should give it to those who really deserve it, and to the Hungarians. This would mean that if they did this fairly, that to an average level of consumption, i.e. not heating a sauna, swimming pool and swimming pool, but to a fair level, to an average level of consumption, which is approximately 1200 to 1,500 cubic metres per year, the price of gas, the price of energy could be reduced by 32 percent. In fact, if you reduce the price of gas by 32 percent, winter comes, the heating season begins tomorrow, and if you can reduce it, and you know it, because the money is available, the gas supplier is in your gas supplier's bank account, so if you can reduce the price of gas, you can give it to the Hungarians, then the price of gas could be reduced by 32 percent to an average level of consumption. We believe that this is fair, following global trends. I must be honest with you that I did not understand the debate on the Economic Committee because there was no debate. You have no arguments for these numbers. There are accepted scales, accessible to everyone in the court, available to us, we looked at them there, then looked at the instructions, they are also available, we know what they were made of. So I ask you to support this decision, not to act as in the Economic Committee, where you simply voted 'no' and did not say a word. Thank you for your attention, Mr President.
u2017-10-16-228	Thank you very much, Congressman Cook. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. I will ask if anyone wishes to speak on behalf of the factions or of the independent Members. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik.
u2017-10-16-229	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen. We have seen a huge hoax and hoax here in Hungary for years. Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, in his response to his speech before the agenda, proudly mentioned as a government result that only 1.8 million people are now affected by foreign exchange lending in Hungary, and he also said in this speech that only 800,000 people are now having problems heating up their homes in winter. And then we could ask ourselves, please, whether this is a reduction in the rent or there will be more progress on the part of the government, because it is absolutely amazing that you are trying to sell it as a government result. What's going on is that everyone steals from what they know. While during the socialist governments it was necessary to raise a price - as this was justified by world market developments - to achieve the right profit, this can now be done under the cover of a reduction in the rent, i.e. by defrauding Hungarian society. In addition to the fact that Hungarian society's overhead costs and expenses have not decreased by anything, and the government has even pulled down the Hungarian people, they are pocketing huge amounts of money by making world market prices much lower than the amount of gas or other energy services that Hungarian people can use. It is therefore justified that some kind of reduction should take place and that some kind of fairer reduction of the rent, which has already been said here, should be implemented. I believe that it is indeed necessary to put proposals on the agenda of the Parliament which deal with this in any way. Of course, there are different views between the individual factions and the individual parties in the solution itself, but it is important to remedy that in recent years Hungarian people and the wallet of Hungarian households have been damaged by billions and tens of billions, which has also led to an increase in poverty in Hungary, and the problems have increased further. Thank you very much, Jobbik supports the subject series. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-16-230	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Kepli. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2017-10-16-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP faction initiated the agenda proposal before us. I'd be very simple, short and hard to say that we're trying to get the government to lower the price of gas, but we'd have to open this up a little bit. Mr Cook has already mentioned that the price of natural gas on the world market would allow the Hungarian population to be given much cheaper natural gas, but Fidesz, and let us say that the Fidesz economic moonyard - if we put it very nicely - is precisely István Garancsi and the MET company owned by him, the company is essentially skimming off this profit and giving expensively the natural gas that could otherwise be given cheaply. Now, this would be the real reduction in the rent, if, at least following world market prices, the Hungarian people were to be given gas at a much cheaper rate, this could really help people and reduce their living and overhead costs. What we shouldn't be doing is sending billions to the economic backgrounds of Fidesz. Our proposal is, in effect, that world market prices could be given cheaper, following trends. We would like to ask Parliament's support in this, because we think that this might prevent or eliminate the labelling of this certain, as I have said, fidesz economic background. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-10-16-232	Thank you, Congressman Zsolt Bachelor. I give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity, it may be Other Politics.
u2017-10-16-233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The Fidesz government has trapped the Hungarian energy sector, neither the formation of prices nor the use of revenues are adapted to common sense. [[Dr. Vas Imre:]] We also believe that you have lost your mind, my honourable fellow Member, as you just said. The rule of politics is also demonstrated by the fact that energy prices do not decrease when the external market price falls, but when the political interests of the Orbán Cabinet so require. The LMP thinks differently. We do not believe in long-term magical practices that are detrimental to the environment, the economy and society, with energy bills, and we reject administrative price regulation that does not provide any assistance to the poorest. The Fidesz energy policy has not proved to be operational in practice, since it has been providing extra profit to public energy wholesalers for years, does not share the positive effects of the fall in market prices with the population, and puts those to a hopeless position, to whom even fixed-line energy sources do not reach. While we are talking about various ways of cutting bills, the price of firewood has been rising for years. We agree, of course, with the initiative that, while energy prices are falling on the market, the benefits of which cannot be skimmed by the state alone. However, we are not convinced that the price advantage should be passed on to consumers mechanically, regardless of the income situation. The forward-looking state behaves differently when the price is lower, it provides a basis for revenue, which can support those in need in the event of higher market prices, and can help investments to increase energy efficiency and reduce consumption, so that families are not vulnerable to either politics or the convenience of the market. The LMP supports this proposal, but we do not want to assist in the possible need to distribute a drastic market price increase to energy consumers tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-10-16-234	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask the rapporteur, as many have not indicated their intention to respond. [[Dr. László Kács: Yes.]] You have the floor, Congressman Cook.
u2017-10-16-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you for the support of the support groups. And in the Fidesz fraction, we were not disappointed again, they did not say a word, nor did they say a word at the Economic Commission meeting, they sat and then voted for it because it was in the interest of their oligarchs. This costs the Hungarian people 51 billion forints. It's just a button push for you, but the Hungarian people will pay so much more. I hope that they will change their minds by tomorrow, and that we can discuss this in substance, and that they may serve only the Hungarians and not just the oligarchs. [[18.00]] Look, earlier, the oil price of $50 a barrel was associated with a gas price of HUF 50 per cubic metre in Hungary. Now it's $47 a barrel of oil and £103 a cubic meter of gas. This is what you have to account for, not for the Hungarians, not for the one company and one or two oligarchs that you will now serve with these votes. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew applauds.]]
u2017-10-16-236	Thank you, Congressman Cook. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Now, Honourable Parliament, the motion of the Jobbik Group. It was called for the Parliament to decide on the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, T/17262. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. First, I will give the floor to the rapporteur in a five-minute time frame, namely, to Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik.
u2017-10-16-237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, It is still a very important proposal that Jobbik was forced to bring here, before the plenary session, because the Justice Committee rejected the proposal despite the fact that it may appear that the Fidesz-KDNP should support it in theory; on the one hand, in order to protect the country, on the other hand, the corruption charges raised, the accusations of abuse that surrounded the settlement policy, and the whole construction still reeks of corruption and abuse. Well, if these are to be removed, at least for the future they would like to exclude or reduce, then they should also support this for political reasons. Jobbik has already submitted this proposal several times. You may recall that in November last year, when the vote was on the amendment of the basic law, one half of it was agreed. We have managed to bring the fundamental law amendment to an acceptable level for poor migrants, and we have managed to establish an acceptable version in the Parliament, in the five-partisan discussion that would be a truly more effective basic legal protection for mass arriving poor migrants. However, it has not been possible to establish that in relation to more than 20,000 residents who are now coming here with settlement bonds, this should be excluded from buying such a right for consideration in the future. Now let's not go into how, because this construction can be conducted more correctly and corruptly. We have managed to introduce the more corrupt version, and in such an ignominious way in Europe and in the world, they can't really find a settlement bond arrangement. But the point is that now voters are being fed that this has been abolished, while no new bonds have been sold. But after the election, nothing will stop the government from doing so, not even a parliamentary decision is required to return this construction. Moreover, the decision of the European Court of Justice has put our country in a very difficult position, given that quota decisions have been declared legitimate and that these decisions have been declared in parallel with the EU Treaties and in line with the EU Treaties. So this proposal, which is now ahead of us, this amendment to the basic law, in order to protect the country, perhaps should never have been supported as much as it is now. By the way, Csaba Dömötör told me today that the government had decided to release the settlement bonds. Well, I've never heard of this, but if the government has actually decided on this, then it is safe to vote on this proposal, because this proposal differs only in the one sentence that it cannot be introduced and traced back in the future. And by two thirds of the Constitution, the right of establishment, residence will be protected by the fact that no one, the Fidesz governments, or any government that cannot change this Fundamental Law, this pass to be introduced, cannot do so. We know that you have declared a fight against poor migrants, so the Juncker quotas have been quite rightly rejected, but we would like you to do the same with the Rogan quotas, not allow rich migrants into the country, and not put the country in such a difficult situation or such an awkward situation that if, say, Juncker had bought these 1300 people a settlement policy, they would have been allowed into this country without a sock. In addition, Juncker would have received four-fold interest on their invested money. Isn't that a good deal? I don't want to give them ideas, but you left this gate open, and if you don't support this proposal, you won't close it. So if you don't want to return the bond, because that's what we're actually talking about, whether the bond will come back after 2018 or not, to be more precise: whether you'll start selling again, then you can accept this proposal. If they do not do so, there can only be one reason, because I believe that they do not say no to the amendments that are otherwise to be supported, which you also call eligible in November last year, but to the return of the bonds in 2018. Trust me, it's not worth betraying the country at that price. Thank you very much. [[Lajos Kepli and Balázs Ander applaud.]]
u2017-10-16-238	Thank you very much, Congressman Gábor Staudt. Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position within a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. I will ask if anyone wishes to speak on behalf of the factions or of the independent Members. Yes, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik.
u2017-10-16-239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I've been waiting to see if there's gonna be any comments on the pro-government side. I hope, if nothing else, that my contribution will inspire my honourable pro-government fellow Members. First of all, let us say that Jobbik does not support any resettlement against the government's lies, either poor or rich migrants. We told you that a thousand times. Yet the last time, Secretary of State Károly Kontrat said that Jobbik is also a supporter of the implementation of the Soros plan. Well, it's obvious that there's no such thing, that Jobbik has ever supported, or ever said, any measures relating to resettlement. [[Dr. Imre Vas: Gábor Vona.]] In fact, we said that borders must be protected. The fence will remain, the border guards will be restored and we will act as rigorously as possible against illegal migration. Not in this regard, I think it is a debate. However, it has been clearly proven that the Fidesz government has an interest in maintaining illegal immigration as a problem, because it is a kind of last straw, if they have not been able to deliver results in the process of improving education and health, then something is needed, if nothing else, based on the fear of the population, to keep their popularity up. This huge problem is that when we bring an initiative like this here, whether it is honest on the part of the government or not, whether it wants to protect the country, whether it also prevents the resettlement of rich migrants who come for money and are good money for the oligarchs and certain members of the government, they are sneaking. Then they won't give an opinion, they won't support the inclusion. When it comes to combating immigration and beating up the opposition, Jobbik, at the level of combat and communication, by supporting any resettlement, they can be very warriors. Now let's see if you can be equally combatant on this issue and support the inclusion of the fundamental law amendment on the agenda. Thank you very much. [[Ander Balázs applauds.]]
u2017-10-16-240	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, Fidesz.
u2017-10-16-241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, we understand that Jobbik has remorse, because practically this fundamental law amendment was not voted on November 8, last year, which in its content was the same as this. What my fellow Member refers to is not prohibited by this amendment to the basic law. I understand that you want to join the implementation of the Soros plan, and you are now in it, and that is why you may have some remorse, but you are in favour of importing migrants. It's practically obvious from their politics. It is also apparent that if at least two of you Members had voted on this on 8 November, there would be nothing to talk about here. By the way, the lawyers say that this is a judgment, on the one hand, the Parliament voted on this on 8 November. I don't remember exactly how many times we voted on this in the Justice Committee, and it's in front of the Parliament again. [[18.10]] But you were supposed to vote for this on 8 November, at least for the two of you, and there wouldn't be such a problem. We see that they want to implement the Soros plan, which is why they feel guilty, and that's why they're putting this proposal on the table for the first time, but you voted against it, so you can see what they're on for. I'm sure your master will encourage you to do this, and I'm sure you can tie the party's support to this, I don't know, but it's probably something like this. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-10-16-242	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment on the factions. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask the author if he wishes to respond to what has been said. Yes, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt.
u2017-10-16-243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Imre Vas, I didn't expect much from you, but you managed to subdue yourself. What do you mean, "convicted"? This is possible in the system of courts. You call yourself a lawyer? ! And when you had to bring back the poster law in violation of the law, wasn't that a judgment? ! By the way, believe me, we're not the only ones who've noticed your awesome expertise, and I'm pretty sure with you in your 18th grade, no matter what results the Fidesz will achieve, I understand we won't be meeting here at the National Assembly. It appears within Fidesen that Imre Vas is no longer needed. But if you say so much nonsense and at least monitor government communication, then we should decide whether Soros or Simicska is our master now. Because that's what they say one day, the other day, while they're trying to distract attention from the fact that this proposal, as you said, differs in one thing from that which was voted out in November, so that in the future we would rule out any government selling for money, the right of establishment for remuneration, including the fact that Fidesz will bring it back after 2018 will activate the system of settlement bonds. That is what we decide, that is the difference compared to the November proposal. If this is voted down, that has been said before, you said, Imre Vas, that this is the difference, because otherwise the other stages are the same; you say yes to the system of remuneration, the settlement bonds, and refuse to protect the country in order to protect the dirty money. Now it's a perfectly clear black and white decision that if you still care about dirty money, then your souls are on it. In 2018, believe me, people will vote for change. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-16-244	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports for the submission of sanctions for administrative infringements and the discussion of the draft amending proposal are now in order. Government referral T/17313. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-10-16-245	Thank you for the floor. At its meeting on 12 October, the Legislative Committee discussed T/1731 on sanctions for administrative infringements. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were supported by 22 votes in favour, 4 against and without abstentions. The aim of the bill is to clarify the concepts of the administrative sanction system and to make the regulation more uniform and transparent. In order to establish a single system of penalties, the proposal lays down provisions on the application of warnings, administrative bail, administrative fines, prohibition from carrying out activities and confiscation. In order to achieve this even more effectively, the following amendments were introduced in the summarised amendment proposal. The warning shall contain conditions relating to the exclusion of the application of a sanction, i.e. the use of the warning may be excluded by law in cases where a minor breach could not have occurred. However, there may also be cases where progressive application is not justified and administrative fines are imposed in the event of the first infringement. Furthermore, it is clarified under which conditions the authority may provide for the application of administrative bail and penalties. Not least one year later, the date of entry into force will be changed to 1 January 19 in order to provide adequate preparation time for customers, both public authorities and professional management bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for my fellow Member's support for proposals with a view to the principle of gradualness and based on civic trust as a main principle. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-16-246	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. Yes, I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2017-10-16-247	[[Without sound:]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't want to say anything right now. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-16-248	Put your card in to be safe because you couldn't hear it. Please do it again. It's working, good. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I will ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. The rapporteur has the opportunity to speak.
u2017-10-16-249	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, In view of the absence of a debate, the debate took place in the committees. Mr Imre Vas has just presented the general principles of law, taking into account the Commission's amendments. I would like to draw the attention of honourable Members here, before the final vote, to the gradual introduction of a system of divided sanctions and trust, a system of civic trust. I think it's a positive law, even if it's about sanctions. It is a step forward, a more differentiated system, which is why I call on the fellow Members to support it. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-16-250	Thank you, Secretary of State Zoltán Kovács. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of home affairs and other related laws and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal are now under way. The government referral is T/17458. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-10-16-251	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that during the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 12 October, T/17458 on the amendment of domestic and other related laws was discussed. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were supported by 23 votes in favour, 5 votes against and no abstentions. [[18.20]] The Legislative Committee partially supported the Commission's proposal to close a detailed debate and adopted its own proposals for clarification. It is important to point out, in the context of the drafting of criticisms regarding chimney sweeping activities, that these checks will not be terminated at the request of the owners, i.e. family houses, but will be carried out at the request of the owner on the basis of an order from the owner. I stress, to mention an international example, that in Austria and Germany, the chimneys are currently checked once a year, which are carried out on the basis of an order. It's just we don't have to pay for it here. The studies carried out show that carbon monoxide related deaths are due to the extremely poor condition of combustion plants, which can be traced back to the fact that inspections were not fully carried out previously by the public services. It is important to note that a further 5% increase of law enforcement professionals will enter into force from 1 January 18. This means that if my fellow Members support the bill, the average salary will increase by another 5 percent. This means that we are at 45% of the average salary increase of 50% already promised, so we are fulfilling our promises. I also have to draw attention to the fact that the law also amends the provisions of the fundamental law on the local governments of Hungary, so it was necessary to incorporate the essentiality clause. Therefore, we count on the support of the Jobbik Group in terms of the two-thirds section, as agreed in advance. I ask that the proposal be supported by your vote. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-16-252	Thank you, Congressman Vas Imre. I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[Károly Kontra: Thank you, not now.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Bellozó, MSZP.
u2017-10-16-253	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, While we are talking about a law that amends certain domestic laws, in the general debate, we have found that there really is everything in this bill from the angle to the plane, least of all domestic laws, municipal law, from chimney sweeps to wage increases, much more. Practically as a legislator and then as a law enforcement officer, you can't even follow it. There is nothing better to show this than that the Defence and Police Committee has not dealt with this bill. Why is that? What would domestic law be doing with this committee? The Justice Committee had a debate on the bill. That says a lot about your attitude and taking it seriously, by the way. After all, I would like to address a point that I would like to draw the attention of my fellow members of the Government once again, which my fellow Member Vas Imre would have tried to get away with with, with this pre-allocated sentence, to reassure people that by changing the chimney sweeping legislation there is nothing to see, and there will be no problem. You will, fellow Member. I beg you to understand that these buttons in life are causing real changes. These changes in this case can cause human deaths. Not now, not tomorrow, but in a few months, in a few years. So when you are told - and we are here in Parliament - that there will be no difference between the fact that the state requires the control of the chimneys in a mandatory manner, and thus tries to prevent - out of carelessness, lack of money or negligence - the kind citizens themselves from being put in a position to cause such an accident, and even their families, and they claim that this will be replaced by the fact that everyone in the family houses will be able to make their own appointments, and that will be all right, then they will not tell you the truth either. And maybe if you live in some kind of house or even a family house, you know that's not how it works. This is not the way it works for families in a better way, because, indeed, carelessness or negligence can cause them not to deal with it for years; this is certainly not how it works for poor families, who will certainly not be the first to do so when, say, at the end of the month, they are anxious to be able to heat or buy firewood at all to order the supply of chimney sweeps or the provision of chimney checks separately. And it is not a question, my fellow Members, whether or not someone in the car will replace the window-washing fluid! It's not a question of whether anyone's in the mood or not. Please understand that people can die in this. Children, innocent, by the way, there's no connection to this case between elderly people and underage children. Be it now, I beg you, you have so much in mind that whatever the Ministry of Interior says to you, which, by the way, is clearly not recommended for any other reason, just because you were not prepared for nationalisation of the chimney sweep, you do not have the means, you do not have the personnel, you cannot catch up with yourself, and you cannot carry out the pre-planned chimney sweep checks. So, really, like a one-time dumbass, then the government isn't prepared to double the costs or take on more people, it's changing the rules. And with all this, when it comes to painting a tram, there's no problem. I'm just asking you once more to understand that this is about people's lives. These are guaranteed human lives, since the chimney control itself was invented and introduced to spare, to save, people whose problems may arise due to some deterioration of the chimney. And yes, the state itself has introduced official tools in this area so that they can be carried out even if someone does not want to spend money on this, or simply forget, because no one can take responsibility for it if it becomes a tragedy. Our amendment has been requested. I am sure that the other opposition parties have also tabled such an amendment. I think that there will be a number of options in the course of tomorrow to review their views on the proposals for which they are amending, and not to take their names as representatives a decision that can end in tragedy, and even to say to you that if this is the case for many years, then it is guaranteed that it can only be a tragedy. I would ask you to change your position at least at this small point, but at a very important point. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-16-254	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity, LMP.
u2017-10-16-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The salad law also contains a number of mines that we believe are not eligible for. One of these, on which my fellow faction has already spoken last week, and we have indicated in several places that this is indeed related to chimney sweeping. However, in my speech, given that this has been said, I would like to draw attention to an element that we have not yet heard in this House. This is the creation of a general water database, in which it can be called positive, as it also means settling the status of the public servant and labour law situation of those working in water bodies. The right of regulation granted by the Government to local authorities allows for loopholes from the general rules, exemption from official authorisation, obligation to notify ex post, all of which are also possible. Perhaps, however, the most important concession in relation to this salad law is that the government significantly increases the amount of water that can be used free of charge. So they're releasing the water supply contribution during an annual water use significantly increased compared to before. According to the reasons for the text, the official reason for the significant decrease in the volume of water resources contribution is to reduce the burden on agricultural water users and farmers. The government wants to support irrigation farming, fish farming, rice production and reduce drought damage in this way. [[18.30]] However, it is also stated in the Water Management Act that groundwater should only be used to the extent that water extraction and water supply balance is maintained without damage to quality. However, increasing the VKJ-free quotas is a government step equivalent to squandering water resources and irresponsible water management. There is no responsible water management in the country. They're stealing money, they're stealing the country's layer of water, while the irrigable soil is mostly in the hands of friends. There is no substantial change, no necessary investments are made in order to retain surface water. Instead of a radical water management reform, the retention of groundwater and the preservation of underground water, the government allows for free water robbery. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear tableds, We are convinced that what they want to achieve, either to reduce drought damage or to increase the efficiency of farming, is not the right way to do this. This is not an insult to the interests of farmers and farmers, but to the point that this is an irresponsible, short-term and unworthy regulation. We are convinced that much better regulations are in place in many places in the world, which should be taken into account, for example, in order to avoid the need for so much irrigation water. This has very obvious environmentally friendly and effective solutions, and this is all you need to be open to. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-10-16-256	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2017-10-16-257	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. The general debate has gone down, and I do not want to repeat what has been said in it, and I would ask you to do the same to other opposition Members, and we will also ask for our amendment, which, of course, you have not allowed through the Judicial Committee. Despite not taking into account the criticisms of the opposition, the opposition's arguments about why this is a very bad decision were not passed. You do not take into account almost any arguments. The fact that his opposition has not been taken into account is something that we have become accustomed to, but the fact that the opinion of Dr. Gyula Bándi, the advocate of future generations, the deputy of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, has not been taken into account, in my opinion, is absolutely outrageous. Professor Gyula Bándi has made a resolution public on the side of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, let me quote the last paragraph of this. In the light of the above, we ask the legislator not to put the public's health or the protection of the values of the environment at risk by abandoning continuous mandatory controls with its proposed steps to ease the administrative burden on the general public. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That's what the professor thinks. Professor took the time to come to the meeting of the Justice Committee when the Judicial Committee discussed whether or not to accept the amendments. There, too, he confirmed this opinion and asked the representatives of Fidesz, KDNP sitting there - because the opposition had not to be asked, because they supported the amendments - to accept these amendments and not to put Hungarian society at risk; you voted against them. But if you don't listen to him, at least listen to Zsolt Semjén, because Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén has just submitted a legislative amendment proposal on T/17571. No, which is nothing more than the fact that the system has worked so far when the gas pipelines are connected, that the control, which is now being introduced in the chimney check, had to be ordered to the public and described in the justification that this system did not work. The public did not order the controls, and they pose a huge threat to the public in connection with these gas leaks, so now, with this legislative amendment, they are eliminating this system by going out on an order to check it, but making it mandatory. Then he'll say the same thing, they're both just as dangerous. It doesn't matter if we're talking about a gas leak, and it's gonna kill us, or it's gonna cause chimney fires or carbon monoxide poisoning. Understand, I do not want to use harsh words, but if you accept this amendment at the moment, let us say that this is an attempt at murder against Hungarian society, the Hungarian people, and it will be on your conscience if people are to die here. And not just those who don't order chimney checks, because they're trying to put this responsibility on society here, but maybe there's a family house that orders chimney checks, the tenant next door doesn't order chimney checks, and when there's a fire, both houses burn down. You're playing with everyone's lives, and you're doing all this because you made a law that you made, and when you delegated the chimney sweeping service to disaster management, we said it wasn't gonna work. You have made this law, it has been proven in recent times that this is not good, and you are now trying to save the mundane's honour and push this responsibility on the population. Believe me that this is nonsense, and I am suggesting, although there are very few Members here, that perhaps in the vote tomorrow, when we ask for these amendments, there will be no party discipline that you will define for Members what and how they should vote, because if you are reasonable about your individual responsibility in this matter, you cannot vote for this law, because it is a very, very bad law in terms of life and property security. That is why I ask you, with such a reference that it is said that this must be changed because the obligation so far has been an administrative and temporal burden for the real estate user, this administrative and temporal burden - I see, Mr. Secretary of State nodding - do you know what it was? That when the chimney sweep went out and checked the chimney, he had to sign the paper that he had done the work. That was the very administrative burden. Won't there be such an administrative burden when he has to order it and then go out, and then he has to sign or sign the papers the same way? But if such an important aspect is the administrative and temporal burden, then there should be no obligation to study! Imagine, it is a huge administrative and temporal burden for parents and children. No driver's license, no one should be able to drive and drive on the road, because obtaining a license is a serious time and administrative burden, and we could still list the things that do not need to be mentioned in this country. You can smile at this, you can shake your head, the problem, Mr Secretary, is that I asked the same question in interpellation today, Mr. Secretary of State Pogács answered it, and you did not pass false data here in Parliament to all Members. You are also deceiving your own representatives. I told you the data from 2015 and 2016 about the number of deaths reported by disaster management. I said disaster control data here, and you disproved it. They told us that it's a lie, that they're giving Members false information. Once again, if this law is passed, it's an attempted murder. I ask all my fellow Members not to be partners in this. In the course of tomorrow, we will also be asking for our amendments so that you can decide calmly and accept the amendments that we have discussed. And there's one very important thing, and that's the last thing I want to talk to you about. Thanks to this amendment, the whole chimney control system could collapse in Hungary today. As a result of this amendment, companies that work together with local authorities under contracts that are still in existence, public service undertakings, are absolutely impossible. They won't be able to do their job, they won't be able to do their job, and we know that disaster management can't do it alone. Is that what you want? To end the chimney sweeping industry in Hungary? Do you want people to die in Hungary? I'm asking you to reconsider. Even if you shake the Secretary of State's head, this law, if you accept it, will be the result. The consequences will be death, unfortunately, and then, when they happen, you can say that you thought completely differently. The death of those people who, under the influence of this law, will die as a result of this law will be on your conscience in the coming period. We want no man to die. We want no such tragedy to occur in this country, but you are moving this whole society around. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-16-258	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment on the remaining timeframes. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Contra on Charles' signal:]] I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra. [[18.40]]
u2017-10-16-259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In the general debate on the bill, we had an in-depth and detailed debate on the bill. I would also like to say here and stress that the control of chimneys in Hungary will not cease - so it will not cease. The person who says this is not telling the truth, neither Tamás Harangozó, nor György Szilágyi, because the chimney check also remains in single-room real estate, in the family houses. The only thing that changes is that the owner has to order this job. I ask you, honourable Members, to trust the Hungarian people that the Hungarian people have the sense of responsibility that this work will be ordered and this work will be carried out by disaster management and service providers. Tamás Harangozó said that there is neither man nor instrument in disaster management, so said the Member, I deny it, I reject it, because disaster protection has the conditions that are necessary to carry out the quality of the work. So I'm asking you not to make a fuss, not to paint the picture completely unwarranted, because once again, the chimney sweep is not going to stop. And I would also like to say that the deaths were not caused by the state of the chimneys, but by the poor condition of the combustion plants in the vast majority of cases. We hope, by the way, and I would like to say that I fully agree with you, Mr Bellozó and Mr Szilágyi, that we also want no one to die, no one to die. We want service providers to perform quality, quality, and make it easier for people to order this service in single-dwelling properties, for those living in family homes, to use this service. I would also like to underline that this service is free, so you do not have to pay for it. Therefore, all you have to do for the owners is order it, and when it is ordered and service providers show up, the service providers will do this job. So I would ask everyone who lives in single-room real estate to use this service after the adoption of the law, as this service is free of charge thanks to the reduction of the rent. And I would ask my fellow Members not to make a fuss. Congressman István Ikotity, I'm sorry you didn't wait for my answer, but I would like to say that the water supply... [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2017-10-16-260	Here, as a notary... [[Dr. Pál Völner: It's in Helyen!]]
u2017-10-16-261	I'm sorry, he's in position. Then I'll make it clear that it's not in its place, and I looked at it... [[György Szilágyi, pointing to the notary's seat: But there is his place!]]
u2017-10-16-262	This is where he belongs.
u2017-10-16-263	Then let's be precise: he is not in his seat as a representative, but in his place as a notary. Honourable Congressman, I salute you with great respect. Thank you for your input. I would like to say that the agricultural chamber has proposed to increase the volume of water without the obligation to pay water supplies. On this basis, the legislator presented this proposal, in particular with a view to making it easier for farmers to use it and water a larger area. I think that this is in the interests of all of us, not just farmers, because it is in Hungary that the agricultural economy should be effective, not so much exposed to weather conditions, and I think that this proposal - once again, on the proposal of the Chamber of Agriculture - is in the national interest. I would ask the honourable Member with great respect once again to consider whether you can support this amendment for this reason. Dear Parliament, I believe that both in the general debate and now we have been able to explain the most important criticism: it is not true that there is no or no mandatory chimney sweeping, but the situation is that, according to the proposal, the owner, the single-dwelling property, the family house, the property owner is ordered. So these services will not cease, single-compartment properties will also have chimney sweeping services, only easier and faster access. I ask you all with great respect, and I trust that I can soften the heart of Mr Szilágyi in this regard, to play on the same team here, all Members of Parliament. I believe that no one's health should be affected, but that they should be able to access this service in a simpler way, namely, given that I am now calling the attention of the honourable customers to use it, if Parliament has accepted that no one's life should be put at risk, you should support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. György Szilágyi: Is that enough?]]
u2017-10-16-264	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Following the 2011 Environmental Product Award LXXXV. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/17569. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Dénes Galambos, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-10-16-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 12 October 2017, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2011 LXXXV on the Environmental Product Award. T/17569. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. He supported by 20 votes in favour, with 4 abstentions, without voting against. The bill contains provisions aimed at reducing the administrative and economic burden on the parties responsible for implementing environmental objectives, ensuring consistency with domestic legislation and reducing the administrative burden of interpretation. The Legislative Committee supported the background of the Committee on Sustainable Development in the process of negotiating the bill, which was further clarified by the Legislative Committee. Therefore, the summary amendment removes the product fee increase for plastic bags and advertising paper from the original proposal. The European Commission's legislative activity, which contains provisions on changes to the principle, concepts, main provisions of waste management legislation and to waste management objectives in the Member States, is ongoing. This package of proposals has not yet been adopted, and I would like to point out in my speech as rapporteur for the Committee on Legislative Affairs that, in this respect, the Legislative Committee does not wish to impose burdens on farmers, businesses, by applying this element of the legislation. The amendment to the Environmental Product Fee Act before us is a very important element of the fact that it also includes measures to reduce entrepreneurship in its annexes. Let me refer here to, for example, and thank you very much for the fact that, on the part of the purse, the Secretary of State and his colleagues also took into account businesses operating in this circle, which produce products from recycled raw materials, for example, up to 100 percent of which I am talking about paper materials, and in this respect, the acceptable reduction in product charges, which is proportionate to reducing entrepreneurship, but which is clearly available for the budget, has been applied with a sufficient and good sense in the portfolio. [[18.50]] In view of this, we propose that the Parliament discuss and adopt the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-16-266	Thank you very much, Congressman Dénes Pigeon. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[Zsolt V. Németh: Thank you very much, Mr President, I do not wish this time.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, There is no representative of the Committee for Sustainable Development in this room who has presented a minority opinion. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. I will ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Therefore, the debate is closed and I would like to ask the rapporteur again whether he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[On the mark of Zsolt V. Németh:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Secretary Zsolt V. Németh.
u2017-10-16-267	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment of the Product Law to the House aimed at reducing the burden of economic enterprises subject to a product charge. In addition, we have set the objective of reducing the administrative burden and ensuring consistency with other legislation, such as tax legislation. So I stress that it was a reduction in the burden and a reduction in the burden is the main objective of the legislation, but now, by means of the amendments, we can not only say that it has almost without exception stated a reduction in the burden, but that it has no exception. In the two items in which we proposed a reduction in product charges in terms of other environmental objectives, such as plastic carrier bags and paper publications for commercial advertising, we also stopped there. We do this because it is of principle, for example, in the case of carrier bags, because Hungary has taken effective measures years ago, far ahead of the European Union, which has reduced the amount of plastic bags in Hungary by half. We will have the opportunity in the coming time, in the context of the transition to a circular economy, following the adoption of the EU legislative package, to have a general overview of this area. In the other case, in the case of economic advertising carriers, paper advertising media, we also took into account the request of printing companies. We believe that this product tariff arrangement will also be possible at a later date, also in line with the circular economy. Thank you for the supporting opinions expressed in the debate, and I would like you to do the same on the day of tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-16-268	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Zsolt V. Németh. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's report on the adoption of the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2016 follows a debate. Submission by the Judicial Committee H/17398 The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak on behalf of the Judicial Committee. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey says no.]] He doesn't want to speak. Thank you. Dear Parliament, I'm going to ask you if you'd like to speak on behalf of the government, Secretary of State. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] Mr. Secretary of State says no. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Kresta Traján, Romanian ethnic advocate, rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary related to the debate. You have the floor, Kresta Trajan.
u2017-10-16-269	Onorată Adunare Națională, Onorate Domnule Președinte, Doamnelor și Dominilor! Dear Parliament, Mr President, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary is responsible for the implementation of Article 10/2014 on certain house rules. Decision No 44-45. H/17398, which was submitted by the Judicial Committee, was conducted pursuant to §8 of the Rules of Procedure. The detailed discussion of the proposal for a decision. Having examined the proposal for a decision, it was found that it complied with the house rules 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The Committee shall not submit a proposal for an amendment to the Commission closing a detailed debate. The committee closed the detailed debate on the proposal for a decision on 10 October 2017. B/14301. On the basis of the report presented and the experience of the last year, the Committee has assessed the activities of the Deputy and Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights in matters of nationality and its cooperation with the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary as meaningful and effective. On this basis, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary supports the adoption at the plenary session of the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2016, the H/17398 submitted by the Committee on Justice. ANNEX II to vote in favour of a proposal for a decision. Thank you very much for your attention. Vă mulțumesc pentru atenția cu care m-ați onorat! [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-16-270	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I would like to ask who would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[Dr. Vas Imre reporting.]] I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, Fidesz.
u2017-10-16-271	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. During the general debate, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights made oral additions to the report he prepared and effectively answered the questions raised in the context of the report. In the light of the report, it can be stated that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputies carry out their duties at a high level, and their report also describes in detail the smallest issues. I therefore call for your vote to support the adoption of the proposal for a decision. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-16-272	Thank you, Congressman Vas Imre. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur again if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[The candidate is Dr. Imre Vejkey:]] Press the button. Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, President of the Commission, KDNP.
u2017-10-16-273	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard two comments from our Romanian spokesperson, on the one hand, and Imre Vas, on the other hand, from Fidesz. They both support the proposal for a decision adopting a report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputy in 2006. I would also ask the factions that have not spoken on this issue to support it tomorrow. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-16-274	Thank you very much, Congressman Vejkey. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. It is now up to XLIX of 1991 on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. The Commission's reports on the proposal to amend law for harmonisation purposes and the discussion of the summarised amendment. The government referral is T/16275. a serial number and the Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. [[19.00]] Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-10-16-275	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/16275 on 12 October. XLIX of 1991 on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. A bill amending law for the purposes of harmonisation was submitted by the committee with 23 votes in favour, 4 votes against and no abstentions, together with an amendment and a summary report. The summarised amendment contains the clarifications proposed by the Judicial Committee, in particular language, technical and legal. The proposal before us lays down national supplementary rules in the context of insolvency proceedings involving businesses in the Member States of the European Union, namely the European Parliament and the Council 2015/848. in the context of its regulation, which replaced the former Council Regulation (EC) No 1346/2000. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill facilitates more efficient information flows and reduces costs in international procedures, so please contribute to the adoption of the proposal. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2017-10-16-276	Good evening. Thank you very much for your patience. I'll ask the author if he has anything to add. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] By wagging the head of the Secretary of State, he expresses his will. Thank you very much. As the rapporteur did not speak, he did not give a closing statement, and the designated Judicial Committee did not set up a rapporteur, now there may be speeches from its representatives. No two-minute comments are possible, but this is not a problem because no one has applied for a two-minute speech. In fact, if I go further, I will ask the Members of the Honourable Parliament who are present whether anyone, any Member, would like to comment in any form. [[There's no signal.]] I am very pleased to note that the results here are the same as for the two-minute ones. The debate is therefore closed. It is my duty to ask Mr. Secretary of State. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] Now, by moving your hand, you're expressing the same thing as you just did with your head wagging. [[Defiance.]] We can therefore conclude that I can conclude the debate in a calm manner. I can inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2016 CXXX on the Civil Procedure is on the line. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to the entry into force of law and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/17165. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, in the debate, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in a maximum of 15 minutes. Congressman Vas Imre, the rapporteur for the committee is coming. Here you go.
u2017-10-16-277	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee has negotiated the CXXX of 2016 on civil procedure on the basis of house rules. T/17165 amending certain laws relating to the entry into force of law. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were adopted by the Committee by 23 votes in favour and 5 votes against. The summarised amendment contains a proposal for an amendment to the Judicial Committee closing a detailed debate, which contains largely codification and technical clarifications. It should be pointed out from a point of view that the relevant provision of Act L of 2009 on the order for payment procedure would require the party to be warned in relation to the notary information on mandatory electronic communications that, if he does not submit the submission to the court by electronic means, the termination of the procedure will also be the consequence of the new Pp. Based on the results of the study. The new Pp. and, in conjunction with the amended provisions of the bankruptcy law, the Legislative Committee's proposed amendment makes it an obligation for the insolvency practitioner to inform the worker of the need and time limit for bringing proceedings at the same time as the dispute. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, the proposal contains largely codification and technical clarifications, while substantive changes protect the interests of citizens. In view of this, I would like your support. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-16-278	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary? [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] Mr. Secretary, you do not wish to comment. No one came forward for a two-minute comment. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. I would like to ask the Members of the Honourable Parliament who are present, if anyone would like to comment. [[There's no signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State... [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] It indicates that you have nothing to say - nothing to do with it. So I will inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the application of legal aid and the right to record costs in civil and administrative court proceedings and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow up. The government referral is T/17167. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. You have 15 minutes to take advantage of it, and by the way, it's up to Congressman Vas Imre how much of it you use. Here you go.
u2017-10-16-279	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I'm trying not to take full time. I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee has discussed the application of legal aid and the right to register costs in civil and administrative court proceedings T/1716. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were adopted by 22 votes in favour, no votes against, with 6 abstentions. The Legislative Committee did not make any specific amendment, so the summarised amendment contains only the amendment closing the detailed discussion of the Judicial Committee. In addition to codification and technical clarifications, the main point of the proposal is that legal aid in janitorial proceedings also covers the carer's fee. The trustee is the CXXX of 2016 on the Civil Procedure. According to the rules of law, he is a regular participant in the janitorial proceedings. Since the goal to be achieved through a janitorial suit cannot be achieved without the trial being launched, the concerned parties are also exempted from paying the caretaker's fee, as Pp. in principle, physical legal aid does not cover the carer's fee. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, the proposal contains largely codification and technical clarifications, and the substantive amendment is important for citizens' interests. In view of this, I ask you to support the adoption of the bill. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-16-280	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] Secretary of State Völner does not wish to comment. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. I would like to ask if one of the honourable Members wishes to comment on the item on the agenda. [[There's no signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. [[19.10]] As a couple already practicing with the Secretary of State, we find that he does not wish to comment, and I will inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 1996 LVII on the prohibition of unfair market behaviour and restrictions on competition follows. a debate on the Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and certain related legislative provisions and on the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/17570. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a maximum period of 15 minutes. I call on Congressman Dénes Galambos, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2017-10-16-281	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee is the House Rules 46. On the basis of Article 4 of the Act on the prohibition of unfair market conduct and of restrictions on competition, LVII of 1996 discussed: Law No.2 - Tpvt in short. - and T/17570, amending certain related legislative provisions. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. By 23 votes in favour, 4 against and 1 abstention. The Legislative Committee did not make any specific amendment, so the summarised amendment contains only the proposal for an amendment closing the detailed debate on the Economic Committee. In addition to codification and technical clarifications, Tpvt is the basis for the proposal. Act I of 2017 on the Administrative Rules of Procedure is incorporated and adapted to Kp. its system, which takes away administrative litigation from rural courts, administrative judgement. The KP. Thus, the Act on Administrative Procedure provides for the exclusive jurisdiction of the Metropolitan Court to deal with appeals against decisions of administrative and labour courts. There will therefore be no need for administrative judges in rural courts, including their designation. Because of the Tpvt. It specifically regulates an administrative action, which requires the administrative judge and his approach. The Law on Administrative Rules of Procedure was intended to concentrate on the types of cases and with them the expertise. The amending proposal adapts the relevant jurisdiction rule, installs all elements of the administrative aspects of competition law to the Metropolitan Tribunal and promotes the concentration of competition law knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, the proposal contains largely codification and technical clarifications, and the substantive amendment is intended to focus on the types of cases and, together with them, expertise, which facilitates a higher quality, more efficient and more uniform justice system. In view of this, and in the light of the professional arguments, I would like to ask for your support for the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-16-282	Thank you very much. As rapporteur, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State whether he wishes to react. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Not now.]] Answer me this is not the time. As no rapporteur has been presented by the designated Economic Committee, speeches may follow. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. I ask whether any of the honourable Members present wish to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Mr. Secretary of State has the right, but he did not wish to use it to comment here, so, Mr. Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, The Judicial Committee follows a series of questions 10/2014-2018. Ü/17807 on the rejection of the IUB Generally Effective Resolution Submitted by the Group of the LMP. The debate will be the first to be heard by a Member of the Group proposing a decision and then by the rapporteur of the Judicial Committee. The speeches will then take place. I give you the floor, Honourable Parliament, to Congressman István Ikotity, the notary of the Parliament. You have a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2017-10-16-283	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The parliamentary group of the LMP requested a resolution of the Judicial Committee responsible for interpreting the provisions of the house rules on the rules of the Parliamentary Act on illustration by means of material, visual or audio media. In his practice of housekeeping with regard to illustration, the principle of zero tolerance currently applies. The guide also considers raising a sheet of paper to be an illustration. An example is Bernadett Szél's statement of 19 April 2017 or prior authorisation, as opposed to the Parliamentary Act 38/A. § 4 does not allow for an illustration to the extent necessary to express the speaker's position, but, without any criteria or remedies which cannot be predicted, it gives unlimited scope to restrict the forms of freedom of expression of the Members of the Speaker's deliberations. For example, on the 6 March 2017 meeting, do you think it is possible to live without a green surface? His interpellation. The current practice of prohibiting or sanctioning an illustration of the effectiveness, smooth functioning, authority and dignity of Parliament in a manner that does not interfere with its effectiveness and dignity cannot be constitutionally justified, in addition to the fact that unnecessary and disproportionate restriction constitutes an illegitimate control of the political opinion and expression of Members of Parliament. The LMP therefore requested the Judicial Committee to interpret in its resolution the relevant regulatory provisions and to designate the extent and framework of the possible restriction on the form of freedom of expression for its representatives. In accordance with the opinion of the Committee of 2 October 2017 each case shall be examined and judged in its own individuality, taking into account all the circumstances of the case, when determining the framework for the illustration. In the Committee's view, the historical history and international practice of the explanatory memorandum could provide guidance. In accordance with the opinion of the Committee of 2 October 2017 each case shall be examined and judged in its own individuality, taking into account all the circumstances of the case, when determining the framework for the illustration. In the Committee's view, the historical history and international practice of the explanatory memorandum could provide guidance. The assessment of the extent necessary to express the speaker's position is undoubtedly a matter of interpretation and therefore requires discretion. However, the Committee's position, which gives examples of international and Hungarian legal history, does not deal with the problem itself. What ensures that the requirement of impartial judgment is met in a prior, essentially content-controlled licensing system, dependent on a speaker's discretion? Certainly not the international examples of the resolution at random. How is it relevant, for example, for domestic practice that members of Israeli knesszet should not present any objects in plenary, but the President of the German Bundestag generally does not object to the presentation of small objects? I consider it important that the Judicial Committee 10/2014-2018. By rejecting the resolution of IUB, the National Assembly draws attention to the absurdity of the regulation of the illustration and the unsustainable nature of arbitrary housekeeping practices. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support the rejection of this decision in the vote. Thank you for your attention. [[19.20]]
u2017-10-16-284	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to the chairman of the Justice Committee, representative of Imre Vejkey, representative of KDNP. You have five minutes, tops, Mr. President. Here you go.
u2017-10-16-285	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Judicial Committee has examined and interpreted the rules governing the illustration of the Parliamentary Act on the motion for a political order of business. Ladies and Gentlemen, In a general resolution, the Committee pointed out that the law was clear when it stated that the illustration at plenary and committee meetings was not, in principle, applicable. However, further provisions of the law provide for the possibility that, in exceptional cases, when it is essential to apply the illustration in support of, opening up or understanding the speaker's position, the House Committee or the Parliamentary Committee may grant exemption from the prohibition. The use of the illustration is, in the opinion of the members of the committee, essential if it is not possible to understand the position of the speaker without the use of a tangible, visual or audio medium. Thus, the purpose of the illustration is to make the speaker's position more complete, to the extent strictly necessary to facilitate its opening. This commitment also includes the fact that the illustration cannot be self-serving, that is to say it cannot aim itself at the deliberate obstruction of parliamentary work, provocative attention or political gain, or at the greater interest of press publicity, as this would fundamentally undermine the dignity of the other Members and the authority of the Parliament itself as an institution, while at the same time undermining the confidence in representative democracy. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the opinion of the members of the committee, the right of speech in Parliament, the exercise of the right of expression not only entails rights, but also a simultaneous obligation and responsibility, the extent of which depends on the situation, the means used and the context in which it was created. Therefore, in its position, the Judicial Committee stated that its assessment cannot be established from an exact point of view, only in the light of all the circumstances of the case in question, the case in question can be individually examined and investigated in all cases. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-16-286	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. I will ask if anyone wishes to speak on behalf of the factions or of the independent Members. No disrespect, but I had to address the independent Members because it is written here, but otherwise there is not a single independent Member in this Chamber, so this obviously does not play a role here. I said this for such a long time to give the other non-attached Members time to think about whether they would like to speak, and it is already a hit, because as a Member of the KDNP, Imre Vejkey asked for the floor, who, of course, I would like to give the floor, although as President of the Commission, there is still a way to speak later. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: I'll be president of the committee later.]] Thank you very much. I will make sure that no one in this House wishes to comment on the subject, so I will ask Mr Ikotity if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[István Ikotity: Yes.]] Here you go. You have two minutes.
u2017-10-16-287	I'll be much shorter. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, The fact is, what was said was exactly what I criticized in my suggestion. At the moment, we feel that in the Hungarian Parliament, the Member does not have the freedom to be viewed even in the simplest way. Once again, I would like to ask my fellow Members to reject this extremely bad precedent in the context of tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-16-288	Thank you very much. President Vejkey, as chairman of the Justice Committee, may reflect on what has been said. You have two minutes. Here you go.
u2017-10-16-289	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not agree with my colleague István Ikotity that there is no freedom to illustrate. My position is to have freedom. But, as I said, freedom also entails obligations, so there is a procedure for this freedom, that it must be announced to the House Committee. If announced to the House Committee, the House Committee may decide or, if there is no agreement, the President himself. The fact is that it is not entirely correct that in all cases, if there is an announcement, the notification is rejected. I could give you examples. I was just thinking of a better example. When they wanted to present a relic of a Honvéd salad, which was related to the Pusk, the House Committee and the Speaker gave their consent, and they were able to present it to their speech at that time. So there are cases where the House Committee decides that there is a possibility. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament to reject the request of the Group of the LMP, thus maintaining the position of our committee. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-16-290	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to inform you that the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, after the agenda, Mr István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, spoke with the title "Exorcism in Parliament." You have five minutes. Here you go.
u2017-10-16-291	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, This is the first time I have had the opportunity to respond to a case last week, because, in one case, we have to respond where it was said, and this is at the beginning of last week's speech by the Secretary of State, András Aradszki, in which he made statements that were rudely offensive to Christianity and, by the way, insulting him himself, as well as all people and all Hungarians, to which, in some way, we have to respond locally. There are two large groups of people I'd like to respond to. The first is that Mr Aradski suggested that he use various religious means to make his political opponents impossible. This raises the following concerns. First of all, he had a statement that the rosary was the best way against the devil, and he claimed that George Soros was the devil himself - he literally put it this way - so it could be the best way against him, and he will see the effect of it. In particular, I would like to say that such and all religious prayers in the rosary are a meditation prayer. The whole point is to focus on repairing yourself, overcoming and developing the evil in it. Who sees a contemplative prayer as a magical instrument that will drive the devil away as a toolkit of folk superstition or some tribal religion, well, its appearance between the walls of this Parliament is equal to neopodism. The use of such a magic - and he used it in a magical sense - is totally unacceptable, and he paints the picture for either Christians or the entire Hungarian audience, who watches parliamentary mediation, that it is some form of expression that he is a Christian himself. He made his speech on behalf of KDNP. I would like to point out that this is not a Christian attitude, and I would also like to point out that this is completely unworthy of a Member of Parliament. If there were such a thing as that, that it was something morally wrong, then the church had the teaching office that could do its own revelation. The fact that a politician uses religious means to achieve his own goals, to make his opponents impossible is totally unacceptable - this is one of them. The second was that if this KDNP representative had intended to improve this situation by claiming himself as a Christian and by acting as a Christian, he would obviously have intended to encourage the person in question, called Satan, to convert. But that wasn't his intention. His purpose was clearly to make him look bad, to arouse hatred, and to put him in a situation that would make him look bad. That is indisputably true. [[19.30]] Therefore, in this respect, I also think that he did not only harm the cause of the cause of Christianity, he did not only destroy the authority of the Hungarian Parliament, he did not only harm his own party with this speech, with which he practically introduced such a neopodic superstition, but also, I believe, that he did himself harm. I think that Andras Aradski should think about this, because what they put in front of him and what he reads is his responsibility. The fact that he doesn't know that, he doesn't know that is his responsibility, he can look into that. The consequence, on the other hand, of the whole Parliament, of its party, of the parliament, of Hungarian society, is something that I think needs to be adjusted. Here, as a Member of Parliament, I would also ask Andras Aradszki to correct this statement as soon as possible and to clarify this situation, why he used such instruments, and why he wanted to harm anyone in this way. Mr President, thank you for the floor.
u2017-10-16-292	Thank you very much, Congressman. After the agenda, Mr Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-scheduled speech: . After the Soros plan, when will they start consulting on a South Somogy plan? It's an address. Here you go.
u2017-10-16-293	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, For the sake of my fellow pro-government Members, I do not like a financial vampire dressed in a philanthropic mask even when you or some of your party members were still eating from the palm of your hand, even though I am not an old man. However, we do not like the popular demagoguery in the benches of Jobbik here, and we do not like the fact that they want to smear very, very important things here in Hungary with this so-called consultation, and not to talk about the substance. We should talk about the point, there, in my country, in South Somogy, because you have to say something, say, in a public reception class, to a young mother who signs our wage union initiative with her child, but says that she and her husband and the other two children are going out to the West. Something should also be said to the pair of parents, of whom three out of four children are already out in the West. These issues should be addressed, and the problems of South Somogy, because for the many times I say here in Parliament, the Ormany will also swallow that region if the southern ferret of Somogyia is not given sufficient attention from the pro-government benches. Let's talk about specific numbers here. According to Eurostat data, in 2010 Hungary was ranked fourth out of 11 countries in the region, and now we have moved back to the eighth place. In terms of per capita consumption, we were fifth in 2010, but under the influence of the almost past year, we are also in the eighth place, on the same level with Romania, only Bulgaria and Croatia are prevented. We should talk about consulting on how it is possible that Slovak net average wages now beat at least EUR 100 a month to Hungarians. It should be said that the narrower Patria of the 263 regions of the European Union, South Transdanubia, is there in the shameful tenth place from behind, obviously. We should talk about spending on the R &amp; D sector on an annual basis in Hungary barely exceeding 300 euros, but this is only 42 euros in South Transdanubia. How will this be in that region, my fellow members of the government, let's say, prosperity? Obviously, it doesn't. It should be said that there are 12 districts to be developed or developed with complex programmes from 69 districts in the 9 counties of Dunántúl, and of these 12 are actually located near the Croatian border, along the Drava 5 in a group, creating a region of crisis. And I would add that in my constituency there are three of these five districts, the Csurgo, the Nagyatádi, the Barcsi, and the neighbouring Baranya, the district of Szigetvári and Sellyei. We should talk about the fact that Prime Minister is talking about broad-shouldered, muscular cities, but then what about those small settlements, let's say, in my constituency, there are 55 small settlements of less than a thousand people, where there is actually nothing, because everything is being closed down. These issues should be discussed and, for example, why the young people mentioned above need to leave Hungary to realize, say, in England or Germany, the dream of the three rooms and four wheels in Orbán. Then we should also talk about whether there really is a decisive middle class there in South Somogy. You can see there's no such thing. A picture of a Latin American society unfolds, say, in front of the viewer. There's a lot of unemployment, and it's only in the northeast corner of the country. There are few self-employed people, and if they're not licking your pro-government potentas' asses, then there is no tender or public procurement for them. So they can look at you. It should be said that if services, education, health care, concentration of various offices continue, what will happen next to the current poor infrastructure with the people living in these small settlements. We should talk about whether it is legitimate, when they feel excluded from the world, that they are a kind of secondary citizens of this Hungarian country, which they would carry on their backs or carry on their backs if they left them. We should also talk about what, let's say, the issue of Gypsy integration there in South Somogy, but we can see that from the pro-government side, there is no reception. All we can promise is that the Fidesz will go, we will come, the wall will stand, the thieves will sit, and the wages will certainly rise. Thank you for your attention. [[Gregory Wolf applauds.]]
u2017-10-16-294	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, applied for a speech after the agenda:. As a 21st-century party, Jobbik faces the new challenges of the 21st-century - IV. the title of the subpart. Here you go.
u2017-10-16-295	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Coming to the fourth part of my series of speeches, allow me to say a few words about the so-called sharing economy, the economy based on community or otherwise known division, the 21st century. 100th century challenges and opportunities as one element. What do we need to understand about a sharing economy? If you look at the concept, it essentially means an economic and social system that allows for shared access to goods and services, data and knowledge, i.e. community access. It is therefore an economic activity based on the Internet and smartphone applications, through which people can obtain goods and services that they have previously purchased with a personal presence. We can see that this community economy is very popular among young people and in the media and is a widespread phenomenon worldwide. For example, according to a study in China, the value of share economy-like transactions has increased by 40 percent per year and by 2025 it can already give 20% of the country's GDP. It is also a meaningful analysis that, by 2025, the current EUR 28 billion to EUR 570 billion, i.e. 20 times the number of major sectors of European sharing economy5, community funding, community-based accommodation sharing, passenger transport, all transactions in on demand household and professional services. We can meet him in everyday life, as he appears in various areas. Take just a few known examples, passenger transport, used goods trade, parking, guided tour, pets, sports equipment rental, meals, car rental, services, investment, microcredit, used clothes, home delivery, accommodation, but you can share gardens, DIY tools and millions of other things in this way. Unfortunately, however, experience also shows that this sector and its representatives are not really talking at political level. In fact, they are trying to reduce their importance as much as possible, even though they can be a huge breakout point for the country. This difference of attitude between the government and Jobbik in connection with Uber has also been shown. As you may remember, while we, Jobbik, wanted to regulate Uber's operation, the ruling party banned it. The will was lacking in Fidesz, and unfortunately this is reflected in many other areas. In contrast, Jobbik's conviction is that if Hungary was the first to create a regulatory framework for the community economy in the world, Hungary would be a paradise for such start-ups, which could be an even more serious economic break-out for Hungary. What new areas are emerging, and what challenges should we find a solution to in the near future? The list is almost endless, but we can highlight one of the most important, robotisation, including the use of the Internet of Things, i.e. intelligent devices connected to the network, at a higher level. [[19.40]] According to a study by The World Economic Forum, 5 million jobs could be lost worldwide by 2020. If the country's ability to adapt its economic and education policies is strong and workers are successfully retrained, 2.1 million jobs can be created according to this study. It is crucial to provide proactive responses to technological changes and their consequences. Each country should strive to steer both positive and negative processes into a regulated environment, with the involvement of all stakeholders, of course. Jobbik therefore gives priority to promoting technological development and reducing the possible negative effects of the consequences, following a proactive approach in defining economic and education policies. We want to create a number of specific economic recovery programmes to support technological development. In this way, we want to achieve, among other things, a targeted integration programme, including in manufacturing, automotive priority, agriculture and health-related developments. Jobbik intends to promote new jobs and the re-location of working-age citizens through state-supported new training and retraining programmes, taking into account the needs of all stakeholders. We believe that in order for new jobs to be created as quickly as possible and for citizens who have lost their jobs to be able to fill new jobs as soon as possible, there is a huge responsibility for the economic and education policies of each country. Dear House, There is no doubt that this is an economic potential in the context of sharing economy, which could mean an enormous scale of development for Hungary. Therefore, if it really is XXI. We want to put our country on a centuries-old orbit, so it's definitely worth keeping an eye on all of this. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-16-296	Thank you. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Horváth, representative of Fidesz, asked for a speech with the title "Governor's help to prevent drinking water pollution in Abasár." Here you go.
u2017-10-16-297	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps Konrad Lorenz said, if not literally, that man is blessed and beaten to do more than he can, but we could also simply say that it is not knowledge that often makes a man brave. Such a lack of knowledge marked the former socialist military industry activities, which were in the industrial area of Sar-hegy, Pipis-hegy, located in the 1950s and 1960s, among others, above Abasár, Gyöngyös. This lack of knowledge and this courage enabled organic solvents to be introduced from the surface of the mountain into the interior of the mountain. Of course, the former industrial companies disappeared without a successor, but the contamination remained, and in 40-50 years the contamination reached the drinking water wells in the cracky rocks of Mount Sar, namely in October 2013 these organic solvents appeared in fountains providing water supply in Abasar, which are extremely dangerous poisons. Carcinogens number one, their danger is that, rather than drinking, such contaminated water should not be used for washing, washing, and cooking. Thus, on 7 October 2013, the local population met from one moment to the next with the need to meet their drinking water needs from flat cars. It is fortunate that until 15 November 2013, the locals had to live like this, as the government gave quick help to the inhabitants of the settlement. With this help, it helped not only the inhabitants of the settlements, but also the inhabitants of the surrounding settlements, and even the whole area of Gyöngyös, since from 260 million forints on the one hand it was possible to build a new power line, because water had to be brought from a new, healthy drinking water base to the water plant, and water bases had to be examined very quickly, the level of contamination had to be determined and the reason for the contamination had to be revealed. After all this, the government - as the story does not end here - has also helped to complete plans and licensed plans for drainage and water management. It also provided support, and a few weeks ago, according to a new decision, it provided an additional HUF 600 million to the service provider, as water, water breaks, dredgings, and earth slides from contaminated wells threaten the various structures and installations of the waterworks that now provide healthy water, on the one hand, and on the other hand, these waterfalls made it necessary to rethink the drainage of surface water, as they can cause further damage by breaking into cellars and dwellings. So far, the government has provided nearly 900 million forints to cover this water pollution, but it is likely that the process of intervention will be decades. Experts say that if there is no such continuous intervention, the further spread cannot be avoided and the number is well heard by my fellow Members, the 300-400-year presence of this contamination should be considered. Thank you for the government's help not only on behalf of the Abasarias, the people in the area, the people in the Pearl region, and we very much hope that such ticking bombs are not elsewhere, there are no more land mines left after the socialist nightmare. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-16-298	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. I will inform you and everyone who will monitor our work that the Parliament will resume its meeting at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Good night, everyone. [[Meeting ended at 7:47 p.m.]]
