u2017-06-14-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning, fellow Members. The 36th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Dezső Reliable notaries will be here to help me. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching our work today. Decisions on the agenda are now taking place. Please check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machine. It follows in line with the T/155550 of the Convention of 26 June 1990 on the temporary importation of goods in Istanbul, on the publication of an amendment to Annex A to the Convention of 26 June 1990. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/155550 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 195 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows from the publication of the T/155551 of the amendment to the Customs Convention of 14 November 1975 concerning the international carriage of goods by TIR pass. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/155551 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 194 votes in favour, without voting against or abstaining. A multilateral agreement between the competent authorities on the exchange of country-by-country reports is hereby published in T/15552. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/15552 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 195 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Following is the T/155554 of the Agreement between Hungary and the Kingdom of Cambodia on the promotion and mutual protection of investments. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur is Mr T/15554/2. has submitted an adjustment, which is available to all of them on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/155554 will accept it. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 194 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. The Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the World Health Organisation on the organisation of the 67th session of the European Regional Committee of the World Health Organisation, to be held in Budapest, Hungary, from 11-14 September 2017. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur is T/15553/2. has submitted an adjustment, which is available on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/155553 accepts it. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 195 votes in favour, without voting against or abstention. [[10.10]] Following the publication of the T/15578 Basic Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the World Health Organisation on the establishment of professional advisory cooperation relations. Final vote of bill No 1. The referring T/15578/2. has submitted an adjustment, which is available on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/15578 will accept it. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 195 votes in favour, without voting against or abstention. It follows from the publication of the Partnership Agreement on relations and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and New Zealand, of the other part, T/155556. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/155556 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 194 votes in favour, without voting against or abstaining. The T/15781 agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Chile on the temporary work programme of tourists follows. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/15781 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 195 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows the T/15782 of the Convention between Hungary and the Republic of Estonia on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of classified information. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/15782 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 195 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows that T/15329 on the prevention of covert party financing and the provision of transparent campaign funding will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15329/13. T/15329/14. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Rules of Procedure, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 6. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 6 is proposed by Gábor Staudt. A qualified majority is required for maintenance. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 132 against and 4 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 2 of Section T/15329/13 of the LMP Group A separate vote was initiated on points 3 and 8 of the summary amendment proposal. First we decide on these, then we decide on the further points of the summarised amendment proposal. In point 3 of the summarised amendment proposal, the Committee proposes to add a new chapter 2 to the bill. At the request of the LMP, we will decide separately. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of the amendment point requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 3 of the summarised amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not accept the amendment point by 131 votes in favour, 65 against and 2 abstentions. [[10.20]] In point 8 of the summary amendment proposal, the committee shall draw up a legislative proposal. The Commission proposes to amend the provisions of §8 of the Act. At the request of the LMP, we will decide separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 8 of the summarised amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment point by 130 votes in favour, 67 against and 1 abstention. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that points 5, 6 and 11 of this Decision require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/15329/13. Additional points requiring a majority of the total amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not accept the additional points of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority by 131 votes in favour, 67 against and without abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/15329/13. A simple majority of the points of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 131 votes in favour, 64 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, As a result of the previous votes, the chairman must now ask the rapporteur whether he wishes to take a break. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill which has been amended with the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the cardinality provision of the amended bill defines the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/15329 will accept it. The provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not accept the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority by 131 votes in favour, 67 against and without abstention. We now decide on the parts of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/15329 will accept it. The provisions of the amended bill, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority by 131 votes in favour, 64 against and without abstention. In line with the 2015 CCXI on chimney sweeping activities. T/1577. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15778/9 and T/15778/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group initiated the continuation of amendment No 4 and of amendment No 5 by the LMP Group. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 4 is proposed by László Szakács and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 127 against and 3 abstentions. Amendment 5 is a proposal from Member István Ikotity. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 127 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/15778/9. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 174 votes in favour, 3 against and 11 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1577/13. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 177 votes in favour, no votes against, with 11 abstentions. It follows from the Act I of 2010 on the Civil Registration Procedure and the Act XLVI of 2001 on consular protection. T/155559. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/155559 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 131 votes in favour, 30 against and 28 abstentions. Next up is the 2016 XCI on National Farms and Farms of Menes. T/1577. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/15776/6 and its summary report T/15776/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1577/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 127 votes in favour, 3 against and 60 abstentions. [[10.30]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/157768. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 125 votes to two, with 62 abstentions. It follows from the publication of the Protocol to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Serbia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15555/6. T/15555/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1555/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment with 191 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1555/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 190 votes in favour, 1 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We've reached the end of the decisions. Now I'm ordering a few minutes of technical break. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, We'll get back to work. A joint debate on the declaration of the year 2017 as the Memorial Year of St. László will follow. The submission submitted by our better colleagues László Kövér Fideszes, Zsolt Semjén, Imre Vejkey KDNP and Gergely Farkas H/16032. It is available to all of them on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that according to the House Rules adopted, a total of 10 minutes for opening speech and closing speech, 10 minutes for the Government representative's statement, 7 minutes for the legislative committee's speech, 3 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion, 10 to 10 minutes for each speech of the political groups. First, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the author of the item on the agenda, as I have said, in a 10-minute time frame, so that the unused part is turned to the closing word. Here you go.
u2017-06-14-1	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The sovereign Hungarian state based on Western Christian values was founded by our King Saint Stephen, but it was consolidated by King Saint László. Our King Saint László expresses the missionary self-interpretation of Hungarians as a protective shield for Christian Europe. Ladies and Gentlemen, They should know that on August 15, 1096, the Christian cavalry led by Bouillon de Gottfried finally left France for the liberation of the Holy Land, which succeeded, and that as a result we recaptured Jerusalem from the Saracens, thereby saving a large part of our holy places from deliberate destruction. Saving him was extremely important. But the organization of the first crusade itself began a year earlier, that is, in 1095, with the Clermont Synod, where none other than our King St. Laszlo was elected chief of the Crusades, not knowing that our knight king was now in heavenly Jerusalem. That is why Bouillon de Gottfried became the leader of the Crusades, to whom, after reclaiming the Holy Land, he was offered to become king of Jerusalem. But he said that where Jesus wore a crown of thorns, he could not carry a crown of gold. So he refused the royal title in Jerusalem. They should also know that the cavalry led by Bouillon de Gottfried moved from today's France to liberate Jerusalem in Hungary, and when they arrived in our country, they stopped separately at the tomb of our glorious king. Before the grave, the entire Crusade kneels, asking for the heavenly patronage of our holy king. Ladies and Gentlemen, And the poet Sándor Sík wrote of our King László Szent as such: he almost constantly wears it on the palm of his hand, and life wears it at the head of his sword. Every moment he is ready to throw it to the Church, to his country, to some - everything and everyone in whom he sees the two sacraments for which he lived: his life, the Hungarian cause and the cause of God. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[10.40]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Our King Saint László's entire life and all his actions were influenced by his faith in Christian Hungary. Even the chronicler describes him as being firm and merciful. In your body is pure, bright in your soul, brave in your heart, like a wild lion. When he could, he liked to retire and pray. The effectiveness of his prayers also manifests itself in the legends surrounding his figure: before the enemy who pursues the rock, deer herds appear to feed his starving soldiers, and water springs from the rock to his prayer. As we all know. Ladies and Gentlemen, The facts and legends make it necessary to set a commemorative year in 2017 with a parliamentary decision to celebrate our King Saint László. But in the meantime, they must see that the people embodying siren sounds are not idle now, making up the Pharisee charge of why this St. Laszlo year, when we are in the middle of the year, let's do it some other time when we wake up earlier. In response to these siren voices, I have to say that we have not been idle in this case, since Árpád Potápi State Secretary for National Policy already announced in the summer of 2016 that the State Secretary for National Policy itself is declaring the year of St. László for 2017. Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén is the patron of the Szent László Year announced by the State Secretary for National Policy. The commemorative year announced by the State Secretary for National Policy has already had a number of outstanding events, especially the opening event in Győr, then the St. László-Fresk exhibition in Poland, as well as the opening of a travelling exhibition in Zagreb, where János Áder was also the head of the Hungarian Republic. Ladies and Gentlemen, Our King Saint László is an outstanding personality of our history, whose heroic spirit, chivalry and country-building rule we have admired for centuries. As a champion of faith, he still stands as a character role model for the Hungarians as a whole and for his Central European people. The 825th anniversary of his inauguration to the throne therefore gives us an excellent opportunity to implement an even wider series of programmes by means of a parliamentary decision in order to get the message to as many people as possible. Please support the Parliamentary motion for a resolution. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties, sporadic applause from the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-14-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. Out of the 10 minutes, you used 6 minutes 10 seconds, so you will have 3 minutes and 50 seconds to say the closing word. I would like to ask you, on behalf of the government, if the Secretary of State, Árpád Potápi, wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you are, Secretary of State. You've got 10 minutes on schedule.
u2017-06-14-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, As has been said, the Parliament has received a draft parliamentary resolution aimed at declaring this year a commemorative year of St. László. 940 years ago, the promising offspring of the Árpád-ház entered the ranks of Hungarian kings, as Képes Krónika writes: the Hungarian nobles chose László to govern the country with a consenting will, because everyone knew that he was adorned by the fullness of virtues. They weren't wrong. King László has put our nation in the ranks of the leading states of Christian Europe as a performer of St. Stephen's work. With him and by him, the historical role of Hungarians begins to shape the future of the continent. He has brought stability to our country, honor to his nation, and justice to his people. His memory still connects Hungary from Oradea to Debrőd, from Vancouver to Melbourne. His life is not just an example for us today. Perhaps it is no exaggeration to say that St. Laszlo was the first ruler who could speak to all the peoples of Central Europe. It may be unhistoric to project the present situation into the past, but it is safe to say that the V4 were the first symbolic figure. The most important stages of his life are the framework and space in which he lived and thought. Born in Krakow, Polish mother. He formed a bishopric in Zagreb. He died in Nitra, and his final resting place is in Oradea. With his bravery, his wise character, he was an ideal of his time in Central Europe. His respect also links us today, Croatians, Poles, Slovaks and Hungarians. His artefacts are kept outside Hungary in Zagreb, Krakow, Raguza - Dubrovnik. On the 825th anniversary of the inauguration of the throne of our ruler representing the Hungarian nation's union and the unity of the Central European region, the Hungarian government also considers it appropriate to confirm its actions and traditions together. On 17 February 2017, we opened the Szent László year announced by the State Secretary for National Policy in Győr, proudly guarding the Herma of our glorious king, which was commissioned by the Szent László Year Advisory Board and Pro Patria Association. Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén has undertaken the patronage, as he has said from the Member. We implement the program from HUF 82 million, from the amount allocated by our State Secretariat, which we can expand from our own budget if necessary. In doing so, we launched several travelling exhibitions. We presented the knight king's life path, respect, and exhibitions of the most famous frescoes, including Calgary, Dublin, Zagreb and, for example, Krakow, which travel through the Carpathian Basin, Central Europe and Diaspora throughout the year. The Member also mentioned that János Áder was the Hungarian President of Poland, Krakow and Zagreb, as well as Andrzej Duda, the President of the Republic of Poland and Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović in Zagreb. Let me highlight the study competition of Szent László in the Carpathian Basin with the participation of the Karosi Turul Traditional Aryan Association, where he will participate in all regions of the Carpathian Basin at the final of Oradea. We also support the production of a documentary on the examination of the Szent László skull relic. In addition to these, we have also helped organize and provide a number of scientific conferences and publications. The memory of the king of knights will also be revived within the National Vágta, and the pre-runs of Vojvodina, Highland and Muravi will be dedicated to the honor of St. László. At the Szekler Ridge, St. László organizes a tournament of skill. There are commemorations in many parts of the Carpathian Basin. For this year's Szent László Day, the Hungarian Television is also prepared with a special thematic day. Our aim is to involve as many people as possible in the cross-border and transnational series of programmes, supporting their own initiatives, and, of course, to expand this programme year. We are pleased that the leaders of the Central European states agree on issues that fundamentally determine our future and say that our independent states must be protected from external threats. [[10.50]] This also means protecting the legacy of our King Saint Laszlo. That is why we consider it important on the part of the government, and we welcome the symbolic step that the Parliament intends to dedicate the year 2017 to the memory of the Knight King as we approach St. László's Day. Let us hope that this step will contribute to the proper care of the heritage of our holy king, thus helping to bring our nation together and the entire Central European region. St. László's way of life today also warns us that his creation, our Christian and independent country, can continue to be protected only by joint force. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-14-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented, as I have said, within a seven-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur for the Legislative Committee. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-06-14-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I am honored to be able to convey the opinion of the Legislative Committee to you here today. This gives me special pleasure because my constituency, Budapest XVII. From January this year, the schools of Rákosmente and Kőbánya joined the Szent László Memorial Year announced by the State Secretary for National Policy. I think that, not only - and I am now using the commemorative year - I am using it in a good way - we are living it as a commemorative year announced by the State Secretary for National Policy, but we are also raising it to the rank of parliamentary decision, it is very important, but it is not enough. It is very important that schools, kindergartens, society, civil society organisations all organise programmes throughout the year that focus attention on our king of knights. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that, by way of derogation from house rules on 13 June 2017, the Legislative Committee negotiated the H/16032 on the declaration of the year 2017 as the Memorial Year of St. László. The proposal for a decision, submitted by the Committee with 23 votes in favour in the absence of an amended proposal, with 7 abstentions and therefore without a vote against, has been submitted by the Committee. The MSZP's grammatical motion is also not worthy of the spirit of the resolution proposal. It was therefore not supported by the Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask that the year 2017 be declared a commemorative year of St. László, and that you express your agreement with your supporting vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-14-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The speeches will now take place; a timeframe of 10 to 10 minutes per faction is available. First, I give the floor from the Fidesz Group to Mr Robert Balázs Simon. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-06-14-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The proposal for a resolution we are discussing now concerns the declaration of the year 2017 as the Memorial Year of St. László. As we all know, we are celebrating the 825th anniversary of the inauguration of the throne of the Knight King 940. Allow me to take a brief historical look back on the life and activities of our holy king. According to the chronicles, László was born on June 27, 1046 in the Kingdom of Poland. His father Béla I was a Hungarian king, his mother Richéza, II. Daughter of Polish King Micislav. He was a brother to two boys and more girls. His brother Géza ruled between 1074-1077. Among the girls, Zsófia Weimar married Marquis Ulrik, and Ilona became married to Croatian King Zvonimir. László married twice, we do not know the name of his first wife; according to historians, she was a Hungarian lady of the Lord. His daughter, born of this marriage, was married to Russian Prince Yaroslav, and she became widowed to Rudolf's German anti-King daughter, Adelhaid, from whom she had a daughter named Iréne. He was married to the Greek Emperor John. From these marriages, it can be seen that he was related to almost all the neighbouring royal houses, including the two largest, the Greek and the German imperial dynasty. After the death of László's brother, Géza I, after four decades of strife, in the spring of 1077 the country's lords were elected to the throne. His reign was decisive in the history of our people. He led the Hungarians out of the vortex of internal dangers with his excellent powers and valour, and saved him from the devastating attacks of outside enemies. The reorganization of justice played a prominent role in his reign. In the decades of sibling struggles and other internal struggles, the law's binding power has been greatly shaken. In the second year of his reign, in 1078 Pannonhalmán, in the presence of the clergy and nobles, more stringent laws were introduced to strengthen the security of assets. His fame spread across the border, one of the most beautiful knights of the time, and he was targeted as leader of the Crusades. However, this could no longer take place because on July 29, 1095 he moved into eternity. Soon after the death of Cultusa, it was formed. In fact, the people themselves made him holy before the church officially did so. Not only those seeking healing, those seeking comfort, but also the litigation parties in the debate visited his grave. In 1192 III. With papal approval, Béla made his famous predecessor holy, and his relics made a herma, the successor of which is now seen in Győr. Ladies and gentlemen, After Saint László's death, he remained primarily conscious of his laws, his exploits against the Gentiles, his powerful physical strength and virtues. To this day, he is considered one of our most important kings, and his memory is preserved in the Carpathian Basin by numerous statues and institution names. In my constituency, Győr, we have kept the memory of our King Saint László for centuries. This year's unconventionally extended five-day event includes both church and secular programs. Between 23-25 June, visitors will enjoy the atmosphere of knighthood, craftsmanship, contemporary costume parade, tournaments, playhouses and concerts. The central events of the Szent László year will be held on 26 June and 27 June in Győr. A scientific conference and a book and film presentation will be held at the Richter János Concert and Conference Hall on 26 June. In the evening there will be a festive vesper with the leadership of András Veres, Bishop of Győr, at the open-air stage of Dunakapu Square, and the Győr Philharmonic Orchestra will perform with the participation of the Kossuth Prize-winning pianist Gergely Bogányi. On the 27th of June, on the name day of László, Cardinal Péter Erdő, led by the Archbishop of Esztergom-Budapest, will have a solemn Mass in the downtown, which ends with the procession of the traditional Herma of St. Laszlo. In the afternoon, the local government will hold a formal assembly, and the two-day ceremony will be closed by the Ghymes ensemble's evening concert. In order to achieve all of this, we can see significant financial support from the State Secretariat and the Municipality of Győr, and this is how we can achieve this in Győr. Here I would like to say that we welcome all interested guests to the diverse and high quality events in Győr. Ladies and gentlemen, During the 18-year reign of our King St. László, he was outstanding in the fields of lawmaking, church organization and warfare. It is also important to mention his example and virtues in order to find the truths to be followed for ourselves. Because please remember that the Western Christian, European sovereign Hungarian state was founded by István, but it was consolidated by St. László. Finally, as the lead speaker of Fidesz, I can assure you that our group supports the adoption of the resolution proposal on the declaration of the year 2017 as the Memorial Year of St. László. I would also ask the representatives of the other parliamentary groups to support this proposal for a resolution. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[11.00]]
u2017-06-14-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member László Kiss of the MSZP Group asked for the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-06-14-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, When I read this bill, I was a little embarrassed, because I myself, following the activities of the State Secretary for National Policy, believed that it was the Memorial Year of St. László in 2017. As Minister of State Potápi has also explained what preparatory work the State Secretariat has done in this regard and what programmes have been implemented, I suspect, let us say, that it has been further strengthened. I must say that the question of how symbolic this legislation is is is always raised in the symbolic legislation of Parliament, so how much we produce paper law and how we do not do it, but we work for reality. For years of memory so far, it can be said that Parliament has not been too successful. Although a number of memory years have been codified, any change that would have been made anywhere is not to be said. I think it is different in the case of the Memorial Year of St. László, but this is not due to this proposal, but to the proposal of the State Secretary for National Policy, that is to say, the fact that Mr. Potápi's team or the government has, in a somewhat self-acting way, created this commemorative year. Therefore, I think it is a matter of praise to the State Secretary, because, in contrast to previous legislation, which has practically passed without a trace, any symbolic legislation in this House has been organised here. It was very good to hear the speech of my Fidesz fellow Member when he spoke about what was happening in Győr in connection with the Memorial Year of St. László, because here, too, we can see how something is becoming a reality. That's why we're in a weird situation, when reality is about six months late, if we don't talk about the half-year that passed between the initiative of the State Secretary for National Policy and the end of the year in 2016, this legislation is now following. Although it is possible to classify this as a siren voice, it is strange that the House is connected to an existing commemorative year - in quotation marks - and several months after the events a resolution proposal for 2017. There is nothing wrong with that, of course, because why not make such a proposal for a resolution, but it is considered to be okay, I think it is strange. I always watch because of a hobby about how the Hungarian National Bank's commemorative money matches follow the parliamentary pace, i.e. how much the commemorative money issued by the Hungarian National Bank is aware of what the Hungarian Parliament declares it to be. I guess you can guess how much. I would like to point out that, for example, I looked at the 2017 commemorative coin release program, although I tried to remember that this does not include St. László Memorial Medal. Of course, it's not a criticism, it's a fact. Contrary to this: the 200th anniversary of the birth of Zsuzsanna Kossuth, the 775th anniversary of the birth of St. Margaret Árpád, the 200th anniversary of the birth of János Arany, the 200th anniversary of the birth of János Irinyi, the 150th anniversary of the reconciliation, the 125th anniversary of the birth of László Lajtha, the 650th anniversary of the foundation of the University of Pécs and the 500th anniversary of the publication of the Reformation. Obviously, these are very important things, I just wanted to tell you that there are many times that we make a law that we believe is important and good, and then there is no consequence. That's not right. The second thing I would like to talk about is that, of course, it is good to have symbolic legislation if it is really trying to reach consensus. After all, about what many people have talked about and praised the activities of our King Saint Laszlo, I must say that everyone agrees. I think everyone agrees that we are talking about one of the most important rulers that consolidates the Hungarian kingdom and Hungarian statehood, who is right to speak about in this House, and it is right for him to have a memorial year. Similarly, there is no debate about the identity of King Saint László in any evaluation, so whoever here valued Saint László sololy in front of me agrees with any of his words. If you like it, I can say that as a history teacher, when I told the children about St. Laszlo, I said similar things about it. So there is no debate in this either. Nevertheless, for the third year this House has been indebted to the fact that the things in which national unity could be sought, which could express the whole nation and in which everyone agrees, are presented in a way that actually creates this national unity, i.e. each faction should present such proposals together. This isn't happening, it's never happening, it's not happening right now. That's too bad, of course, but it's true. At the same time, I can say that the fact that there is a commemorative year that has actually been organised by the State Secretariat for National Policy, and that some municipalities, hopefully more and more municipalities, are actually involved, certainly highlights this commemorative year from what we have seen over the past several years. It therefore makes it eligible, although I also supported earlier proposals for my part in the hope that it would change the course of things. In addition, I would like to ask either the rapporteur or anyone who is present, that, in the event that he is seeking symbolic legislation, he should definitely pay attention to two things. One is to make the gestures that can express the unity of the nation in this legislation. The other is that something really happens, not only with empty words should we praise the excellent historical figure to whom we are making a memory, but it should indeed happen that this person's parable comes to people's attention a little more in everyday life. For my part, this is why I can support the proposal.
u2017-06-14-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Gergely Farkas is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-06-14-11	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with a lot of what László Kiss said, but I would like to approach this bill in a different tone, because I really believe that it is a matter that is beyond party policy, and if the House is able to show a relatively united state in such a symbolic case, let us approach this proposal in this spirit and try to highlight the common points in addition to mentioning any legitimate criticisms. The common point is clearly the opinion of St. Laszlo and the common consciousness that we want today's young people, today's less young people, society to get to know his activities better, consider his life more exemplary, the virtues that he has shown, because there are many of these virtues that make it worthy to be named this year as a commemorative year. What are these virtues? I have collected four of these smaller points, which are, as appropriate, related to each other. The first is the consolidation of the Hungarian state. After decades of Throne Wars and Brothers' Fights, thanks to his reign, the Hungarian state was solidified, and even in the second half of his reign, we were able to gain land growth, which has been the first increase in our country since St. Stephen. The second is his church policy. During his reign, in 1083, he began the dedication of several former rulers, St. Stephen and St. Imre, as well as the bishop Gellért and two other hermits. This strengthened Hungary in the ranks of the Christian states, giving it its independence. Personal example was also a virtue, which in many cases can be an example for us in the case of Saint László, the knightly virtues, the warrior's brave stand, which has also been revealed there, that for centuries, until World War II, many of our soldiers can help! He marched into battle with a cry and a call. At this level, his legacy remained. But an example can be given of his morality, loyalty, patriotism, the importance of faith in his life, which he presented not at word level, but rather in practice. So there are many values, virtues, in terms of his life and character, to which we can rightly consider as examples. Fourthly, the strengthening of international relations, which has been shown by the Polish mother through the Croatian relative in many other ways, and fortunately, she has been very good at exploiting them from the point of view of our country's progress and the development of our country. [[11.10]] I was the one who, at the House Committee meeting last week, when we first heard about this initiative, suggested that, given the symbolic nature of the case, a five-party submission be made. I am very pleased that the petitioners have contributed to this, so on my part, in the name of the Jobbik fraction, this could already happen. I hope that the other opposition groups will join this proposal, and at this level we will be able to present the common points with a five-party single proposal that we all want this year to be the Memorial Year of St. László. However, I must also say in parentheses, and I am sorry for the delay in adopting this proposal, which could have happened at the end of last year in due preparation. I cannot live with self-criticism because in many cases we have tabled a proposal for a commemorative year, which, unfortunately, was not accepted by the governing party. I think it was not up to us that this initiative was not adopted in time. Indeed, given the limited nature of the time frame, only a few little things for a word or two concerning the specific text of the proposal. I regret that although his Christian faith was important and exemplary to us in the case of St. Laszlo, there is no reference to Christian churches in the proposal, there is no reference to a close relationship with them. We consider this very important. I hope that if this is not in the text, it will be done in practice that Christian churches will be involved in this Memorial Year, and with their support, joint organization and help we will be able to reach as many people as possible. I also consider it very important to address young people. I trust you will be given priority in implementing the practical implementation of the St. László Memorial Year. Or perhaps it would be important, as for every other year of memory, to assign a specific day to this memorial year. We know very well that in the case of the commemorative year of 56 the opening of the 23rd October, the anniversary of the execution of Imre Nagy, 16th June, in the case of the János Arany Memorial Year, was the date of his birth, when many events were commemorated throughout the country. It's worth finding here, too. Overall, we can support this proposal, and we welcome the proposal, despite its delays. Allow me to praise St. László Prohászka Ottokar as a close:. The Hungarian ideal has become a Christian and a saint in László, Christianity has become a national life, the Christian king has become a hero of the nation. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-06-14-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[Cutter Sebestyén reporting.]] I give the floor to Mr Sebestyén, Member of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2017-06-14-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Before such a debate, one will consider the most important virtue he has shown to that historical person. For me and for the Hungarians, I think he also showed me how to be a warrior at the same time as a knight king, who leads the team in a battle in many cases, and also how to be a nation-minded man defending his country, and how to live along Christian values, according to Christian values. I think that the example of Saint László is the best in this, for us Hungarians his example is the most important. He could combine it perfectly. It's no coincidence that we still honor him as a saint to this day. I believe that this was important not only for the given age, but also for the next generation and for the present generation. It can be a standard measure of our own conduct, even at moments when we need to define the limit that we can cross to protect our loved ones, our country or our faith. I think these are the examples that we have to pass on to the growing generation. In the course of the debate of many commemorative years, I have already said and I will take this opportunity to say that it would be the life of St. Laszlo that deserves a great historical adventure film. I think that we should not force young people to follow the example of foreign heroes, because they only get such movies, whether they are American or Roman, or medieval, other European heroes, after a movie experience. I think that it would be the path of St. Laszlo's life that would be worthy of it, that it would be the memorial journey of St. Laszlo's that could take young people in this form and hopefully become one of their role models. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-06-14-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the group of the MSZP, Mr Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament is coming. Here you go.
u2017-06-14-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All the important points that we wanted to make on this issue have already been made by my fellow Member László Kiss, so I will not repeat them. In agreement with him, I would just like to say two additional sentences. One is that, of course, it would have been better if it had not been delayed, not about six months after this step could have been taken, this proposal would have come before the House. The other is that, if it had come before this House, it would have been good to strive in all respects to ensure that the possibility of creating unity could also be stronger on a visceral basis on this issue. I think that this is no longer important in relation to this draft law, this recommendation, but it is important for all of us, for the next period, that the process of preparing legislation is in all respects slightly different or better, in a way that can serve to create these conditions. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-06-14-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr István Szávay, Member of the Parliament, is next. Here you go.
u2017-06-14-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. In the person of Saint László, we can not only honor the creator of the first flowering age of our country, but also a true Central European ruler, who, with his internal and foreign policy, not only strengthened the position of the young Hungarian kingdom, but also made it a great power in Central Europe after just 70 years of Christian statehood. This was served not only by the 1083 holys, but also by the dynastic relationships. The mother of our King László was the Hungarian queen from the Polish House of Piast. His daughter, Red Riding Hood, is the greatest ruler of the Byzantine Komnenos House, II. John Komnénos' wife. Today, he is a highly respected saint of the Orthodox Church and the Greek Catholic Church. But thanks to László's dynastic policy - and I would like to mention this for a few sentences - the acquisition of the Croatian throne and the creation of the Hungarian-Croatian alliance. The Croatian Kingdom had been a respected member of the Christian community of Europe for more than a century and a half. The Croatian prince Tomislav had already received a crown from the Pope in 925. At the same time, the dynasty he founded was extinct in 1091 and our King László announced his throne by means of his brother Ilona Szép - or Jelena Lijepa, as the Croatians respect him - and took over the country with his armies, and entrusted it to his nephew Álmos. The Hungarian-Croatian community could only be consolidated by its successor Kálmán Könyves, who was crowned Croatian king in 1102 in the Sea-White Castle, and who promised to govern Croatia as a separate kingdom according to his own laws, which his successors did. The Croatian and Hungarian states have been inseparable for more than eight centuries, while the Frangepans or Zrinyi of Croatia have been placed on the most beautiful pages of our common history. Unfortunately, Hungarian-Croatian interstate relations are failing today. As vice president of the Hungarian-Croatian Friendship Department of the Interparlamentary Union, which is not very active, I can only hope that the Szent László Memorial Year can help us to settle our common affairs, develop cooperation and strengthen Hungarian-Croatian friendship. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-06-14-18	Thank you very much. Mr István Józsa is coming from the MSZP Group. Here you go. [[11.20]]
u2017-06-14-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it fills all of our hearts with warmth to think of the legacy of our King Saint László, at the heart of which was valor and justice, so that he was able to be able to in the also difficult geopolitical situation in which Hungary's situation has not been fully consolidated after the founding of the state, to make it permanent, and, on the other hand, in the area of justice, that property, property, property, must be protected by legislation and, above all, by validated legislation. Today, when there are rumors that Fidesz potentates cast an eye on certain companies, properties, goods, and make them their own by short notice, a Saint Laszlo year can set an example in the direction of respect for property, respect for others, respect values, and respect for honor, valor, truth, and not even from this platform, something that disturbs people's peace of mind, but represents the truth, valor and legality. I think it's in the spirit of St. Laszlo's year. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-06-14-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] He doesn't want to. I would like to ask Mr Imre Vejkey if, on behalf of the authors, he wishes to respond to what has been said within the remaining timeframe. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: Yes, thank you very much.]] Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-06-14-21	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to express my thanks. Thank you, Mr Árpád Potápi, State Secretary, on behalf of the Government, for the support of my fellow Member, Mr Róbert Simon, on behalf of the Fidesz-KDNP, on behalf of MEP László Kiss, on behalf of the MSZP; here was also a criticism of the consensus. In this regard, I would say - but this was also mentioned by our fellow Member Gergely Farkas - that there was a House Committee meeting, that we requested a derogation from a house rule at the House Committee meeting, and that all parliamentary factions supported the departure from the house rule. In fact, more has happened, because all parliamentary groups, which were not part of this Parliamentary resolution proposal, have come forward with the request to join it. As far as I know, the Jobbik has indeed joined on behalf of Gergely Farkas, and István Szávay, who announced it, as well as the LMP has joined him on behalf of Mr Bernadett Szél, only the MSZP has not joined him, which promised this, and specifically asked for it at that time and there. Thank you very much for the support of Gergely Farkas from Jobbik. On the subject of Mr Sebestyén Szípó's speech: it is a good idea that we should also make a film, and I agree with that suggestion on my part. Our fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, supported him in essence. István Szávay also supported him in his speech. In the end it was said that he hoped that he would also serve to strengthen Hungarian-Croatian relations. I am pleased to inform you that just at the end of last week - not even a week passed - in the town of Pola, Croatia, the K.u.k. At Marinefriedhof Naval Harbor, we knew the heroic death of Hungarian sailors, with a hundred years delay, but to commemorate and pray for them. This just happened on Saturday. It was my fellow Member, István Józsa, who is not in the Chamber, who unfortunately stood out from the line with his comment, because none of the speakers used his speech for daily political purposes, but this was an unworthy case, which is why I would not wish to react separately. Ladies and Gentlemen, We are convinced that in today's rapidly changing world and often challenging traditional values, it is especially important to know our roots and the glorious characters of our history. We believe that Europe and in it the future of Hungarians cannot be imagined without Christianity, and that it is essential for building the future that we have a proper knowledge of our past. Thank you for your support, and I would also like to ask you to support the parliamentary resolution during the vote. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-14-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Next up is the 2011 CXCIX on public service officials. General debate on the bill amending law and other related laws until closure. The government referral is T/155992. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. I'll wait for the Secretary of State to switch, and Minister Nándor Csepreghy will put the microphone on. [[It's happening.]] I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-14-23	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Allow me to explain the substance of the proposal and how we are asking for this House's support. The bill includes, on the one hand, proposals for amendments initiated and prepared by the Hungarian Governmental Ministry, and, on the other hand, proposals for amendments which are justified on the basis of the results of the 2016 public service audit and, on the other hand, amendments that are necessary on the basis of feedback from law enforcement. These are content, codification and technical clarifications. The purpose of the amendment to the law before you is to ensure the consistency of the provisions of the Act on Public Service Officers concerning the Faculty of the Hungarian Government and the Act on State Officials and the Law on the Service of the Professional Staff of law enforcement bodies. Dear House, One of the backbones of the submitted bill is the amendment of the name of the Hungarian Governmental Officials Faculty. The terminology clarification became necessary because, with the entry into force of the Law on State Officials on 1 July 2016, in addition to government officials, public officials became members of the faculty, so it is important that the name of the faculty also represent the public officials forming a significant part of the company and express the unity of the professional order of government officials and state officials. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, There is another reason for the need to amend the law on public service officials, and this is the restoration of the regulatory parallel between the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Police Faculty as professional public bodies. In terms of the status of the two public bodies and their tasks, the regulation derives from the same government objectives and rests on a uniform basis, but there have been a number of differences in the initial parallel regulation of public bodies over the years since their establishment. One of the important stages of this is the entry into force of the Law on the Service of Professional Staff of law enforcement bodies on 1 July 2015 which transformed the tasks of public law enforcement bodies without any trade union character. Similarly to the tasks of the Hungarian Faculty of Governmental Officials, the tasks of the Hungarian Faculty of Law and Orders are mainly related to the proposal and opinion on government service law, ethical procedures, the functioning of professional public bodies, public service development, and further training and examination systems. Therefore, the tasks of the Ministry of Government of Hungary, as defined in the Act on Public Service Officers, require the cleaning of profiles, and both the definition of the faculty and the listing of its tasks should reflect the nature of the professional representation. Dear Parliament, Finally, the other amendments contained in the bill are amendments of a content, codification and technical nature necessary on the basis of the results of the public service audit for 2016 and the feedback from the law enforcement authorities. Thank you, Mr. President, for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-14-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr László Salacz. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman. [[11.30]]
u2017-06-14-25	Mr President, Dear House, The bill before us is supported by the Group of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association, given that the intention to amend was initiated by the Hungarian Government Officials Faculty, referring to the results of the 2016 public service audit. As a result, the government also considered it justified to submit the bill. In order to achieve the legal harmonisation of the provisions of the Public Service Officers Act concerning the Faculty of Hungarian Government officials, the Law on State Officials and the Law on the service relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies. I listened attentively to the Minister of State's exposé, which contained all the amendments and all the directions that would be amended on the basis of the not-so-managed bill before us, and I will therefore only address a few important points. On the basis of this bill, the legislative objective of setting up the MKK is to establish a framework for a uniform professional working order for government officials employed in the public administration and to establish conditions for the operation of the professional order. The work of government officials and state officials employed in the State Organisation and in public administration carries values and values with credible sacrifice, high-quality work. Government officials and public officials work, like other activities, is a profession, an activity undertaken to enforce the common good. Accordingly, belonging to the faculty also means belonging to a professional order. In this spirit, the primary task of the faculty is to create a system of professional ethics, promote the enforcement of rights and obligations related to the pursuit of the profession, and provide its members with welfare, social and other preferential services. The primary objective of the establishment of the Faculty of Government officials of Hungary was to establish a common, value-based uniform working order, which contributes to the strengthening of civic confidence in the functioning of the public administration. I would like to draw attention to some amendments. The proposal adds a new paragraph to the KKtv., which clarifies how, in the event of the dismissal of the government official, the amount of the salary due for the discharge period, the severance payment and the amount of other payments will be determined. In the case of the taking of an oath, the application also sets out the correction, given that it is difficult in practice to do so in any case before the holder of the employer's powers, it is therefore appropriate to establish the possibility of delegation and to provide technical clarification by clarifying the training conditions necessary for the appointment of a manager. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, On this basis, I believe that the legislation, which is essentially of a professional nature and expressly enjoys the support of the Hungarian Government's Faculty of Officials, is necessary in order to ensure consistency between the legislative proposals. I therefore ask you to accept this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-14-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Before I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament, I ask Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the notary of the Parliament, to correct her card, because I have a problem with her feedback. Thank you very much. Mr Nándor Gúr, notary of the Parliament, from the group of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2017-06-14-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, At a time when public service officials are involved in any sense between the walls of the Parliament, there is nothing else to say in the first sentence except that, regardless of political affiliation, people who carry out public service activities live their daily lives as public service officials have a decisive influence on everyday life. Therefore, any legislative change or amendment must be based on a very careful basis, since it does not matter what effect these changes have on these officials. I do not wish to bring all the questions into the discussion of this draft law, but if we are talking about civil servants, government officials, people working in the public sector, it is worth looking at other types of issues besides those that the draft law contains. I'll give you some of these thoughts in the middle of what I have to say. The Secretary of State began his introductory thinking by saying that the feedback on the application of the law was also the basis for what was reflected in this draft law. I do not want to look into this, but it is likely that Members of Parliament should know much more about this, too, so that they can reach a similar position, as the Secretary of State expressed in his introductory thoughts the why, the reason for the amendment of the law. In addition to what has been mentioned, the bill also affects the draft law on public officials and on the service relationship of professional staff concerning law enforcement bodies, in addition to public service officials, it also affects the 2010 National Tax and Customs Office Act. I do not wish to deal with the explanations set out in the law, as it has been read by all my fellow Members, but I would like to make some comments, if not for other reasons, to reflect on whether, in all respects, the bill is in order. According to the bill, the Faculty of Government officials of Hungary, hereinafter referred to as the MKK, loses, you can say with a calm spirit, yes, loses the character of the professional representative body and its representation function. In the future, I could put it in a quotation mark, or use it without it, only its professional public body character will remain, or it will function as such. This means that another, I can say, reduction of employee rights will result in this story. This is happening right now in the public sector. It is no coincidence, since the MKK, the Hungarian Government's Faculty, has lost the opportunity to represent its members in the proceedings before the court or other authority in matters related to or related to the exercise of the office of government official, as well as in terms of general representation, as well as in terms of government service. It's basically going down. I find it intriguing to see if this is okay, whether it is okay, whether it is for the purpose that we generally consider important in the world of work, in terms of maintaining peace of work or in terms of the application of individual rights. It does not reassure me, it does not satisfy me that, according to the proposal, the MKK receives, in some sense, other rights, in fact, that it may be a member of the State Officials' Training College. The things we are talking about in this regard do not replace each other. If we look at the specific situation that affects the government official's workplace, personal affairs at his workplace, for example, as a result of a restructuring or a transfer to another public administration, then we are confronted with the fact that if the government official cannot accept this, there are obviously tangible consequences. These consequences also provide, in a sense, a guarantee background, such as the fact that, in the event of dismissal, the post prior to the change of appointment, the remuneration, income and remuneration conditions attached to the place of work are those under which the official may practically enter the field of departure. [[11.40]] But besides all that, I think there are some things that are at least question-signed. I give you an example, Mr Secretary: fixed-term employment contracts, fixed-term government service. Under the current rules, a fixed-term government service may be established, of course, if the law does not provide otherwise or otherwise for the replacement of permanently absent government officials or for this purpose or for the performance of tasks which may occasionally be necessary, or in the case of permanent external service. The maximum duration shall be five years. A five-year term is a relatively long maturity. In the event of termination of this type of relationship, if the government official resigns from his mandate, the period of resignation shall not be longer than two months in general. If you are in a situation where this cancellation period would pass beyond the five-year term, quoted in quotes, then you will obviously be contained in this five-year fixed-term period. For the future, this bill says that a fixed-term government service for long-term external service can be terminated with effect from 60 days. In this case, it may actually be a question of whether or not this will apply to the termination of the relationship initiated by the employer. If so, it will also apply to the termination of the employment relationship by the employer, then this will have adverse consequences for the employee compared to the current legislation. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you something, but I'm just not sure you're hearing my question right now, because you're consulting. [[Nándor Csepreghy consults with Sándor Farkas.]] If that's the way I'm asking. I'd like you to answer that. If the Secretary of State has not heard my question, then I will repeat it again, because I see that because of other activities he may not have been able to share his attention in all respects, but if I can help you again, I would like you to answer the question: if the employment and termination of employment by the employer is caused, will the 60-day period of notice still apply. The salary of managers is known through the regulation of other laws, we know that it is practically linked to the number of people and many others, but not only the salary of managers, but also the number of managers is an interesting and important issue. As far as the number of executive appointments is concerned, we are well aware that at present, for example, a figure that is correct... - at a joint municipal office providing a group of settlements of more than five thousand inhabitants, I think it may be a notary and a sub-notary who will be appointed. Now I read or have trained myself about the bill that this proposal could actually be an extension. This can be taken positively and negatively; I hope that it is not the negative scenario that can prevail, i.e. that they think that they are creating a situation for the appointment of some people that then obliges these people to be faithful in a sense. It seems to be a formal matter, but in the context of the draft law, it also recalls that in the future, the practitioner of the employer's right does not have to participate directly in the public service oath. I understand, I am not sure that this is necessarily necessary in any case, but I would also add that the question of the symbolic nature of the public service oath does not make it impossible, but is undermined by this measure. What I still think is very important and which I would like to say is: can you consider it forms - I ask the Secretary of State - the change that concerns the benchmarking of the mayor's salary in 2017 as a salary for the State Secretary, was previously the assistant State Secretary's salary, or, in addition to the forms, a return with the contents of it. What caused me to have a fundamental problem when reading and analysing the bill was that the bill virtually abolishes the right of the head of district or capital district offices to propose a diversion of basic salary for government officials of the district or district office. I cannot interpret this other way than that the right of a direct leader to be able to pay his own subordinates in connection with his work will cease to exist, so that he can influence the remuneration in this sense. There is virtually a kind of centralisation, and the centralised basic salary hijacking is not necessarily and not justified or certainly based on actual performance in the future. This, in my personal opinion, is basically interpreted as a negative decision for the working man. My second question is, in fact, that in the case of employees in the metropolitan county government offices, the salary supplement will be abolished. This covered 35% of their basic salary for government officials with tertiary education and 15% of their basic salary for those with secondary education. I know what changes have been made to the implementation of career models, but I believe that this decision will be detrimental to employees even if a separate career model has been introduced by the government in respect of those working in the capital and government offices before, as I said, on behalf of the government. In fact, the concerns are expressed or based on the fact that, as I said, the Faculty of Governmental Officials of Hungary loses its professional representative body character, its representation function, how and how this 60-day interval for the termination of a 60-day relationship for long-term external service concerns and what has been formulated in relation to the withdrawal of the salary supplement. And as a last sentence, I would like to say once again that the restriction and withdrawal of the permissions which undermine the right of the district or the heads of the metropolitan district office - these questions should be opened a little bit more, Mr Secretary, so that if there is something that we may not be able to see well in reading the bill, then help us with it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I will finish, Mr President; and if there is truth in everything we say, then think about making the necessary corrections before the adoption of the law. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-06-14-28	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Member of the Parliament. Here you go. [[11.50]]
u2017-06-14-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In the bill, as has been said here, there is a great deal of clarification and technical modification, which is largely related to the change of name. Obviously, we can support these without any obstacles. Then there are changes to the content, which already raise several question marks. In the foregoing, my fellow Member Gur listed this in a very nice and specific way. In our understanding, too, the loss of interest in the MKK, i.e. that it will no longer be able to represent the interests of its members before a court or before another authority, or that it will generally not have the right to represent the interests of this organisation. But there is also no doubt that the definition of the remuneration supplement, which will now no longer refer to the metropolitan and county government offices, raises more questions. In this context, we will be submitting amendments and we would like to partially include them and, in part, to transform them in the bill in some way. At the same time, I have to say that it is just so that I do not repeat the words before me, by line, that many nice words have been said here in this debate about civil servants and government officials, what a great profession they are doing and that they are working to enforce the common good. These nice words must be very helpful to them, and I can only confirm that myself, but overall, I must say that this is not what these people are waiting for, or are not just waiting for. What are you waiting for? Let me mention two or three points. The first was one of the big slaps that came from the government the other day, namely that in the bill setting up the budget, which was a salad law, there was at the end a small point hidden in the back, which was that county government officials or ministerial staff would not be extended from the next year to the payment classification for state officials. This affects 30-40,000 people, and 30-40,000 people will not get it, although they were promised a salary increase of about 25-30 percent on average. But this amount is not inexorable, it could be paid. Just to mention a close-to-body example of how much this would cost: if I took 4 billion per room to move to the Prime Minister's Office Castle, it would be possible to resolve this issue in a total of 4 rooms. I think these people deserve it. On several occasions, I asked Mr Banai, Secretary of State responsible for the budget, both in front of the House, in the general debate and in the debate on the proposal for a summary amendment, why he did not do so, who gave him the order that the general government slogan on these people should not apply to them next year. But it's okay, Mr. Secretary, from 2018, the people working in county government offices and the people working in the ministry will be working for us, and I can already tell them, as a promise, that we will increase their salary. This amendment will be removed from the basis of the budget and will be covered by the draft law on public officials from 2018. Secondly, what these people were also looking forward to is raising the civil servant's salary fund. They've been waiting for him for ten years. In this regard, since I have been a Member of Jobbik, I have now submitted to the Finance Act for the seventh year that this salary base must be raised, because we know that it has been based on the shameful IMF pact that neither the old-age pension minimum nor the civil servant's wage bill nor the civil servant's salary fund can change or change. However, these amounts have already fallen significantly from their value, and their salaries, government officials and civil servants' salaries are also linked to this fund. These people deserve it, because, as has been said here by my fellow Member Salacz, they really work for the common good, in many cases in unworthy circumstances, yet diligently, with honor, integrity, competence, dedication, but just by the government they do not get the proper attention they would otherwise have. Therefore, a lot of people are changing careers, emigrating, using skills that are no longer used, so the state loses all the Hungarian people, which is very much needed and cannot be replaced, because people are not coming from the competition sphere. It would be good for them to arrive, but no one will arrive, for such a salary would be foolish for anyone to take such a difficult and responsible job; in any case, this expertise cannot be found elsewhere. Therefore, I think that the decision made in this House yesterday, that this salary base will not rise next year, is extremely unworthy. And let me add one more thing: that anyone who does not take care of his own house can take care of the wider community, let us say, of the people of the whole country. The area of our house in this case is the Office of Parliament. In this House, too, those who work here are very much civil servants or are classified as civil servants. There was a bill last December that would have paid these people, these workers. They've been waiting for him for a very long time, they deserve it, and despite the fact that the government submitted it, and even though we can see how many people we can talk about - well, not as much as they work at the Rogán Ministry, let's say, especially not compared to the wage, but I'm putting it in parentheses now - so, compared to the size of the amount, the government seemed unworthy and backed out of its own proposal. Recently, I asked your esteemed boss, Minister Lazarus, when these people's wages would be settled. The answer to this has come today that there is currently no such proposal before this House, and I am proposing it. Now, I will do so, but it will also be submitted in writing to the House to initiate, to initiate, if we are already dealing with this bill, which could be put into it - it is a bit over-expansive, because this part is not opened in this bill, which is now here in this House, but it could be done - so we will initiate that the wages of those who work here are finally raised after many years, and are now entitled to pay more or at least a more worthy wage. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-14-30	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Here comes the speeches of the Members. Congressman Nándor Gúr asked for the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-06-14-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to make two brief additions. One: I will only reaffirm and ask the Secretary of State that it would be good to discuss in a debate why the right of the leaders of the district and metropolitan district offices to abolish the right that they cannot do the question of the diversion of basic salary in respect of government officials who are employed by themselves, so that they have no direct influence on remuneration, even though they are those who see clearly and clearly the nature of the work and other things. Why is this question centralized? The other thing that Mrs Loránt Hegedűs spoke about is that we have been pushing for a very long time that nonsense is unacceptable, that in the period of the second and third Orbán administration, the eighth year has been practically the civil servant's salary of HUF 38 650, and a single penny has not changed. Unparalleled! Since the moment of the change of regime, there has not been a government cycle, even during the first Orbán government, I would like to add that the civil servant's salary fund, not the current HUF 38 650, would not have changed in that period. It is now unparalleled in terms of two cycles, which can be felt, felt, felt and completely clear that it has not changed, changed or changed in 2018 either. Secretary of State, why not? Thank you very much. [[12.00]]
u2017-06-14-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2017-06-14-33	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I thank the Fidesz faction for its support and I would like to reply in detail to Mr Gúr and to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs. Mr Gúr's suggestion that, when we talk about public service officials, we can speak only in the language of respect, because they have a significant impact on the events in the country. I completely agree. This is true for the members of the Parliament and for everyone who works in this country and adds something to the common prosperity. That there are no other issues to discuss in this debate? House rules dictate the content of what kind of dispute. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] But to get to the specifics you asked me about. On the one hand, he asked for the 60-day notice period in the case of fixed employment. This has not been settled so far, the initiative would also like to settle in the event of a firm employment relationship. Thus, the 60-day rule will also be stated in the case of a firm employment relationship, which has so far been a general wording and will be specifically stated in this situation. I liked to ask you about the oath, who should be present exactly. This is a practical proposal, but we are open to discussing it. However, it is the government's position in principle on this matter that the oath is essentially binding on the person who took the oath, regardless of who it is doing it to. But it may be symbolically important to determine who is doing this before, so I think that at the next stage it can be discussed whether it is worth touching it, or whether this may result, if we make the attendance circle mandatory, if this does not slow down the processes. I think we're open on this, too, and that can be discussed. The other question that Mr President has asked is the question of hijacking, which is who has the right to do so. The rule is that the employee who has an employment relationship with him... - so the person who employs him can give him a hijack, take advantage of the possibility provided by the law. Of course, that doesn't mean that your direct boss, who you work for, can't interfere. But the employer's relationship is not between him and his direct boss, so it's regulated. However, in the case of the employer's employer's boss, he has an obligation to consult with the direct boss, as he can give a professional opinion on the employee's work, morale, attitude towards work, which may or may not be worthy of being hijacked, or if it is to be touched in any way. I think there are points here that are worth discussing during the Commission debate. Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs asked the question of representation, which is also the case with Mr Gúr. Here it is said that the experience so far and, if this is not the case, it is not correct to believe that this option has practically not been used in terms of general representation. Basically, the question of individual representation was not dealt with by the faculty itself. This may be worth discussing, but the exit is due to the fact that it has been unused so far. It's a matter of payroll. Here, on the one hand, I would like to confirm what the Minister has said to you, but let me say that, since this has come into such a political dimension, which also concerns the elections of 2018, every party here will have the opportunity, whether to sit in the walls of Parliament or sit outside it, to sit in here and promise the various layers of voters. However, if there is a government that, I think, can put real results in terms of public administration on the table, on the basis of which you can ask for an extension of that trust, this is exactly the government. So far, we have been guided by the principle of starting the wage arrangement of government officials, where this may not have happened retroactively for decades, in the case of colleagues working in most of the district offices and government windows that have had customer relations. In the case of secondary graduates, 50 percent and 30 percent and 40 percent wage arrangements were carried out for tertiary and general administrators. We have touched on the wage arrangement of areas where they do not perform this type of tasks, but they carry out a public service in the field of health, education and social care, and it is worth having a debate on this, where appropriate, which we are open to in particular during the debate on this proposal. Let's sit down and check this out. The government can support only one type of proposal, which is the fundamental principle of the Hungarian economy, and on a loan basis this government will not implement wage development. We are open to any proposal that takes account of the country's capacity to deliver any wage proposals. Mr President, thank you very much for your patience.
u2017-06-14-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 2003 III. on the exploration of the secret service activities of the past system and the establishment of the Historical Archives of the State Security Services a joint debate on the amendment of laws and certain related laws in an exceptional procedure. The submission submitted by Gergely Gulyás, Imre Vas and Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz and Imre Vejkey, representatives of KDNP T/15844. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I would like to give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the rapporteur on the agenda, for the first time in the debate. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-06-14-35	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The two great enemies of communism are reality and truth. He's never been able to fight these things anywhere, and he can't fight them, and he's always capitulating in front of them. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That's how the writer István Nemere put it. Ladies and Gentlemen, For the sake of this reality and the fullness of truth, Article U) of the Fundamental Law of Hungary states that the Committee of National Remembrance reveals the power function of the Communist dictatorship, the role of the persons and organizations possessing communist power, and publishes the results of its activities in a comprehensive report and further documents. One of the milestones of the brief history of the National Remembrance Committee so far can be the report published jointly with the Historical Archives of the State Security Services, which has been carried out to investigate the data files on magnetic tape of state security bodies prior to 1990. According to the communist state security definition, the network is a group of secret supporters of state security agencies, whose members, under the leadership and direction of state security bodies, are involved in the acquisition of information necessary to strengthen the protection of the Hungarian People's Republic, the implementation of secret operational measures, the detection, prevention and interruption of the minework of the external and internal enemies. Ladies and Gentlemen, It would be difficult to overestimate the role of this tool in the operational work of state security at its age, since all age regulations consider the employment of network persons working secretly and organisationally with State security as the main tool of the Agency's provisions on the principles of network work issued by Béla Biszku. It cannot therefore be debated that the communist dictatorship is intended to understand the functioning of its power in order to ensure, as far as possible, the acquisition of the fullest possible knowledge of the State Security Network. All along, the communist state security agencies have attached great importance to the management of operational and network records and to the mass of information that can be organised and extracted. On several occasions, the Communist Party and the Home Affairs Management have noticed the manual inability to handle the data of people and collaborators registered in bulk in the 1950s and the impossibility of carrying out more complex research tasks. For a long time, however, this only constituted a review of the repetition of the file-like records and resulted in the deletion of data deemed unnecessary. [[12.10]] The continued increase in registration and reporting needs has, as appropriate, required that the technical development opportunities offered be put at the service of state security as soon as possible. The first steps of this task were taken as early as 1958 when the first mechanized data processing system was introduced in the field of state security cipher technology in the then BM 12th class. Ladies and Gentlemen, After the change of regime, for the sake of magnetic tapes, the first public awareness was drawn to the public by the document-finding committee established in 1995 and then the report of the expert committee set up in 2007 to assess the performance of State security documents summarized the knowledge of the computer registration systems of the state security of the dictatorship. After that, in 2009, the so-called first magnetic tape committee was established, which saved the data files found on the tapes with the help of IT experts and made them partially readable after the restoration with the current computer systems. The second magnetic tape committee was able to print on paper the so-called H, or network repository, of the files saved. However, given the fact that the secret classification of data recorded on magnetic tapes has so far been maintained for an in-depth examination, their content analysis could not have been carried out earlier. Ladies and Gentlemen, In order to remedy this problem, the National Assembly is the 2013 CCXLI. by law, set up the National Remembrance Committee, the members of which were also authorised to obtain classified information. Under this legal authority, the Committee has turned to the Minister of Interior for the scientific exploration of the data on magnetic tapes of state security services operating before 1990 in the management of the Constitutional Protection Office. In the summer of 2015, a joint working group was formed from the members of the NEB, as well as from the staff of the Historical Archives of the State Security Services. The Working Group started the scientific processing of magnetic tapes in the Constitutional Protection Office in September 2015, on a working schedule agreed with the Ministry of Interior. During the exploratory work, the Committee sought to assess the structure, completeness and historical value of the data content recorded on magnetic tapes, as well as to identify new information other than that recorded on tapes in scientific research. The report already quoted also proposed the future treatment of magnetic tapes of former state security. The report of the National Remembrance Committee states that the data mass of the register requires continuous review work, for which it proposes that the records with the sign "G" and "H" should be delivered to the Historical Archives within a short period of time. Information compensation is all the more effective if the magnetic tapes of former state security are transferred to the Historical Archives of the State Security Services. Government 1187/2017. In the context of the submission of these secret service media to the archives, it decided that the classified information contained on these media should be reviewed in the archives by 30 June 2018. Ladies and Gentlemen, However, in order to review magnetic tapes in the archives, it is necessary to create the legal conditions, i.e. to allow the receipt of classified information. The transfer is also justified by the fact that some of the data are no longer held by the archives on a traditional paper carrier. Thus, the uniform legal treatment of data can be achieved so that the information compensation of victims and descendants of the former communist regime can be more complete and effective. At the same time, it is appropriate to operate the documents in one place in the long term, with the development of an institution that has worked only as a national security archives. This could therefore ensure a uniform procedure in addition to information compensation in the case of research. The 2003 III. on the exploration of the secret service activities of the past system and the establishment of the Historical Archives of the State Security Services. Act T/15844 amending Act T/1584 and certain related laws. The legislative proposal No.3 fully meets the stated objectives. The bill establishes the necessary conditions for the transfer to the Historical Archives of the State Security Services of permanent documents containing the classified information generated by the national security services established after the regime change. It is also appropriate that, taking into account decades of professional experience in the Historical Archives of the State Security Services, the management of State Security Documents and the archives of the national security services established after 14 February 1990 should also have jurisdiction or collection circles, i.e. a state archives of national security and national security documents. Therefore, in order for the Archives to become solely responsible for the administration of public archives of State Security and National Security Documents, it is necessary to refer the handling of documents relating to national security to the Historical Archives of the State Security Services. Our soon-to-be V4 Presidency is a good opportunity to continue the exchange of experiences between the Visegrád countries in this area as well. Since the establishment of the institution in Prague, which manages the documents of the former Czechoslovak state security bodies, it is currently using such databases in providing information compensation, but there are also large amounts of such data in the National Memory Institute in Poland, the IPN. For example, the latter institution holds databases of former Polish secret services on a total of 655 magnetic tapes. According to Solzhenicin, the Communist does not know shame, human dignity, and has no idea what Christian ethics calls conscience. Our conscience, on the other hand, dictates that we follow the example of the countries of the V4 regarding the management of the database of the communist dictatorship network. That is why I ask this House, my fellow Members, to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-14-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Péter Hoppál, Secretary of State, who wishes to speak on behalf of the Government within the framework of this agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-06-14-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The protection, continuous improvement and wider access to the archives of the data subjects guaranteeing the continued performance of public tasks, public interest data and the freedom of scientific research, knowledge of the activities of the State Security Services of the past system and information compensation of victims and related rights to information self-determination, is a public task, which requires public engagement. [[12.20]] The Government agreed in its decision on the transfer of secret service media to the Historical Archives of the State Security Services and on the implementation of certain tasks related to the scientific processing of the content of data recorded on these media on classified information generated during the operation of the State Security Services of the Party State system which existed before 1990, on so-called secret service punch cards, magnetic tapes and electronic media, on the need for scientific and thorough processing of the content of data and the timely implementation of the tasks arising from this objective. Paragraph 1 (a) of the Government Decision essentially designates two tasks in relation to the transfer to the Historical Archives of the State Security Services of the Ministry of the Interior of the Hungarian People's Republic. On the one hand, the implementation of the amendments to the legislation necessary for the transfer, which will start with the present initiative, and on the other hand, the creation of the necessary infrastructure conditions for the receipt of documents - punch cards, magnetic tapes, electronic media - and the presentation of the budgetary impact necessary for the performance of the new task at the ÁBTL. In order to implement the latter, the second issue and task, the Minister of Human Resources has prepared a proposal for the Government. With the aim set, documents of public interest, which are always of interest to citizens, generated during the operation of the state security services of the pre-1990 party state system, will be properly placed. The proposals on the State Security Network, which plays a key role in obtaining information, are still one of the cornerstones of the basic social and political issues. Based on the principle of transparency, the public requires access to credible information for all citizens. Certain laws related to this legislative proposal will also need to be amended in the near future to ensure that the government and society objectives set are met. With the adoption of this bill, the ÁBTL will become the State Archives of State Security and National Security in the light of the special knowledge base, decades of internship and competence. So, from a professional point of view of our ministry's public collections, we see that, with the extension of the assembly circle and the aforementioned and listed state security documents and information stored on various media, as well as information on national security, civil and military security after 1990, it is therefore possible to manage it jointly after the entry into force of the bill. I believe that the wide-ranging social need to facilitate partly public access to documents and data on various media generated in this way and, in part, knowledge by researchers, is indeed a very significant step forward towards both the opposition and the required transparency on the government side. Thus, the government fully supports the proposal. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-06-14-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur for the Legislative Committee.
u2017-06-14-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee on 13 June 2017 is subject to the provisions of house regulations 61. On the basis of Article 4 of the Act, the Court of Justice held an exceptional procedure under Article III of 2003 on the exploration of the activities of the former regime and the establishment of the Historical Archives of the State Security Services. Act T/15844 amending Act T/1584 and certain related laws. The Committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 27 votes in favour and 6 abstentions, thus without voting against. The summarised amendment contains the legislative committee's own initiative, which contains three points of legal technical specification and, in one case, language positioning. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill submitted serves a better understanding and understanding of the mechanism of the communist dictatorship, and I therefore ask for your support. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-06-14-40	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to inform you that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent representatives have 8 minutes in total. In the first round of speeches, the key speakers will present the views of the political groups. I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-06-14-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, When we read the title of this proposal, of this law, we began to rejoice, because many times the proposal has been submitted to this House on a similar subject. Typically, the LMP faction submitted this topic 12 times, thirteen times... [[Sallai R. Benedek shows four.]] Excuse me, 14 times, this is my fellow Member. We have always supported the inclusion of this proposal in the series, and we have tabled a proposal with this content. Unfortunately, the Parliament didn't include that in a series of subjects either. He did not include it in a series of articles, despite the fact that the arguments put forward by the author of the proposal, my fellow Member Vejkey and Mr Hoppál, were just as valid for the many proposals that lie before this House as they are now. In fact, I can say that they were even more so, because there was always a much more complex package of proposals in front of this House than what we are seeing here. And this is my first problem with the proposal. Congressman Vejkey told us to follow the V4s. I think that this is true, and it is indeed justified, and even justified, nearly 30 years ago, so that this would happen - unfortunately this did not happen - but it may not be entirely too late. It has one benefit, obviously, who will be able to process these information and documents in a more objective way, looking further away. But speaking of following the V4s, I think that if we look at the regulations there, they are significantly broader and allow research to be done in a much wider range than the Hungarian laws, even if we accept this proposal otherwise. One of the things that disappointed me is that it's really just magnetic tapes and they're regulated by the law. We could also say that this is more than nothing, so let us support this, but unfortunately there is another problem with the proposal before us. One of them, and I would ask the author, is why, after the expiry of the encryption period, all the documents had to be forwarded to the archives under the law in force. Now, in my view, it is an important step backwards from this point of view that this will no longer be a general obligation for the services on the basis of certain administrative arguments and rules. Perhaps to be more precise, the general obligation remains, but this rule allows a way out of this, and I would like to know why. If this system worked so far, it worked well, and there was no problem, then why do we have to step back? Why shouldn't the documents for which the encryption period expires be sent to the archives without delay, automatically and in a non-exceptional manner? This is one of the major problems, which is why we are asking a question here in Parliament about the proposal. [[12.30]] The other thing is that while LMP's proposal and our proposals were essentially the document, in the case of illegally held documents, they would have persecuted the owner of the document, perhaps even the LMP's proposal would have imposed certain sanctions on him, in fact, you are not punishing the document illegally possessor or not taxing it, but you are seeking to limit the use of the document. That's what's completely incomprehensible to me. We agree that these documents cannot be collected at home for stock, let us say, perhaps with an ulterior motive that will allow certain people to be blackmailed later on - let us be frank! We agree with that, it's true. They need to be made public. But if someone has such a document, which, in any case, was legally brought to them, or accidentally came to them, let's say they inherited a lot of things, and these documents also came to him, he didn't look at it, he didn't turn it in. Then these documents will become useless? Because according to the current law, that's what I see under the current law. In short, these documents cannot be used in court. Nor will the pro-government representatives be angry if, when such a proposal is presented to us, a man is living with a certain suspicion of why it was necessary to bring this to the House in an exceptional procedure. Why wasn't this available, say, in September, or why couldn't this be brought in a month earlier? This is not a proposal that reacts quickly to a sudden social problem and there is an exceptional procedure, but a proposal that could have been put before Parliament at any time since 27 years; it has just come here. And then, of course, the man began to research in his mind, and the goodwill subsides a little bit as to what the cause might be. There is a lawsuit in progress that has been initiated or continued by a non-member, but our fellow municipal representative, against your former Member of Parliament. I am referring to Mr László Varga KDNP, where the MSZP representative claimed that the former Member of Parliament has an agent history. Here in this trial, there was a first-rate verdict. The parties here claimed in the lawsuit, at least one of them, that there was evidence that this KDNP representative was a former agent. The second degree of this trial hasn't taken place yet. I don't know when it's scheduled. But I guess it won't be long. And then there is a rule here that has not been part of the Hungarian legal system so far, that in court proceedings documents that are quasi-legal, so they do not come from the archives, cannot be used. I think that when you connect these two things, at least you have strong bad feelings. Because I do not want to believe that this was so urgent because I would like to prevent the entry into force of the second-degree procedure, where the judge may decide that these documents may be used. I don't know if that's true, but I do know that the two things are running parallel again, and frankly, I don't like it. The third, which is a general criticism - and this does not relate to this law, of course, but, if we are talking about this issue, it is worth putting on the table here too - is that I have basically a problem that they are not creating the full research capacity here, which, by the way, Mr Secretary of State has said is that it is good for these documents to be researched as widely as possible. That's what I think. But today, technically, the National Remembrance Committee has a privilege of processing and searching these documents. And I think that when people talk about science and the scientific perception and processing of a historical era, arguments need to be opposed, then it should be possible for every researcher who has experience in the subject to have the opportunity to get to know them and to decide in the scientific debates what the real nuances of truth or truth were. If there is an anointed organization for this, which is the NEB, then I think that this cannot prevail. It is precisely on this subject that you have a great sentence for Ferenc Deák, and I would like to quote this:. In scientific debates, the truth can be decisive, not the person, not the authority, but the truth. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That's what can't happen today. Because the NEB can research it, and no one else can research it, although it would be in the interest to achieve it as widely as possible, as Mr. Secretary of State has said. I understand, and I even agree with him, that this requires a certain responsibility and knowledge. But determining such a wider circle would be relatively simple. Just to give you an example, and, of course, this can be expanded, narrowed down, otherwise defined, but if we say that you should have the right to look into these documents as an instructor-student in the status of a technical university, then I think that there is a certain responsibility and a certain professional competence. The specialized university, so top-level research facility, and the researcher of it not only as a proxy, but also, let's say, as a state-of-the-art researcher. This could be expanded without further ado. I believe that while we are talking here on this subject, we do not underestimate your knowledge and skills as members of the National Remembrance Committee, but I think you are at least as prepared on this subject as, say, researcher Tibor Czinner, who has written great books, such as a very detailed, excellent book on the Rajk trial. So there are also researchers in Hungary who should be able to learn about these documents. These proposals - and I said so because I would like to compare them with the proposals that we have put forward and the proposals that LMP have put forward - would have created this opportunity, full publicity. That's what I need from this law. I don't know and I don't understand why we had to limit the scope of this law to this circle, why we couldn't go a little further than that. And I would like to repeat once again that I do not understand that one: why will it not be possible to use the document in proceedings if it is not legally with someone? So in Hungarian, I am punishing the document - citing it - not the document holder who illegally owns it, because there can be even a criminal penalty - I think that would be enough -; and the other question is, if it has worked well so far, that these documents had to be handed over and there was no exception, then why should this exception be created now? These are two concerns that make this bill difficult for us, at least in the present situation and without explanations. However, in view of its importance, tomorrow's presidency and its faction will take a stand on this, of course, but I would like to make it clear already in the debate that there may be such reasons for a possible abstention or rejection, and it is certainly not that we do not want the publicity of these documents, as we have already made virtually clear in the course of many votes. So I look forward to your reply, perhaps, to the Secretary of State or to the rapporteur, on these points, because the subject is important and we would like a proposal that we can support. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-14-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Szávay, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-06-14-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Before I say anything, I would like to say and, for our part, to the rapporteur, in particular, that the two questions that my fellow Member Bárándy has asked here in terms of the transfer or use of documents, we would also be very curious about the answers to them. I would be very grateful if, as rapporteur, Mr Vejkey would even now respond to them or at least promise to lift this. [[12.40]] These are indeed two issues that are rather disturbing about a proposal that could otherwise be dealt with with with good intentions, because even if it does not mean as much progress in facing the past as Jobbik did, and we have come to the point that the left-wing opposition has been pushing for you for years, there are at least a few positive changes that we can obviously vote yes or yes for. From the outset, Jobbik has been pushing for the full publicity of the state security past, and over the past years we have consistently supported any proposal that has brought us closer to this, always saying our criticisms that we continue to see and, of course, we see that you do not aim to fully face the past, you do not aim to finally get a clear picture of who the guilty people in the past system were, who the perpetrators were, who were responsible for destroying families, breaking lives, who cooperated in how and in what way with state security. We have heard from you countless times the argument, which always ends and always has the essence of the fact that for you, the personal rights of sinners are always more important than those of the victims, saying that there is a possibility of error. Obviously, it is an important step that the secret service magnetic tapes of the period prior to the regime change are transferred to the Historical Archives of the State Security Services. This will certainly simplify research and make things easier for the Jobbik government, as it will be much easier to publish all the documents relating to this at once and with a law or a regulation that you are still unwilling to publish. Obviously, we can also support the direction in which the Historical Archives of the State Security Services should become a professional archives of state and national security, so that it also has competence in the archives of the national security services that have been established after the change of regime. In this case, however, we would like to draw attention to the fact that in this case it is no longer appropriate if the institution continues to operate under that name, i.e. the Historical Archives of State Security Services. That's something to think about. Therefore, according to the above, we can vote in favour of this proposal because we see progress in it, but I would like to emphasise once again and for all that we are asking for answers to the two questions that my fellow Member has raised. Congressman Vejkey has said a number of things that I would have said to myself, but I will now respond to you. Now I don't want to waste too many words on the fact that the quote you quoted from Solzhenicin has made quite a career in the press over the past few weeks when Szilárd Németh has spoken about it, and it's pretty clear that this quote, although it sounds very good, is not likely to be related to Solzhenicin, so it may be worth avoiding any further citations. But more importantly, Congressman Vejkey referred to two things that I wouldn't have done if I were you. One of them is Béla Biszku, in what context it doesn't matter. The fact that Béla Bisku was able to leave, in his belief, to whom, we believe, to hell where he belongs; he was able to leave this world without being caught up in justice. This is, by the way, the responsibility of all governments after the change of regime, but most of all yours, who received an unprecedented mandate in 2010, and by the way, Christian national voters would have expected you to do so, and I am convinced that to this day, they expect you to finally close the past, close the previous system and account for all its sinners. Because it is quite difficult, by the way, that there are more Communists among the members of the Fidesz government than there were at the time of the MSZP. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Oh! Oh!]] And those people, the figures, whether journalists or all kinds of public figures who are located in your moonyard, there are quite a few of them, who, let me put it mildly, have been involved in a minimum of agent suspicion over the last few years, who have already been written by the press or, let's say, assumed to have a past agent. Whether it is one of your number one editor-in-chiefs serving the government, Miklós Ómolnár, whether it is the Csizmadia László who organises the peace processions or those who otherwise served the previous system in exactly the same way as you, such as István Stefka or András Bencsik, to mention a few more of those who are organizing peace processions and campaigning and taking down the opposition from state-blown money instead of you; and they would have done this out of another hundred million if they had not managed to prevent that poster law today. Or he's here, isn't he, Snow Sofia's case? Let me do a page cut to the left here - who is free to abuse the memory of the 1956 Revolution, who can Nazi his 56 heroes, talk about anti-Semitic pogroms, and in the democratic and many renewed Hungarian Socialist Party, there was no consequence of this in the world. But let the socialists account for that for themselves and their voters. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy intervenes.]] What's sadder is that you created a law that wasn't suitable at the time, I'm talking about a law that denies the sins of dictatorships, which turned out not to have the capacity to impose sanctions or to impose penalties on the perpetrator in such a completely clear, public outrage. It is also worth considering. But then, in the past, it was spread with a great feat, and they told me how committed the government was to not deny the sins of any dictatorship and any antihuman dictatorship, and how good this law will be and how it will strike everyone down. We can see exactly how wrong this is, and how far it has not been. Then I could put it in length, I won't do it for so long, but for a sentence or two, please allow us to see how much credibility we still have with this proposal and what it says. Here is the Institute of Polish National Memory, also mentioned by Congressman Vejkey. Mr. Congressman, I am sorry, you have not voted down Jobbik's proposal on this matter on a number of occasions, either in committee or here in Parliament; not only do I want to highlight you, but once you have brought the Institute of Polish National Memory here as an example in any context. Yeah, that's what we were talking about when, for the last time, I don't know if we can count how many proposals Jobbik and LMP have made over the last few years that would serve to confront the state security past, a lot. Now one of our new initiatives has recently been what you have also said 'no' to us, in the model of the Polish National Remembrance Institute, to create an organisation that has real powers to explore the past and to hold agents, the servers of the previous system, and to provide sufficient publicity for that. You voted against it, you consider it a lot. You will be satisfied with the Fidesz gig called the National Remembrance Committee, which, of course, bears the national word on its behalf and the members of which have only been proposed by you and only you. No one else has been allowed here, and the opposition has not been given the opportunity to be included in this committee by any other expert, possibly not close to you, and to have access to these documents. We will maintain this proposal, we will set up this institute after we get to the government. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Oh! Oh!]] and we will make all the proposals and all the laws that Hungarian society would otherwise have expected of you in the two cycles of their governance. There is more to be done, there is still scope, although not much, because those who participated in the repression of the 1956 Revolution, for example, or who worked as employees of the State Protection Authority at the time, are increasingly losing weight. [[12.50]] Well, there are a few more, I don't want to give you names right now, but we're working on a case or two right now, by the way, I can tell you that much. So there are still sinners of the Communist dictatorship who still live and are accountable to this day, if there were enough political will, proper laws and proper functioning of justice in Hungary, as it is now. But it didn't happen, or half-solutions have been made with the withdrawal of communist luxury pensions, since my fellow Member Vejkey was pleased to remember Bisku. You have brought some beauty patch on this matter, and this proposal, which we are talking about here, is a beauty patch, let me make that clear. Some few allowances have been withdrawn, pension allowances for one or two awards have been withdrawn, but basically the situation has not changed during the seven years of your government, the former party of state or the organizations associated with the party of state, so, in general, you have not changed the privileged, hundreds of thousands of HUF pensions of the members of the Communist power elite before 90, nomenclature who are still alive today. But at the same time, the institution's renaming was successful, even though it was full of pro-government press, and we heard the nice words from the authors in Parliament about the fact that it was a nice gesture and a nice occasion for closing the past and facing it; we made a law on those involved in the operation or maintenance of authoritarian regimes that cannot be named as public spaces and public institutions. Unfortunately, there are also shortcomings in this matter, including those that we have specifically drawn attention to. Let me refer you back to László Rajk, for example. The Rajk László College was defended here in Parliament by Bence of Rétvár, who, by the way, wanted the Marx statue removed from the building of Egyház, by the way, quite rightly. So there is still a Rajk László College. The fact that László Rajk was hanged by his own comrades doesn't take anything from his sins, from the sins he has contributed to building the Rákosi dictatorship. The fact that he has become a communist martyr from a communist politician doesn't really change much about his way of life. László Rajk has a lion's share of responsibility for the eradication of the democratic multi-party system. The measures taken as Minister of the Interior, either by banning social organisations or by participating in the establishment of the State Protection Authority, make him completely and clearly unworthy to bear the name of any public institution in Hungary today. But we could talk about Ervin Szabó, the anarchist scientist, the artist, or I don't know what we call him, who planned the murder of István Tisza. So there are still many issues in the symbolic space that you could deal with, if it were true will, and if you didn't stand on these matters that if Jobbik has already raised it, then no, not even if we are right and even if that is what the law says. I told you all this as a summary to tell you that I don't really understand what's hiding behind your fear. I can say that I do not doubt his anti-communism, but we do not know to this day what kind of forces are moving with you, what forces are moving behind Fidesz or Fidesz, which always decide to bring up such a small symbolic matter, try to modify certain laws with some beauty patch, which, of course, is brought down by the pro-government press to a great extent, soothing the pro-government believers that yes, this is a normal Christian, national, anti-communist government. But it doesn't really change anything, or it doesn't move very little. We would like to know who really is blocking the accountability of the criminals of the previous system, who, to this day, cannot even close the red past, who, to this day, cannot be seen clearly as to exactly what tasks have been performed, what role has been played in the past system, who have cooperated with state security, and who, because of the operation and maintenance of dictatorship, should be excluded from Hungarian public life, which you are also unwilling to do. That Lustration Act should have been adopted 27 years ago by the then MDF government if it had not agreed to transfer power with the Communists and then did not betray the entire regime change, which many people today respect as an Antalli legacy. That's the law you should have passed. This will be the law, this Lustration Act, which we will do in addition to several provisions, and we will create the exclusion of the sinners and those responsible by the previous system from Hungarian public life. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-06-14-44	Thank you, Congressman. I took the opportunity to give you a minute's extra time. [[István Szávay: Thank you very much.]] Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Sallai Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2017-06-14-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, I would like to start by debating a few things with my fellow Member, Mr Savay, if you have spoken before me. First of all, he said that he did not question the commitment of Mr Hoppal and our fellow Member. Their voting behaviour has been in the opposite direction over the past period. Yes, it can be called into question that all efforts to do so have been prevented in Parliament so far. This raises a strong question as to whether I should turn to the initiative in good faith. On the other hand, he asked the rhetorical question as to who hindered the knowledge of the past of the agent and who hindered the country from having a normal system of frustration. I do not know how much my better fellow Member intended this to be a rhetorical question. We have the Fidesz MEPs sitting next to us, who have been elected by the majority of Hungarian society as individual representatives; the government, they are the ones who are hindering us. The Hungarian Constitution gives them the opportunity to vote freely. Still, they hide them, hide ex-agents, ex-informers. They've been doing this for seven years. This is what we need to talk about most now, because it is pathetic and terribly embarrassing that, when the MSZP stands out to be public, we should do everything we can to make it accessible, then Fidesz-KDNP is still hiding the same people who were informants of their neighbours and colleagues. You have done everything in the last seven years to prevent these from being public, and instead of making any effort now to let the public know - and that is the emphasis on making it known to the public - instead, you are bringing in as a substitute act a law that is inadequate to make public and universally accessible documents recalling the past in this regard. So this is a very, very embarrassing and pathetic cover-up of what you have done recently with the opposition's efforts, including the LMP. We can practically see this bill as the main evidence of hypocrisy, because for seven years now, we have had the opportunity to explore the past of agents, at least symbolic accountability and recognition of the sinners and operators of communism. Nothing should have been done, the May Other has proposed 14 times in seven years, this proposal has been continuously developed over the seven years. Every time it was rejected, every time you critiqued why you didn't accept it, we would always complement it, always change it, take into account scientific aspects for research, take into account political considerations, take into account humane considerations. We've always improved it, and yet you haven't even appreciated it being included in a series of subjects. It has not been considered suitable for this debate in Parliament for the last seven years. So you have made this impossible, and obviously there are specific reasons for that, which my fellow Member Savay also came up with specific names. [[István Szávay: And I could name it for a while!]] It's clear that Fidesz-KDNP has more agents, more ex-communist criminals, now in their ranks than anyone else in the country. You clearly have this past, not only in political culture, because there is a clear political cultural overlap between the quality and genre of their governance, but also in what they do. They also feel that this is very, very embarrassing when the once fought anti-communist Fidesz is washing and hiding the sins and sinners of communism. For the second time, therefore, they are trying to ease their consciences and sell a weak attempt and effort to try to eliminate something from this total contradiction. [[13.00]] The first time was the establishment of the National Remembrance Committee at the end of 2013. The Commission's performance and work so far, in particular, in the light of the amounts invested, may well raise doubts, since there is nothing substantial about it, and the main problem is clearly that the organisation's value is that its activities and findings cannot be verified to the public, its origin and credibility cannot be revealed. Past exploration depends only on the role and professionalism of the members of the committee elected by the majority of governments. Obviously, this has been unacceptable and will continue to be unacceptable, and we will judge this legislation accordingly. The bill we are discussing now is about the same smearing and false solutions, nothing more, the same narrow system is being shaped by the majority of governments, it brings back a little additional action, but it is not, in fact, the real confrontation with the past. The proposal does not account for the real people responsible for the crimes of the previous system; the bill does not necessarily mean the beginning of the work, as my opposition colleagues have said, which should have started 27 years ago. Basically, we're talking about a proposal that, on the basis of a proposal from the National Remembrance Committee in March, would dissolve the secrecy of infamous magnetic tapes guarded within seven locks in the Constitutional Protection Office, but only if it does not violate state security interests. The current non-content, completely unsustainable rating would therefore be abolished and the information available from the tapes would also be transferred to the Historical Archives of the State Security Services. This is a minimal step forward, of course, but it is not a solution, and this is just a puzzle piece in the picture that Hungarian society should have known for 27 years. This bill does not change the fact that automation is lacking in the system, the data necessary to identify all persons cooperating with public security in the public interest, i.e. anyone who can be known to the public, and this is the most important part of the proposal for which this proposal is unacceptable, has not become public in the public interest, has not become accessible to everyone. From this point on, the hypocrisy of this proposal is obvious. There is also no gradual publication of State Security documents on the Internet. It will only be known within the current, tight-cut framework of which the rating, so Fidesz itself will think that it can be public. Publicly, it's just what the NEB with a monopoly on past exploration wants and wants. Basically, the peaceful transition in 1989-90 and the price of constitutional change were, among other things, a series of compromises between the change of regime parties, the party of state and the rule of law and the state-state-security nomenclature of home affairs. Not only did the publicisation of state security documents fail, and instead came the special Hungarian model of secret document destruction, eye-slashing, political blackmail, but also observations, compromises, disruptions, executives and directors that were fundamentally contrary to a new democracy even years ago could remain or be returned to important posts. Although politicians of today's governing parties did not demand the resignation of Péter Medgyessy for his past state security without a moral basis, it has been revealed in recent years that this was also in the interest of political interest, for example, the appointment of László Tasnádi, State Secretary, showed at the time that the shadow of the communist dictatorship is not embarrassing to Fidesz, and it is even desirable that you choose these people. The LMP does not just want publicity, and that is not what our ambition is all about. We do not think that it is narrowly too late to do the issues that were missed at the time of the change of regime with a quarter of a century delay. The assessment of the party state past of some parties and politicians is primarily the responsibility of voters and Hungarian society, not the privilege of some people created by Fidesz. In 2017, therefore, it is no longer in any way impossible to expect that in the political positions most decisive for the rights and protection of citizens, there were neither state security service providers nor former party state politicians in the political direction of the repressive machinery. To date, it is unclear whether the claims made by the entrepreneur Lajos Simicska have any basis for Hungary's Prime Minister. They are certainly right to be afraid of such publicity. The proposal presented in the past reveals only a very, very small step. The proposal submitted by the LMP 14 times was much more ambitious and was capable of creating a public profile, which we do not understand why our fellow Members are afraid of the ranks of Fidesz-KDNP. Our goal was not merely to carry out a witch hunt, but to create an opportunity to face our history, the past, and, above all, to explore the present. Our goal is to finally look into each other's eyes, to speak openly and clearly about the fact that the regime-changing parliament was already full of people involved in communist state security, and it is feared that this is no different with the current government. We want a clear answer to the question of whether we want to live in Hungary, where, even after a quarter of a century, politics, economy and media cannot be freed from ex-manipulators and the informers who have built invisible networks that still virtually deny their existence, yet their existence is due to a dictatorship. The fact that you have voted against this 14 times means that Fidesz-KDNP has given a mandate to old Communist state security officers, and this proposal now does not change that. The part of the proposal which prohibits reference to a document illegally held for the purpose of proving a fact is once again a policy of sweeping under the carpet, and again serves to hide the historical facts. According to the current legislation, judicial practice, unlawful evidence obtained in civil proceedings can also be used on the basis of judicial judgement. The new civil order, which will enter into force next January, will change this in so far as it introduces a narrowly absolute ban and, at the same time, retains the possibility of judicial discretion. Compared to this, the general limit contained in the bill is a serious step backwards. There will be an absurd legal situation, not only that, because of poor legislation, individuals who clearly and demonstrably work as agents will win lawsuits, but also that the court may not consider such information as evidence. This is completely unacceptable. You will eliminate the possibility that some legitimately protect their interests, learn about their past and prove the activities of those with a history of state security and communists. In the last quarter of a century, we have learned the truth from documents that have been in doubt. Therefore, LMP will continue to demand full disclosure and, in the case of illegal document holders, accountability. The answer to illegal document possession is not to prevent the truth from being revealed, but to punish manipulators. We are certainly treating illegal document possession as an abuse, and we are chasing it at some level, as information is still being leaked in individual cases from the point of view of political interests, so that they certainly have significantly more than, for example, you give some of them the opportunity to do so. At present, there is no complete public record, but for many facts that can be enveloped, this amendment will prevent the truth from being revealed in the first place, while the new civil order precludes the use of unlawful evidence. Thus, the court is also deprived of discretion in the proposal. What could be the reason for this? Ongoing lawsuits? A few individual cases from the ranks of the ruling party with a representative? Why should the discretion of documents that may be considered by the court be clearly excluded? What additional documents could the governing parties fear from trying to prevent this? Because it seems a little like this is the real intention of this proposal beyond everything else, because it is not suitable for anything else. The Possibly Other Politics will continue to do everything in its power to ensure that Fidesz does not consider this issue to be closed. We will submit our proposal over and over again, and we will do everything we can to ensure that Hungary's society and the general public are aware of the cover-up of all communist crimes that Fidesz-KDNP is providing at the moment, and we should point out to as many as possible that Fidesz-KDNP has a serious debt to the Hungarian electorate. You do not want to pay this debt, you do not want to create an opportunity to make substantial progress. You still want to hide historical facts and documents and put some people in a situation of information monopoly who, according to their own political interests, can abuse it at any time. For all these reasons, we do not consider this legislative proposal to be appropriate for the Parliament to accept this. We ask the author to withdraw this proposal and put the proposal of the May Other Policy on the agenda, take it into consideration and discuss whether all these documents will be made available to everyone and made public. We ask your support for this. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-06-14-46	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Independent Members do not take part in the debate, so now we have two-minute speeches. I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2017-06-14-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party, I can safely say that we repeat and confirm several times that we have supported, supported and supported the promotion of the publicity of agent files. This bill, which is in front of us, has, in my personal opinion, a setback. [[13.10]] It contains steps backwards because it provides a loophole from the mandatory transfer of documents to be handled by the archives - a loophole; not a confirmation, but a loophole. The bodies covered by the law can refuse without any difficulty - I say: they may refuse - to supply documents which are so-called dear to them to the archives, which is otherwise contrary to the logic of this draft law. I must say that there is no close correlation between the past and today's bill. The question of the use or inability to use documents, documents and documents is raised. They intend to limit the use of the documents. There is a legitimate question and a condition: for whom or for whom? I also believe that it is right to make the points that are right to have people suing for suspicion that this kind of behavior is essentially intended to cover up some people's past. I think this bill is useless in solving the case. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-06-14-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I wonder if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda in the remaining timeframe. [[For signal:]] Congressman István Szávay has spoken. You have the floor.
u2017-06-14-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Again, for many times and for no reason, I ask my fellow Member Vejkey to respond as rapporteur to the points raised. I feel the need for this emphasis because, in recent months and over the past one or two years, there have been some legislative proposals that have raised related problems, or that my fellow Member Vejkey and I have been in a situation where very serious issues have been raised, which you have not been willing to answer in the debate with a noble simplicity, especially as these problems, which show a step backwards in some of the elements of the proposal, or say that this proposal may be a step backwards in some respects, I believe that they can be a cause for concern for everyone who is otherwise well-meaning with this law, and that the exploration of the past of state security is an issue in which both the LMP and the MSZP and Jobs have been a much more decisive position for many years now than you have. If I have heard correctly, but I do not wish to speak on behalf of my fellow opposition Members for the world, it has been said by all three parties or it has come to light that the elements of the proposal that make progress to the public, but that there are problematic elements that make it difficult for many of us to support the proposal. That is why I ask my fellow Member once again that we discuss this matter now, not in the closing words, because then we no longer have the opportunity to answer that. There is still a time frame for every faction; I propose, Mr President, that we discuss this issue now, so that we too can see clearly and take a responsible position, or more precisely: to propose to our fractions for the final vote. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2017-06-14-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Imre Vejkey, as rapporteur, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-06-14-51	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I thank our fellow Member Hoppál and Secretary of State for his statement of support from the government. On the part of the individual factions, our fellow Member Gergely Bárándy said on behalf of the MSZP that they will talk about this issue tomorrow, the bill. I'm asking you to support it. István Szávay, our better fellow Member, said that the proposal was fundamentally considered worthy of support, but our fellow Member, Mr R. Benedict LMP, said that he did not explicitly support it, and that we should take this proposal down, and instead what they had submitted earlier will be re-submitted and rather support it. In this regard, I thank those who support our proposal. Returning to the questions asked because there were some questions, primarily from our fellow Member, Gergely Bárándy, who asked two questions. One question was that all documents had to be forwarded to the archives earlier, why this provision would change now. Obviously, our fellow Member has asked this question in connection with the expiry of the encryption period, but it is clearly in itself that if an encryption period has expired in relation to a document, it does not mean that there is no sharp data in it, such sharp data as the Hungarian state security interest. [[István Szávay intervenes.]] It wouldn't hurt. So I think that this could be the right answer to this question. He also asked why exceptional procedures had to be followed in relation to this bill. In fact, there was a visualization, as if it were a lex Varga law in this case. Dear fellow Member, I'm gonna have to decline that. Obviously, there are no such laws. [[István Szávay intervenes.]] But - assuming, but not accepting, your assumption - if they were such, the bill would obviously have come before this House in such a way that the court of first instance would be able to judge accordingly and not wait for the risk of the first degree of judgment on the case of our former fellow Member. István Szávay confirmed the questions that our colleague Gergely Bárándy asked, so I answered them. He objected to why I mentioned Béla Bisku in the Expo. Obviously, I mentioned Béla Biszku in a context that was not a positive manifestation of the person, so it was not a positive constellation, but rather a rather decisive negative impression of the agent question itself. Our fellow Member Szávay also proposed an amendment to Btk. in his speech as a speaker, and in fact criticized the functioning of justice in several cases. I have to say that the justice system, I mean the functioning of the courts, is right at a certain level. You're right, because we have a great heartache, too, but we have to acknowledge that judicial power is an independent power, and that neither Parliament nor the government has any influence on it, and that's what it is. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Is that a big problem, huh? You'll figure this out.]] It's okay. The courts and the judges themselves have to decide on their own conscience and their own legal knowledge, even if we like it, even if we do not, but I believe that the separation of powers is an important pillar of democracy, and interfering with this would be unworthy of anyone. Our fellow Member István Szávay also raised the number of proposals for the implementation of the Polish National Memory Institute, IPN in Hungary. [[13.20]] Ladies and Gentlemen, We have the National Remembrance Committee, which is equivalent to IPN, whether you like it or not, to our fellow Member Savay. Sallai R. Benedek on the speech of our fellow Member of the LMP: we regret that the LMP does not support the bill. Today, there was a vote where they did not support their own amending proposal, and they also turned away from their own amending proposal. We are concerned that this is how they turn away from exploring the crimes of communism, especially in the context of this bill. He's been critical of the new civil order, but it's obvious that it was also aimed at the new Be., which I understand is the new Pp for you. And the new Be. He was also involved in the development of experts, and the Ministry of Justice had several five-party discussions, and at that time such problems were never raised. It may not have been explicitly supported during the vote for party policy purposes, but experts who participated in professional work and five-party negotiations have supported it all along. Thank you for your attention and for your support of the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-14-52	Thank you very much, Congressman, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill on the amendments necessary for the integration of the National Pension Insurance Directorate-General into the Hungarian Treasury until the closure. The government referral is T/15866. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Katalin Veresné Novák, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Madam Secretary. [[Dezső the gullible will be replaced by Nándor Gúr in the notary seat.]]
u2017-06-14-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On 29 May 2017, the Government submitted to the National Assembly a bill on amendments to the laws necessary for the integration of the National Pension Insurance Directorate-General into the Hungarian Treasury. The bill relates to the implementation of government decisions on the review of the central offices and the ministerial background institutions in the form of budgetary bodies. In order to achieve the simpler structure and efficient functioning of the public administration system, the government decided that, from 1 November 2017, the National Pension Insurance Directorate-General would be integrated into the Hungarian Treasury. The merger also means taking over the tasks currently performed by the National Directorate-General for Pension Insurance for the Treasury. The bill resolves certain issues related to the operation of the Treasury in the context of the transformation and contains the necessary amendments to the law due to the merger. In order to ensure the efficient performance of public tasks, the government aims to establish a public administration structure in which, at the central level, the Ministries, the remaining central offices, such as the Hungarian State Treasury, and the law enforcement and institution-keeping bodies, are located at the central level. The rationalization of the structure of the public administration and its cost-effective operation therefore require that the tasks relating to public financial benefits and payments are performed by a single central office, the Hungarian Treasury. This will facilitate the development of central payment conditions for public financial services. This process has already started within the ONYF and will continue as of 1 November 2017 within the Treasury. The main aim of the development of monetary services is to achieve as much integration as possible and to increase efficiency. The main aspect is that customers have access to their care through a simpler and more efficient procedure rather than the current fragmented administration. The essence of this is that in the future all public cash benefits will be obtained by citizens through the professional system of the Hungarian Treasury. As soon as the integration process is completed, the same organisation will conduct any payment event or administrative need within a few years following the same procedure. Dear Parliament, The National Pension Insurance DG currently carries out its tasks as a central pension insurance body, a central family support body, a social authority and a health insurance body. What, then, are the tasks that the Treasury will perform as a result of the merger? Planning, management and accounting tasks related to the management of the Pension Insurance Fund, central tasks linked to the social security register. This includes, in addition to pension insurance and cash health insurance benefits, the central tasks related to a number of other benefits. The establishment of family support benefits, disability allowance, pension benefits, cash health insurance benefits is currently carried out by government agencies under a single procedure based on central IT systems and administrative support. This includes central tasks related to the operation of certain social authority registers and the provision of data. The most important task is the receipt of Nyufig by the Directorate for Pensions of the National Pension Insurance Directorate. With this, nearly 3 million people's pensions, care, family allowances for families raising children and additional regular financial provisions are also subject to the responsibility of the Hungarian Treasury. Dear Parliament, After integration, the Ministry of Human Resources shall be responsible for the management of the Pension Insurance Fund and the pension insurance sector. However, the actual implementation of the basic management will then be the responsibility of the Hungarian Treasury. This model will only work if the Ministry of Human Resources has appropriate professional management powers over this treasury activity. Thus, the administrative district offices and county government offices as well as the professional management of the Treasury's activities remain in one hand. This solution is similar to the professional management of rural development tasks assigned to the Treasury. Some details of the governance model will be and will be dealt with in lower-level legislation. Dear Parliament, As you can see, the integration of the National Pension Insurance Directorate-General into the Hungarian State Treasury involves a large scale expansion of functions and organisational transformation. This also requires a change in the lower level of legislation in the areas of pension insurance, health insurance, family allowances and social child protection benefits. The proposed legislation also includes amendments to the legislation on the financial basis for social security, the processing of the personal data of citizens, social benefits and pension benefits. However, these amendments do not, of course, constitute substantive re-regulation. This creates the condition that the tasks to be carried out by the Treasury, as has been the case so far, will continue to be carried out smoothly. This is a fundamental requirement, since there has been no interruption in the payment of benefits in the past period and this will not happen in the future. Within the National Directorate for Pension Insurance, which is incorporated into the Treasury, there are still two administrative bodies, the Centre and the Board of Pensions, whose tasks and powers are still separate from each other. The different nature of central and payment tasks justifies maintaining this organisational model in the future. The bill ensures that the employment conditions of the staff of the two administrative bodies remain unchanged in the future. The bill also initiates the amendment of the law on the registration of citizens' personal data and address. This is necessary for the purpose of checking the financing of social benefits, services, basic child welfare benefits and child protection professional services providing personal care, because of the transfer of records to the Hungarian Treasury. It is also part of the bill to amend the Act on Social Administration and Social Benefits, the Act on Identification Means and the Use of Identification Codes, and the Law on the Protection of Children and Child Welfare Administration. These changes base the future treasury management of social, child welfare and child protection records maintained by the National Directorate-General for Pension Insurance. The integration and development of payment systems will be carried out through development sources with the support of the European Union. [[13.30]] In total, this represents HUF 10 billion in support of the more efficient operation of public cash supply systems. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The amendments set out briefly above will result in a more efficient and modern operation of public administration and social security, and will establish an organisational framework for ensuring the payment and registration of central money supply in an integrated and up-to-date system. Please support the bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-14-54	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2017-06-14-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, on measures for the review of central offices and ministerial background institutions in the form of budgetary bodies 1312/2016. According to a government decision, the National Pension Insurance Directorate, as the State Secretary has already said in detail, will be incorporated into the Hungarian Treasury as of 1 November 2017. This process, as you can see, my fellow Members, has started about a year ago. It takes more steps to change this huge system, and it will be smoothly, without any mistakes. As from 1 January this year, and as we see it, this process will be complete from 1 November. In preparation for integration into the Hungarian Treasury, the structure and activities of the National Directorate-General for Pension Insurance have already changed significantly in several steps, including the reduction of official powers, the taking over of other tasks, the process of granting benefits, the conceptual transformation of the financial register. The powers of the authorities have already been reorganised. The Authority's tasks and powers set out in paragraph 4 of the Government Decision have been transferred from central office level to county or district office level or from county government office level to district office level since 1 January 2017. These are steps that are citizen-friendly measures, as it is important to keep the offices as close as possible to those to be cared for. Central tasks have also been expanded. As a result of the redeployment of official powers, the National Pension Insurance DG has been able to rationalise the registration of claims based on repayment and reimbursement decisions in the areas of pension insurance, rehabilitation and family support in relation to its management and payment tasks. The central register and management of payments linked to agreements relating to the acquisition of pension rights have been resolved through IT development. This single registration system is extremely important.2017. The ex officio assessment of the increase in pensions on the basis of work on the basis of pensions was introduced as from 1 January 2007. From 1 January 2017 too, family support benefits will be centrally paid in addition to other benefits paid by Nyufig. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to rationalise the task of central offices, the deployment of central tasks related to social security and family support benefits to the National Directorate-General for Pension Insurance served the further aim of concentrating large public care systems within the remit of a single body following integration into the Treasury. The first priority in these measures is to ensure that the conversion does not jeopardise the payment of the financial benefits concerned, but does not jeopardise the continued and smooth provision of retail services. From 1 January 2006 the National Pension Insurance Directorate-General took over the central tasks of the National Health Insurance Fund in relation to health insurance cash benefits, accident sickness and travel expenses. The above included, in addition to regulatory, administrative and supervisory tasks relating to the benefits concerned, a task related to the operation and development of the IT system supporting the establishment of benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the above, the transformation of the National Pension Insurance Directorate as described in its task provision has already established the basis for the creation of a single treasury operation in the future. Thus, from the beginning of 2017, pension benefits paid by Nyufig prior to 2017 and social benefits, as well as family support benefits paid at other stages of life, will also be paid from the same professional scheme. With this, some 50 percent more people, some 4 million people, have been paid from the largest central system compared to the number of 2.6 million so far. The register and management of claims against former and received benefits from Nyufig from 2017 have also become uniform. Thus, the same approach, the same management and the same treatment can be enforced in a much larger number of public benefits. In addition to the registration of pension benefits and family allowances, the National Pension Insurance Directorate-General was also responsible for the central tasks of cash health insurance benefits and the systems for the registration of the disabled's benefits, services and social services. With these steps, cash benefits can be built much more widely on processes within the institution, including IT support for professional management, customer information and other specialised systems. The integration of the system of entitlement registration, decision-making, support and payment of cash benefits has been brought closer. For the further efficient and responsible performance of the tasks, EMMI is required to be the professional manager of the tasks of the National Pension Insurance Directorate-General to the Hungarian State Treasury. The supervision of the Hungarian Treasury belongs to the NGM, as we well know. Professional management functions would be in line with what the EMMI exercises over government offices. In addition, shared management is not unprecedented in the case of central offices. As regards the rural development tasks of the Hungarian State Treasury, the Chief Executive is the Prime Minister's Office. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the proposal, after the merger, the staff of the head office of the National Pension Insurance Directorate will be transferred to the MÁK Centre; while the new administrative body of MÁK, the head office, will be established from the pension-rendering board, alongside the 18 regional bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, The reason why I described in more detail the changes that had already taken place on 1 January 2017 is because they prove to be very substantial steps. The current law, which we are discussing, concerns ten laws, the necessary legislative amendments to the relevant sections of which are required to comply with last year's Government Decision 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, The Treasury is a participant and supervisor in the spending of central public funds. Its task is to monitor the flow of public funds so that no undue payments can be made. [[13.40]] As such, it is also very important to ensure transparency. In addition, the scope of the law is in line with the government's bureaucracy reduction vision, and it fully serves this purpose, i.e. the tasks of a public body that have been solved in parallel so far, including possible overspending. On this basis, my fellow Members, the Fidesz Group, also supports the objective of the Government Decision, the changes made on 1 January 2017 and the amendment of ten laws to be regulated by this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-14-56	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2017-06-14-57	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I don't even understand why this agenda is here on the last day of the spring session, but let's do it. Dear House, As I was saying, it is incomprehensible why we needed a separate bill on this, as if it were the right thing to show in a separate law. It should also be noted that a structure that has been in existence for nearly a hundred years and that an organisation that has been in its form and name has been removed, in particular, 24 years. The National Directorate-General for Social Insurance was established after its transformation as an predecessor organisation in 1993, as is known, the National Directorate-General for Pension Insurance. It is worth recalling what is on the website of the ENYF in the volume presenting the office: in Hungary, the National Pension Insurance Directorate plays an important role in the practical operation of the compulsory pension system. The ONYF is a central office, central budgetary body, managed by the Minister for Social Pensions. That's what the government's shutting down for good. Let's take a look at the problems. The first is that pension-setting departments were first pushed into government departments, many other non-penalty tasks, and then from 2017 to the designated district offices of government offices. Therefore, in order to avoid conflicts of interest on the surface, the second-degree review procedure was established with national authority at the Metropolitan Government Office. The second problem: the whole unthinkable agenda was first characterised by excessive centralisation and then by pointless, also excessive decentralisation. In the majority of district offices, where there has been no pension insurance office, there is a lack of professional, administrative and supportive IT conditions. It is not even generously possible to blame the application of the law on the fact that it is uniform. This is a step in the light of the history that has been taking place since 2011 and, first, legally and organisationally, the regional pension insurance agencies, the county pension insurance directorates, and where necessary, their branches have been brought here in a reasonable manner. In the meantime, from another point of view, the check was pulled out of the ONYF, and practically its legal and powers for pension management became zero. The biggest blow, which is also a tragedy for customers, is that the central administration and special pension control have virtually ceased. The third problem: the proposal concerns the fact that the expenditure of government agencies is not borne by the funds, and multiple transfers also exclude the correct recording of actual operating costs. The historical responsibility - or rather irresponsible - of the ONYF and the EMMI to join the ranks dictated by János Lázár and to destroy a 100-year-old culture of administration, instead of fighting arguments, would have called for the KDNP political leadership ruling the area, foolishly took on all the tasks of body strangers, captured Nyufig, who performed a separate special task of administration, and took on the central scan of government offices' files nationwide, which is the basis of a thousand problems. The management of the Pension Insurance Fund has also become formal, but also the Pension Fund itself. The fourth is such a problem: it is saddening and the reason can only be guessed why a sector pension management system, which is proven to be well and efficiently, with a realistic operating cost, had to be destroyed. In doing so, Fidesz sends a message to the active insured person who has obtained millions of pension rights and to the three million who have received foreign benefits that their case is not worth a separate administration system, and they think that the drug store solution is better. This is a shame, and to my knowledge, not in one Member State of the European Union. The fifth is such a problem: as it concerns the operators and operators of the current pension system, it does not matter whether a future new pension system can be satisfactorily managed in this framework because of the many management and supervisory transfers. By the way, the bill we've just submitted is a cover-up, so the client doesn't really know exactly who's in charge of his pension. The sixth is such a problem: in my opinion, it makes me think that pension matters are carried out by the system of organisation belonging to the MEH - it is about government offices and district offices - and their budget is there, as well as the labour law instrument system. The administrative tasks necessary for the payment of pensions are carried out by the Treasury of the NGM - I think, within a limited framework, because without it, it would not be possible to see clearly from the point of view of the Pension Fund's operating costs. In addition, there is the EMMI responsible for social security legislation. The question is whether it is possible to carry out a fair central administration and a uniform application of the law. I'm feeling a little confused here. It is difficult to excavate how much it costs to operate the pension system, even though this was a previously accepted requirement. Summa summarum, the government has systematically abolished the social security system over the last seven years, the Fundamental Law does not even include the term, the contributions have been converted into social taxes. A number of acquired rights have been taken away by the termination of disability pensions, the abolition of pre-age benefits. In addition, the private pension system was abolished, the savings of 3 million people were spent, and a significant part of the portfolio was transferred to oligarchs near Fidesz. Here I would refer to Mary Schmidt, Norbert Loves, or UniCredit Bank. An excessive and forced centralisation of the administration system has been launched, thereby destroying a well-functioning organizational system. The mergers and cuts significantly increased the burden of the administrators, and there were delays in pension-setting procedures. By abolishing the ONYF as an independent institution, they are essentially making a crown for the changes that have been made to date. In this way, as a Hungaricum, the central office of the pension insurance sector administration system of state social security will be terminated from the EU countries alone. Dear House, Given that the role of ONYF has been emptied in recent years, it is understandable that it will be completely wound up, but this is essentially the end of the separation of the Pension Insurance Fund so far, and it will only be a fund on its behalf, in fact only a budget chapter. With this step, the government admits that pension, pensions are just a budget line, a treasury task - that's what it's worth to ensure the sustainability of the pension system and its sectoral independence! The proposal will not be supported by the MSZP in the vote tomorrow. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-06-14-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sebestyén, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2017-06-14-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Of course, the Jobbik faction will not support the proposal in the vote, which is now before us, will not support it in many respects. One - linked to the previous solo - is that I too would start from the point in time when the new Fundamental Law was adopted that social security was removed from the Fundamental Law compared to the old constitution, and soon the pension insurance contribution was abolished, and now we are paying social contributions tax. The existence of insurance-based benefits is an important element in the system of benefits. I think that what we're seeing now is the destruction of this. As we have just heard, it will actually appear as just one budget line, even as the amount of pensions paid. Where are we going to get from the rightful demand that has been in our program, our electoral programme, for a long time, from the very beginning, so that the possibility of individual account management can be opened up in the pension insurance system? It took us light years to get there. By the way, I think that this is precisely the government's aim to make this impossible, untraceable, stabilize and cement this system even more, which we are now experiencing, stabilizing this pay-as-you-go system. [[13.50]] I think that we should reform and not stabilise the old system, rather reform the pension system, and touch this issue in a very different way. The other thing that the Secretary of State mentioned in her exposé: this is about rationalization, this is about saving, this is about restructuring the structure that we have seen in countless areas, centralisation, to belong directly to the ministry in question. If you look at our specialty, or rather, if you look at the specialties of EMMI, these centralizations have all failed. Don't you think we should finish this? We see what happened to the KLIK, and we have heard the same explanation of the reason for this; we see what happened to the SZGYF: they have created waterheads, which, in my opinion, involve extra budget expenditure, and they serve no other purpose than the creation of very excellent cadre cemeteries that can be moved as marionette dolls, and they put their good people there, who, in a subtle way, are often not very professionally at the top, they are not at the height of the situation. You can tell by the system, by the collapse of the system, what this centralization has caused. It has been said several times that, in addition to rationalising, this could mean savings. Are there any such calculations that the integration of the Directorate-General for Pension Insurance into the Treasury will cost exactly how many billion forints? 'Cause I think we're gonna get a zero-to-one result, and maybe, from the previous centralizations, there's gonna be extra costs for this kind of transformation. In the law, we also found guarantees about what will happen to the people currently working in the system and what will happen to their responsibilities. Then what I don't understand is how this merger can generate savings, if no change in personnel will occur, no change in personal benefits, the number of tasks will not only be reduced, but will increase, because by melting into the Treasury this sector will also receive additional tasks. Then where's the reduction, where's the savings? I think that, while we are talking about the restructuring of the system, they should not have been integrated into the system of family support and other benefits, but should have included these additional tasks within the system in the current administrative structure, even in the context of the implementation of the legitimate claim already mentioned in my speech, in order to establish individual account management. I think that, in its structure and character, it would have been an additional opportunity to analyse and carry out the task of the Directorate-General instead of the tasks added to the current legislative change. So I think it is wrong, as I said, to take action towards a very bad process towards its completion; I was thinking of the process of disrupting the entire pension insurance system. I also see that centralisation is a negative thing, and from a professional point of view, it has brought only negatives to the sectors belonging to the EMMI. I do not see the possibility of saving, I think it means extra costs, and it should have been more a matter of strengthening the National Directorate-General for Pension Insurance, not melting it, and strengthening it should have given them additional tasks related to making the pension system safer. In this way, the system might have become sustainable, and what is expected to happen within a few decades, according to economists and social professionals, is that the current pension system, if not for a subversive reform, will collapse, both as a result of the demographic and other sociological situation and as a result of the expected global economic situation. So we should spend more energy on this, not on creating new waterheads, not on merging, not on creating new giga government institutions, where, by the way, among many midwives, the child is often lost, and the many strands of action and the many areas that each such institution brings together lead to the neglect of one area in many cases. Once again, as we see the process, whether the amendment of the Fundamental Law or the introduction of a social contribution tax, I think it will be the pension insurance system that will be the most vulnerable to this merger. So once again, our faction cannot support this proposal in any way. Thank you for listening.
u2017-06-14-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2017-06-14-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill is another manifestation of the government's centralization obsession. Since János Lázár decided to streamline the Hungarian administration and start cutting red tape, we see nothing but restructurings, mergers and mergers. This does not increase transparency, but, as practice shows, chaos. Today it has become completely untraceable, at which office the Hungarian people can handle such a mess in the whole system. The Hungarian public administration has not become more efficient, less efficient or more competitive in the past seven years, on the contrary: the continuous reorganisations, the shift of powers and the loading of workers have made the operation of the state apparatus much more difficult from place to place. Workers' poverty and wage cuts have led to a huge shortage of workers, which has put additional burdens on workers who have already been overwhelmed. This is also the case with the Hungarian Treasury, where they are about to merge the National Pension Insurance Directorate. The aim of the restructuring is to keep a single public paying agency, the MÁK, all income from the State is transferred from a single centre, and the self-health insurance and pension insurance fund should cease. An example of how thought-out these restructurings are shows that in 2015 the government transferred family support cases from the county directorates of the Hungarian Treasury to the metropolitan and county government offices, and two years later, from January this year, it transferred them to the National Pension Insurance Directorate in order to be able to end up again at the State Treasury by the integration of the National Pension Insurance Directorate into the MÁK from November. The National Directorate-General for Pension Insurance comes to the same fate as the National Health Insurance Fund, which has already been abolished by the government. An institutionally and professionally independent pension fund would still be as needed as an independent OEP, but the government also grinds these institutions up just for that reason. He also does not want to know that this is a threat to the transfer of pensions, for example, because despite the fact that the head of the Hungarian Treasury claims that the payment of pensions will not be delayed after organizational integration, and that the monthly payroll of nearly one million people, the transfer of two million pensioners' benefits and other payments will be in the greatest order, the employees of the State Treasury will think of this in a completely different way, and the experience of recent years has not shown that the changeovers would be smooth. According to the employees of the Hungarian Treasury, it is a miracle that this system is still functioning at all, and it has not collapsed, who could do so, has already gone to the competition sector to work for a higher salary. The employees of MÁK, like government officials in central government administrations, have not received a salary increase for eight to ten years, work for humiliating wages, many earn a net salary of HUF 107 thousand, regularly working overtime. According to MÁK's employees, there may be delays in the transfer of salaries and pensions if the number of people continues to decline and more people leave the public sector for a living, and this, my fellow Members, there is a chance, as the government has postponed their increase by another year. [[14.00]] The employees of central public bodies would have been in the third wave of state officials' career models from January 2018, but this was postponed by the government another year in the salad law establishing the budget. In this bill, they also make sure that, by melting the ONYF, former pension fund workers who come to the MÁK do not receive the same salary supplement as MÁK workers. This will further exacerbate wage tensions between low-income workers on both sides. It is not surprising that the workers are preparing for a two-hour warning strike on 17 July to achieve that the government should finally increase the salary of nearly 200,000 employees, including MÁK employees, who have so far been left out of all wage measures and have not increased their wages since 2008. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Instead of fulfilling legitimate demands, however, János Lázár cynically told them that it was not permissible to play with the state's financial system. The Minister's words are particularly cynical because the government is playing with the state's financial system when it does not increase the wages of workers and expects overloaded, underpaid workers to operate the system. If they are doing such important work, according to János Lázár, that the employees of the MÁK are moving the state's financial system, then perhaps their work should be paid. 'Cause it's really bad. According to a State Treasury employee, so many people can be seduced into the private sector that those who remain at the Treasury have to fight very seriously so that they don't feel what is wrong with themselves in any month. It is a small miracle that hundreds of thousands of people have not yet noticed the problem of shortage of workers. Why doesn't the government care about that? The LMP does not support this bill, because we consider it another manifestation of mindless, unthinkable centralization. In addition to self-serving centralization, we have not heard any arguments as to what the point of this merger is, what is the point of abolishing a pension fund, what will be better. We do not see the professional merits of integration, because we do not consider it a professional reason to have a single paying place. We do not see guarantees that this reorganisation will not adversely affect people that there will be no disruption, for example, in referring to pensions. According to the LMP, instead of reorganising and keeping workers hungry, the government should work to ensure the necessary number of people to perform the public tasks safely. And to do so, immediately raise the scandalously low wages by 50 percent according to trade union demands. So we need an immediate and radical wage increase and an increase in the number of people. We see that if the government doesn't do this, then he alone will be responsible if there are more serious operational problems. So we call on the government not to joke about people's salaries, benefits, pensions. The LMP will not support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-06-14-62	Welcome, fellow Members. Thank you for your speech. I now give the floor to notary Nándor Gúr as a speaker who has applied in advance.
u2017-06-14-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. János Lázár talks about lineage, while centralization is taking place. Secretary of State Katalin Veresné Novák: this will serve to function effectively, she says in the emerging ideas. While there have been many cases in recent years that the security of references has already shaken a little. It should be added that the security of cash supply, the security of the reference, by what you are now starting to build, in quote sign, will virtually render the security of the references impossible. Then, when we experience this, they will have to face and endure all the consequences. I'm telling you, the experience of the last few months has already confirmed it. The system that you have been flogging over the past few years has led, where appropriate, to the fact that people retiring have not received their benefits for many months. You don't really think that's the way to live a life with honor, do you? You, who function as members of the government, are likely to receive their corresponding salary every month; people who receive a large fraction of their pension must wait months for their pensions and, where appropriate, their benefits. I have to say, they're not on the right path. But let's look at this bill and what's happened over the years. If it's a pension, I can't avoid it, and I don't want to bypass the general debate about the fact that over the past few years you have withdrawn 3 000 billion forints, confiscated from the pension system. You know, this is stolen money from private pension savings. The problem is, in addition to all this, you have taken huge resources out of the pension system. Of course, they did so by eliminating previous entitlements... [[To the noise coming from the table of Katalin Veresné Novák:]] You don't have to be so afraid of these thoughts. [[Katalin Veresné Novák: It is so primitive, Congressman, that you are simply shocked, seriously! Unbelievable, really.]] I don't want the Secretary of State beating things up around you. No, you don't have to, you have to answer the questions that come up. You have to answer! [[Katalin Veresné Novak: Primitive. You might want to lower your tone a little bit. It's just amazing... the president's ringing.]] Qualify what you have to say and what your government does. You are not here to judge what Members of Parliament have to say, but you are here to answer the questions asked. [[Katalin Veresné Novák: Calm down, I will!]] Just so we're clear on the roles, Madam Secretary. [[Katalin Veresné Novák: Thank you so much for giving me a lecture! There's a lot of ground to it.]] Please. The thing is, Madam Secretary, in many cases you do not know what your business is. In the same way as you are saying now about the presentation of the bill, the thoughts that may be put into your mouth with a power word, but do not think about the consequences of all this. So, the point is that, at the time when you guys ended a lot of benefits, it doesn't matter if you touch the issue of disability or accident pensions or any other early retirement, and you, together with raising your flexibility to 65 years in December 2010, have legitimized the retirement age, unlike a popular initiative, then you have practically put in place a system that will allow everyone to retire from 2022 only after they reach 65 years of age. I will not go deeper into the story, but in the last seven years they have even represented cases in respect of which those who were beyond 65 and who were able to work, with willingness, ability, intention, and willingness to receive their work, have even been punished on the other side in order to engage in work. So, they're gradually pulling out of basically funding social security. As I said, the most reprehensible activity is, in fact, that previously acquired entitlements were taken from people. And in the meantime, the pension insurance sector administration system that has worked well, acceptablely and along with people's satisfaction has been virtually completely destroyed for a long time, for decades. [[14.10]] And this process will continue. They have made the schedule of administration difficult, weakened its quality, its controllability, and much more. Now, when the Directorate-General for Pension Insurance merges into the Hungarian Treasury from 1 November, the incomprehensible situation arises that a structure that has been operating for nearly a hundred years, and in this form in which it now exists, about a quarter-century-year-old structure is being dismantled. The fact that you are going to put an end to this system means, in effect, and confirms that the sustainability of the pension system or its security, its independence in the sector, means nothing to you. The pension insurance systems and departments were first pushed into government offices, into the headquarters structure of government offices. As a next step, it was assigned to the designated district offices. You see, the problem is that these district offices today lack the professional system, in many respects the administrative system and the IT system that supports them, as well as the conditions. I know that there is still a fall time when we will have to face these issues, only when people will not receive their pension due to a multitude of IT problems, they will not receive these funds, then we will have to give appropriate answers, then we will have to tell people why it is. Because we streamlined, because we centralized, because we liquidated systems that have operated safely for a long time. You are eliminating the central - non-centralized - administration that provided for this condition. In a sense, pension control systems for special pensions are also being abolished. You know, they can't even meet the requirement that previously required the cost of retirement to be clearly and clearly visible. The only reason they can't live up to it is because they want to operate this system not through a one-step system, but through a multi-step system, as I said, from the department of government offices to the district offices, and then integrate the whole story into the MÁK. Earlier, it was rightly expected, and everyone expected that the cost of pension funding would be clearly and clearly visible. The expenditure of government agencies is not charged with the funds. Like I said, they're embedded in the system through multiple metastases. But the biggest problem I see is that working systems are being eliminated for arbitrary and for purposes that are not actually visible or even visible. They're destroying a really well-functioning, efficient system. I don't know what motivation is. I don't see why they're doing this, but I feel that what they're doing is going to cause a lot of damage to a lot of people in a lot of cases, and that's not right. It's not right, because it's not your job to risk and endanger the safety of people who are receiving pensions as a result of the work of the decades they've worked, it's your job to make sure that they don't even happen randomly in a situation where they become the victims of this. Convince me. Show me how many functioning systems there are in Europe that are similar to this system that you are proposing, which would support the degree of good functioning. I don't know a system like that in Europe today. I don't think they're going the right way. I think that what they have been doing in this regard in recent years does not generate benefits and returns for people, but is a threat and a risk. Destroying anything is always easier than putting it together, but putting it together like I said, it's in the best interest of people who once worked and are now retired. Bombing a well-functioning system unsubstantiatedly is, I believe, a sin, especially when life is going to prove what I'm talking about. What I'm trying to say, Madam Secretary, is that what you are doing can be interpreted as a Hungaricum, only as a Hungaricum that is not good, which is accompanied by no results, which is not in the interests of the people. You have already decided which organisations, regardless of whether it is an organisation related to health insurance and retirement activities, wish to sentence to death. I don't know why. What I don't know is why people are excluded from access to these systems in a direct way. I do not know why it is intended to centralize everything and operate in a form that can be paired with the issue of uncontrollability. In fact, it seems to me that with this step, the government admits that, for it, the system of running pensions or pensions is just a budget line, which, when placed in the Treasury, will carry out the task. This is what the pension system or its sustainability, its security, its sectoral independence is worth to you. To sum up, I would therefore like to say - not to repeat it, but to confirm it - that the transformation process that is taking place in the spirit of streamlinement, which, of course, is actually accompanied by tangible centralisation, and which is likely to be very risky in order to provide everyone with what is expected of them, puts this at risk, is not a good course, it is not a good way. I would like these to be considered, these to be considered, and no, I can say with a calm spirit, in a hemlocky way, to shape and shape the transformation of processes, systems and structures for a self-serving purpose. I would rather ask you to consider these things than to answer the questions of your representatives in an irritable manner or not to answer them, but to give your opinion on the final word. And I really don't want to hear about that. If you're willing to answer me as you go along, I'll hear it with my heart, and I'll answer it again. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-06-14-64	Thank you. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai.
u2017-06-14-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, If you don't mind, I'd like to ask you, Madam Secretary, I've applied first, if you'd like to react now, then of course I... [[Katalin Veresné Novák: I'm happy to respond.]]
u2017-06-14-66	Excuse me. We must keep the order of this House, and it is up to the congresswoman, because no secretary of state has come forward, if she does, then she will, too, so it is time for the congresswoman. [[14.20]]
u2017-06-14-67	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me first address a sentence to Nándor Gúr. To be gentle, perhaps more subtle than you've always been: you have not been very well-behaved, and not only have you not been polite to the Secretary of State, but you have used a teaching tone that I think the Secretary of State hasn't earned in the past or in the day, and I am convinced that she will not deserve in the future. Indeed, the secretary of state knows exactly what she is doing, and she knows her job very well, and she is doing her job well with the secretary of state she is running. And it's a Member's job, and let me explain it to you now, so that you can read the bill, maybe ask for background material, and prepare yourself. Today, the Secretary of State knows exactly the letters not only of the bill submitted, but also of her spirit, background, history, and where this bill will run out, and that is the aim. But you were talking about something else, not what was written in the bill. You made it seem that the pension system is in danger here, that the Hungarian people are not going to get a pension here - there is no such thing! This is a simplification and structural transformation. It is well known that Fidesz and KDNP are building a cost-effective and well-functioning, citizen-friendly state. That's what we're doing. You mentioned that we wanted to destroy the system a hundred years ago, and I don't know - I started taking notes - to eliminate it and destroy it. It's not like that. But consider, for example, that a hundred years ago, we did not wash with washing machines. The world changes in 20 years, even in five years, and in a hundred years, mostly. If we are thinking and implementing a system that is the objective that we have set for ourselves, I repeat once again: to create a citizen-friendly, simple, cost-saving and unnecessary water-free government administration and state structure, so if that is our goal, then we must make amendments and be brave enough to make these changes in our belief against you, to develop them, and then to discuss them here in Parliament, and to decide on them at our best discretion. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Council of the European Union, Dear Nándor Gúr, When you said that we would now put an end to a very well-functioning system, I would like to stress once again that it will not cease, but we hope that it will work even better or at least as well. And you don't have to worry about Erzsébet Schmuck, the overload of the people who are working in the MÁK will not increase because the number of people working in one place will be taken to another. So that task has already been performed by some, and now it may be the same people in the MÁK, although this is a matter of work organisation. But what has ceased, my dear Nándor Gúr: in your time, a month's pension has indeed been taken, the 13th month's pension has indeed ceased, and you have taken it back then. How we take care of pensioners: in your time, before 2010, there was indeed a higher percentage of pension increases, but inflation and inflation are multiples, many times more than now. During that period, inflation ate, melted pensions over several years, over a long period of time, and we restored its value-proofness in 2010 under the agreement with pensioners. Since 2011, pensions have maintained their value, and inflation is also virtually undetectable or very low in percentages, which is not a threat for pensioners. Depending on the productivity of the economy, our aim is to give more and more not only to the various occupational branches, but also to pensioners. I could mention now the Elisabeth voucher that was given to the pensioners or the pension premium that awaits them, what we plan to do. It was you who raised the retirement age. It was you who wanted to tax pensions. It was you who put thousands, tens of thousands of people who were about to retire into an impossible situation and made them unemployed. Most of these were women. This is why, after 2010, one of our first measures was to introduce the pension facility for women 40. I think that if, in the debate of this law, which is not about that, and I admit that I am not talking about the proposal that has been tabled, but allow me to say that if we are no longer discussing what is being tabled, that is to say, the technical details of the ten laws, how, in what way, the Directorate-General for Pension Insurance will be absorbed into the Hungarian Treasury, then allow us to continue political debate at the same time, and not to remain in injustice. Ladies and gentlemen, The women who lost their jobs and the people who lost their jobs in the period before 2010; the uncertainty, the distil of the system and the uncertainty of existence in the time of the socialists, before 2010, not only the pensioners, but also the whole society, the children, the elderly, those who are concerned about their work and everyone. There was no future for children then, no future for pensioners. We're trying to change that. If you do not agree, because it is possible to do this to be melted into the Hungarian Treasury, then say that you do not agree, but do not change the subject so that anyone listening to this debate is immediately afraid that we want to withdraw his pension, that he will not receive a pension for months now, because these will be the consequences of the transition. There will be no such consequences. When you say that, you have a very bad opinion about the people who work there. I think that the Hungarian Treasury is also a well-trained professional, and I am sure that they will do their best to ensure that this can be smooth not only in terms of management and restructuring, but also in terms of day-to-day work. From here, let us thank each employee for his sacrifice in this restructuring process. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing this to Erzsébet Schmuck: he said that he does not understand - probably because in the pre-written text he already somehow assumed that as soon as the secretary of state told me about her exposé, and I will tell him in my main speech the reasons why we support the proposal, so he already assumed that he would not understand what the point of this is. I can't, and I don't want to judge, that this is dehonoring you, the Secretary of State, or me. I think that you can understand the whole point, the purpose of this whole thing, you can argue with it, but I think that the way to argue is to understand what we want. We want to build and build a economy and a transparent state. The Hungarian Treasury is one of the best qualified and one of the best-working state organizations, which is completely transparent and traceable in spending money and public money. I believe that transparency and traceability are precisely the criteria and bureaucracy reduction and savings are reflected in this decision. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-06-14-68	Thank you. Now it is possible to make two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr. [[14.30]]
u2017-06-14-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to talk about two simple things in this two-minute period. One is that, in the context of the general debate, issues that we consider as risk elements and risk factors for the transformation process can obviously be raised. Yes, as a risk element and as a risk factor, we consider that the kind of centralization that is taking place now unprepared, at least not with a level of preparation that would give us the possibility, say, to provide everyone with the right level of care without any problems or problems in the autumn of 2017, which will obviously give rise to the possibility of asking questions. You know, structural transformation, honourable Congresswoman Mónika Duna, doesn't just mean centralization or that. No, that could mean a lot of other things. And, you know, the economy you've been talking about before, it's not necessarily just, and it could mean that a government in relation to your government doubles the number of State Secretarys, and I'm not talking about the Secretary of State, I'm talking about it in general. It's just about saving money. The credibility of what they say about government savings in this respect must be seen: in the budget planned for 2010 and 2018, what the state looks like in terms of resources spent on public functions. As compared to 10, in a non-absolute sense, the government spends 20 percent more of the budget to carry out public functions. So much for saving money. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-06-14-70	Thank you. I now give the floor for two minutes to Congressman Sebestyén Craftor.
u2017-06-14-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to Mónika of the Danube. I took it a little personally, as an opposition representative, what we don't understand. It is possible that you believe the government communication elements and the panels you have received, and that you may not understand what is in the background and why this amendment needs to be implemented. He said a few things I can't really agree with. I'm not dealing with the fact that I'm almost asking for a cup of coffee, the way they're arguing with each other, who did worse and who hurt the pensioners better: the balance would be balanced, and now it's starting to get a little out of hand with you. You were the ones who took away the early retirement allowance, you were the ones who terminated the disability pension, and I could tell you more, but I'm not gonna go along with it. What I would like to talk about, on the other hand, is that opposition representatives talk about the destruction of a 100-year-old system, not that I want to bring back the conditions of a hundred years ago, because they may have washed by hand a hundred years ago, but a hundred years ago they didn't mix the unwashed clothes with the unwashed vessel, because they have to do both in water anyway, so let it flow together. So I think we should think about that. Read the bill again, read about what the government has implemented in terms of centralization over the past period, how it ended, it came to light, and it was revealed and found out what the real purpose and the real reason was, then reinterpret the bill, and you may also understand it, and you may not agree. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-14-72	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck for two minutes.
u2017-06-14-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't mean to be cynical, but I could say that in the spirit of efficiency, we don't actually need so many ministries, one is enough. Let's put it all together. However, I cannot cynically say, for example, in the field of environmental protection and nature protection, that I have lived to see how the institutional system of environmental protection was destroyed in terms of efficiency and centralization. I think that where there are traditionally well-functioning organisations, they should be left alone and allowed to function. I don't know if you'll ever consider how difficult it is for the people who work here when it comes to restructuring. We have to let people work, we have to pay them better, and then they can be better accounted for for for for efficiency and better organization, but this is not the way we're gonna do it, and we're gonna keep organizing, and we're gonna put people back and forth. LMP can't accept that. Thank you.
u2017-06-14-74	Thank you. We now return to the normal speeches. I give the floor to notary Nándor Gúr.
u2017-06-14-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For a few reasons, I have to get out of the framework of the draft law, in line with the words of Congresswoman Mónika Dunai; but I will not spend much time there, I promise to my fellow Members. What Edith Sebestyán said, I will not repeat it. I've prescribed something similar to the 100-year structure. So, that doesn't mean that it really doesn't mean that anyone is continuing to use methods from a hundred years ago, it hasn't happened in the past or in terms of retirement benefits. But only because, Mónika Dunai, you are able to correct in yourself the issues that I think you are mistaken about: look at the issues concerning the existence of the value-proofness of pensions in the last week, now in the eighth year! Look at the fact that today a full pension can be established in Hungary for a person who produces at least 20 years of service. The productions of 20 years of service, i.e. today, a pension rate of HUF 28 500 can be established. I'll let you know, seven years ago, unchanged. Seven years ago, a penny did not increase the total pension minimum combined with a minimum of 20 years of service. It is no coincidence that all of the opposition parties within the walls of Parliament, all of them, have been demanding that this be changed for years. The LMP talks about the need to double; no, the LMP is talking about reaching 50,000 forints. That's what we said two or three years ago. Today, we say that this needs to be doubled to provide a minimum basis for living. And you have done nothing in this regard for the eighth year now. I do not want to get deeper into this, I just want to say that you know that when, in this country, when the many pension rights have been abolished, people have been taken away from them, when hundreds of thousands of people receive benefits, not pensions, but pension benefits, where appropriate, between 28 500 and 50 thousand forints, there are some 74,000 people among full pensioners; and there are another 364 thousand people who receive pension-like benefits, who get such a sum every month. Between 28 500 and 50,000 forints. Once again, the basis for this is 28 500, the minimum pension in this regard has not changed by a penny in the eighth year. Now, here's the basic problem. The other thing we are talking about within the framework of the draft law is that integration within the framework of the Treasury - rape, centralisation - will bring what will bring, whether it will bring security or even uncertainty in terms of funding. [[14.40]] It's not the Treasury employees. No. The vast majority of these people are also overworked - prepared, but overloaded - and are not paid. And they're not paid. When we are talking yesterday about the issues of government officials, civil servants, and so on in the public sector, in the walls of this House, we are talking about the need to make changes in terms of wages today, we find, within the framework of certain legislative proposals, that no, we are not talking about increases in wages, but, where appropriate, about the withdrawal of supplements related to wages, salaries, 35 percent of higher education and 15 percent of secondary education, relying on and referring to the fact that, through career models, these funds are practically there and will be there for people. They are there, and they are partly true, and they will be there, and they will be uncertain. So the point of the story is that not only do you have to make demands on the multitude of people working within the MAK, for example, but you also have to give them the means to earn their jobs, the basis for a decent living. Now I will not go into how and how it has been - and how you say it is - the scale of wages over the past period. There's no synchronization of how it turned out, and what you're saying about it. Or two more simple things, and then I'll go back to the bill. It doesn't matter that when we talk about retirement age - which has suffered certain forced changes during a global financial and economic crisis - Fidesz and Christian democrats didn't do so when they were able to modify it in connection with a popular initiative. In December 2010, you had the opportunity and opportunity to make 62 years of retirement age, taking into account the content of the popular initiative that wanted to set the retirement age to 62, in terms of the 65-year retirement age for all, which is currently in effect from ., from 22 onwards, you would have decided to make 62, and you would not have done so. They didn't. They confirmed it for 65 years. It's not that they did this, no. The problem is that one year after that, all flexible retirement opportunities were eliminated. The problem is that the possibility of accident pensions, the possibility of invalidity pensions, has also been taken away from people. The problem is - and then I would line things up to see what else is wrong in this regard. While a relatively high retirement age was set, it was cemented in December 2010, while all the flexibility of the system was lained out. And as I said, not only in terms of the people before 65, but also in terms of, say, the teachers, remember, say, the doctors who had to suffer it as people working in the public sector, there was a period of these seven years that the possibility of continuing to work was not given to them, as we say, to others in the competitive sphere, and not to others, because the thing is that they either had a pension or a salary after 65. Of course, between the walls of this Parliament, I do not say in your benches that there are many people who enjoy pensions, and their entitlement to parliamentary membership, as well as monetary entitlements. Once again, I want to make it clear that what is important to society and to people is that, let's say, in every district, in smaller districts, there is an adequate supply of children or adults by doctors, which is not guaranteed today. And it is precisely because of these things that it is not guaranteed, because they take legal measures, legitimize, which prevent this process. Again, I just want to say that we should be more focused on this direction. When I say and put it in focus that we always put the interests of people who exist in society, who work their daily lives, in the best interest, I see that this is not what is in the crosshairs in your case. In your case, it's always something else, always something that's more narrow. Today, I do not see what this interest is in, let us say, in terms of this transformation, but in relation to what has happened to you in the last seven years, allow me, in a sense, assumptions to be made in this regard. One more thing only fits in with the questions you've raised. Here you are talking about the issue of the,, women's 40, in connection with the operation of the pension and pension system, and in connection with the restructuring of the financing background. I get it. It's okay. I think you're denying what you've said and what you've done in terms of the woman's 40. But not only do I think I do, but I do. Unfortunately. Think back. Remember what they said: they said that after 40 years of service, the ladies could retire. And remember what they did: after 40 years of eligibility, the ladies can leave. Dear Mónika Duna Congresswoman, You're aware of the difference between eligibility time and duty time, aren't you? It is quite clear to you that compliance with the marginal condition of eligibility is much more difficult than complying with the duty period? You do realize that many thousands of thousands of women have been deceived by what they have said and done, don't you? So, as far as Fidesz's truth is concerned, we're about here in connection with these cases. I will not go into further details, because I think that everything that has been systematically shattered over the last seven years is the taking away of all the rights that have been acquired over the last seven years, has been experienced by many, and hopefully people will think about it, and in 2018 they will confirm to you in relation to the elections. You know, it's -- it's not worth talking about, but it's worth talking about -- when social contributions and taxes are levied in Hungarian instead of contributions, you know the difference between that and the time of duty, don't you? You do realize that when you pay a contribution, you get an allowance? You do realize that if you pay taxes, you don't have any kind of liability to the tax for a particular government? You do realize that it doesn't matter whether the pension is a acquired right or a pension is not a story financed by someone's convenience, but a acquired right based on employment, based on contributions; it's not the same as the fact that in a Fundamental Law we strive to ensure that it is paid. When something is guaranteed and when something is at the level of ambition, it is not the same. [[14.50]] I would like to reiterate and confirm once again that I believe that the question of risks has a place between Parliament's walls in the period of such a structural transformation and centralization. He's got a seat. And we do expect answers to that, answers that can dull these fears, fears that arise as a result of risks, or even put them to rest. And once again, I would like to say that a structural change can not only mean centralization. Basically, structural transformation, according to my system of values, means that we are putting in place organisational systems that ensure the performance of specific tasks and guarantee that there is no problem or problem. And then let's not talk about the economy, because, as I said, compared to 2010, public tasks are not spent in absolute terms, but in proportion to 20% more, while welfare functions, which affect people, and much less. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-06-14-76	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai in a normal time frame.
u2017-06-14-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Please allow me to respond to some of the things that have been said. I'll start by thanking Nándor Gúr for using different terms now. If you had said so in your first speech, I think we could have saved you a lot of time. First, he said he was gonna endanger her, destroy her, eliminate her. Now he's used a phrase, and I think it's appropriate that it's risky. You think it's risky. That's your right. I think that in such a debate, the appropriate term is to assume something. They also used the term "supplied." 40 plus. My fellow MSZP Member, you have not supported any version of the 40 plus. But we have become accustomed to the fact that the MSZP in the government and opposition is saying something quite different and doing something different. When they're on the government, they're lost, they're pressed, and when they're in opposition, they're verbally giving or giving, if they have the chance, everything they can afford. I think that it is possible to come up with such arguments as to how much they would give if, when they govern, they had only done a tenth or a fraction of that. You say, my fellow Member, you assume that you will not receive a pension with the MÁK. Mr President, if this is the case, please inform us immediately. Until then, it's not a subject, it's not a matter. That's where they got it, and now they're gonna get it, and they're definitely not gonna feel anything from this change. It's a basic law. The Fundamental Law is our supreme law, our most important law. But this is not the only law of Hungary, but we have countless other laws and laws that guarantee pensions. Allow me to even go to 28 500 forints. That's a calculation basis for a certain minimum pension. That's not what people's pensions are for! It's a calculation basis with a lot of things tied to it. You don't have to look at how much the pension minimum is, you have to look at how much retirement is. It's two different things. Thank you very much, I think that this will be enough as a response. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-06-14-78	Thank you. I will now give the floor to the notary for a two-minute comment as soon as he arrives.
u2017-06-14-79	Thank you, Mr. President. I do not wish to add any more comments, which I would like to point out, because I see that Mrs Secretary of State does not wish to participate in the debate as she goes along. And for that matter, I'll tell you honestly, we can't talk about it, we can only hear ratings on the go, I really don't care. So the point of the matter, and I think it doesn't hurt, but it would be better if the ministers of state sat here so that the general debate could be discussed as we go along. I would also like to say with great respect the following in the titles of Mónika Dunai. Female 40. Let's record it again, they didn't do what they said. You said you could go after 40 years of service. And what did they do? Forty years of eligibility, ladies are allowed to leave under much more difficult conditions. That's one of them. The other one. During that period, we kept talking about the importance of flexibility, especially in raising the retirement age, and we often mentioned men 40 as examples, but not just us, but also better representatives and others on the opposition side. It's a basic law. With all due respect, please be kind enough to go over it again, because I think you've looked at it, but you've gone over it again to see what the guarantee is, and we're the difference between our efforts to ensure something. The last: the above-mentioned HUF 28 500 is the minimum of full-fledged pensions. Unfortunately, that means forints in the hands of a lot of people, this magnitude of forints. 74,000 people today earn a pension between 28 500 and 50,000 forints, and another 364 thousand for pension-like benefits. You know, where there's a pension at this level, because there's a small salary, and there's a pension at this level, it just leads these people to poverty. Well, that's what needs to be changed. I think that we have something to do together in this regard. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-06-14-80	Thank you. If there are no further comments, the general debate will be closed and I will give the floor to Secretary of State Katalin Veresné Novák to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2017-06-14-81	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I am not surprised that we are slowly going to be left alone in this debate, and neither is the fact that Mr President's comments were so invaluable that we could basically get used to it. I grew up in an environment where when a woman drops anything, a man comes up to her and raises her, not speaks to her in a completely unqualified style. So much for how much they participate in the debate or how much the LMP fraction participates in the debate. It is surprising to me that the people or parties who consider this issue so important do not even respect the Parliament or the debate that is taking place here to be represented at all. But I intend to do so only as an introduction. I am trying to give the Members, who have persisted, a meaningful answer to the questions that arise, and I would like to respond to some of the things that have been said from the mouths of the Members sitting in the MSZP and the LMP benches, just for the sake of the minutes. Although Mr Korózs got out quite quickly - after he told us what he had to say, he wasn't really curious about the rest of it - I would very much like to remind him that he might take the trouble and read the report, so I would remind him where we started in 2010, what inheritance they left us, not just after being wasted, but after a completely catastrophic year. If we look only at the pension system, because we do not look at public debt, let us not look at the general state of the country's economy, its moral state, the state of politics that has been completely destroyed, but let us also look at the pension system: we can also say that they are not fundamentally thinking in a work-based society, they are not doing so now, but in a welfare-based society, this is closer to the thinking of the left. We cannot identify with that, we think in a work-based society. [[15.00]] So we have actually made changes in the pension system. But we can talk about how uncontrolled the early retirement system was at that time. However, it can also be said that the compulsory private pension funds actually functioned as sovereign debt companies when we inherited this situation from them. We can also say that, in the situation in which the pension system was in 2010, it would have been really unsustainable. And speaking of which records, what transparent, transparent system there was, there is or there will be, I can say that the pension system was not transparent at all. There was no record of which we have now sought to establish. So we did not start from an easy situation; there have been very few things compared to this either in order to restore or preserve the stability of the pension system. Also, we have introduced the 40, which I would already say to Congressman Gúr if he were here. [[Nándor Gúr stands up from the notary seat and bows down.]] In my memory, when you're there in 2011, thank you very much, great; I didn't see you, I'm sorry, I just saw you leave; then I'll tell Congressman to see you. What I remember you said in 2011 about the Women's 40, that no one will be able to make use of it, is this, Women's 40, there are 170 thousand rebuttals to this statement, as I can say in many of your statements. I apologize for not seeing you, but I'm rehabilitating the fact that you're not represented by the MSZP, because that's what you're doing. What's going on? What is this about, once again, in the current law salad, in our current proposal? We're not gonna charge you anything. We didn't plow anything. We don't centralize, we don't centralize. I wouldn't use those terms. We're not gonna break anything, especially a well-functioning system that's not 100 years old, and I wouldn't talk about it. We are talking about creating a more logical, transparent, transparent, more efficient, functioning system, which, not least, brings us closer to the citizens, making the administration closer to those who are actually dealing with matters. This is also the case of the relocation of a number of cases to district offices. There will be no new office, since the Hungarian Treasury takes over various tasks. And I would like to highlight one more thing that has not been discussed in this debate. József Mészáros, Director General, is sitting here in Parliament, who also oversees this transformation as a government commissioner. On the one hand, I would like to add that he has worked as a specialist in the field of science for 20 years, specifically in the field of pensions, for 10 years as Director General, or has led the National Directorate-General for Pension Insurance for 10 years, so I believe that his expertise, expertise and commitment are unquestioned. I would like to say the same about all the employees of the National Directorate-General for Pension Insurance who are doing extremely high-quality work, just like our colleagues. The whole transformation was also conducted and supervised by the Commissioner General, who also represented the professional standards and professional expectations. I consider his person to be, above all, a guarantee that the process of this transformation is the best possible direction. And I'd also like to thank you for your work. But I can also say that the National Pension Insurance Directorate is generally characterised by high-quality administration, high-quality work, as well as by experts working at the Ministry of Human Resources or the Ministry of National Economy. That is why it can be said that the transfer of pensions or family allowances or benefits here is still smooth. Such questions have been raised as to whether we expect savings from this measure; I would also like to respond to Mr President's suggestion. Here, I consider savings to be understandable even if this does not involve redundancies, it does not entail redundancies, if it does not involve slimming down an organisation - as is the case in this case, since the employees of the National Pension Insurance Directorate will work in the future within the framework of the Hungarian Treasury - but if, at the same time, more tasks can be done more efficiently from resources and with the same amount of effort. That's what this rationalization is all about, that's what this transformation is all about. I mean, even if it is already possible to address matters closer to the clients on the ground, by having a single central professional management, I think it is in our interest that all of us be able to work with the same professional standards for staff in district offices, or anywhere for staff in government offices. We also have the opportunity to standardise and centrally organize the IT system, which will also result in a more efficient operation. I would also add that the preparation of this transformation has been taking place since 5 July last year and is known, so we couldn't say we're in a hurry to do anything from one moment to the next. This is a nearly one-year process, so it was a well-known fact, and we talked about it many times. The transformation is at a well-defined pace. So I would ask everyone, all opposition representatives, all opposition groups, not to create hysteria, not to threaten, not to intimidate people with the risk of their pensions, that their family support is in danger, that they will not receive any money due to them in time. After all, as has been the case so far, it will continue to be guaranteed, every pension, every family allowance or social benefit transfer will continue to be guaranteed in the future. Although Congresswoman Schmuck is no longer here, I have partly responded to her suggestions. Here, I might add to what he has said, that so far certain matters have only been dealt with in Budapest, which can now be dealt with locally; I believe that this is not against anyone's interests. I would also ask him not to intimidate people with what they don't have or to paint all kinds of emergency scenarios when there's no real basis for that. What I can tell you is that every guarantee element of the transition, the transformation, can be found. I must return to the words of the Member here, because I must say, Mr President, in addition to the style and manner in which he spoke, I must also say that he was not telling the truth. And he didn't tell the truth many times. I'd only like to highlight two of these. One is that you say that we have raised the retirement age. In Hungary, as far as I know, there have been two increases in the retirement age since 90. This is linked to the names of two persons, two prime ministers: one is called Gyula Horn and the other is called Gordon Bajnai. I don't know if any of them are connected to the Fidesz government. So I'm asking you to look into this information, not to claim anything that isn't true. We didn't raise it, we didn't decide to raise the retirement age. These decisions were made two times after 90, in a manner linked to these two prime ministers. And the other is how we would take anyone's pension; the other, which is even more painfully untrue, is that he said that recently it was very typical that pensions did not arrive, it is a regular thing. There's no such thing, Congressman. There is simply no such thing, it is not true. Pensions arrive in good order to those affected, to those entitled. I'm gonna need you to check that statement, too. I do not think that we are doing anyone any good by creating a bad mood in Hungarian people with false statements. As far as savings are concerned, that is also what you asked us, Congressman, I would add that, in my memory, when we came to government in 2010, public debt was 82 percent. I do not know on what basis we can call saving a period that preceded this state of the economy. Since then, we have been working to reduce this sovereign debt and to reduce and reduce the inherited burdens that the Hungarian people continue to moan about, thanks to irresponsible previous governments. To conclude, I would like to say to you that I would like to reassure all Hungarians that they will not even feel this transformation, because this is about us being able to deliver to Hungarian people all the benefits that will belong to the Hungarian Treasury even more rationally, more effectively and professionally. These benefits will continue to arrive in the future, as they are now on time. So I would ask the fellow Members, the Members and the ladies to support this bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-14-82	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. We now have an after-the-meet speech. After the agenda, Mr János Pócs applied for a debate on the Public Education Act on a professional basis. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-06-14-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Sometimes you have to say the words, because no one remembers the thoughts. I have no habit of responding to the unfounded claims of our political opponents, but Jobbik's communication has recently crossed a line. As a family person, as a Christian, I do my best for people with disabilities, because there are situations in life that cannot be measured by the means of politics. This is the situation for people with disabilities, but only assistance can be involved. We need to talk about what connects us, not what separates us. I believe that all benevolent, normal people, regardless of party standing and political sympathy, think the same way. [[15.10]] For some time, Jobbik has been talking about our vote to amend the Public Education Act; they call it the Taigetos Act. As far as I'm concerned, I really voted in favour and would do it again. This amendment does not exclude children with disabilities from education, but, on the contrary, gives them a chance. It raises them out of their difficult position, sees them as equals with their peers, promotes their social integration. And it is important to note that the amendment does not affect students with special educational needs, disabled, dyslexic, dysgraphy, discalculative students. Parental and educating reactions returned to us are favourable, and the majority understood that the amendment of the law is a major step forward in terms of the chances of education and employment for those in need. And not only they, but also the representatives of the professional organizations who initiated the amendment of the legislation: the Association of Hungarian Teachers, the Association of Hungarian Logopédes, the Hungarian Federation of Phonetics, Foniatry and Logopédia, the Budapest Pedagogical Services, the ELTE Gusztáv Faculty of Medicine, the EGYMI Association, the National Pedagogical Professional Service of ELTE, and representatives of several county specialist services. Ladies and gentlemen, The government, the politicians of Fidesz, are always happy to discuss professional and policy issues if that conversation makes sense. However, there is little room for meaningful dialogue with Jobbik. There is a level in politics that must not go below. Jobbik wants to gain popularity from sympathy for people with disabilities. In my taste, however, you must not climb the backs of those who are more difficult and disadvantaged. With an uninhibited, inhumane attitude, Jobbik touches the most sacred things in life over and over again and proves to be unfit for the trust of the community. In the name of the accuser Jobbik, I will also follow the disabled in our country, the Jászság. I'll do it because they won't do it. At the same time, I assure the Hungarian people, as they can count on us so far. That's what we do, that's what we do, to help the disabled and the disabled, the whole community. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Aren't you ashamed?]] You guys should.
u2017-06-14-84	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The National Assembly will resume its meeting tomorrow at 15 o'clock. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 3:14 p.m.]]
