u2017-05-30-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 31st day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and István Ikotity will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, On behalf of Ms Ágnes Kunhalmi, the Hungarian Socialist Party, on behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party, she applied for a pre-meeting address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-05-30-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In 1951 Hungary decided to celebrate teachers on the first Sunday of June each year. Then we draw attention to their important role, their blessed activities, which they do every day for the children, for the future of the whole country. Teachers may have the most important role to play in what country we will live in tomorrow. That is why they should be given priority support. Teachers know that knowledge is mainly today, the 21st century. In the century, knowledge means bread, work, knowledge means livelihood, prosperity, and happiness. Knowledge is transformed into XXI. In the century, today, even more, and faster than ever before. To do this, everyone has to adapt, teacher, not teacher. The teaching course is not only a transfer of knowledge, but also spirit and love. Each teacher is an individual, full of creativity and love. They also do hard spiritual and neural work every day. Therefore, all teachers can only fulfill themselves, so they can do the work they have chosen for themselves for life, if they are free, sovereign, and receive help. Today, in 2017 no educator in Hungary should not be able to be independent, nor can he - because he does not get any supportive environment - work in a supportive environment. In 2017 in Hungary, a teacher tries to focus on children in the net of power, but he can hardly do this in a silly, illogical, centralised system, either free from daily threats or watered with party political ideology. When you think about the enormous burdens they have put on teachers in the last seven years, how they have been slylyly increasing their hours, forcing unnecessary administration for extra work, they get almost nothing; when you think about how they have been forced into the unteachable and unteachable national basic curriculum, in which they have greatly damaged the freedom of teaching, that they have been forced to do nothing by silly, useless textbooks... - today, in 2017, 98 percent of teachers say that they cannot use public textbooks. But there's the wages they raised. But there are not many professions in the country where employees essentially have to buy paper, paint, chalk, and other educational tools for a large part of their paid salary. This shiny wage increase doesn't look so shiny anymore. The directors are demoted, disdained, considered stupid, not considered fit to run an institution. Both their management and employers' rights have been taken away. And when we look at higher education, they basically sent political commissaries to the chancellors, thereby reducing academic and teaching freedom. The Hungarian schools have lost their personality and specialty in the last seven years. In this centralized system, the child is lost, and unfortunately, the teacher is lost. You see the school as a brick, you see the children as nerds, and you see the educators as an arsehole. But, dear fidesz, the school is not just a brick, it's a sensitive, sensitive community with a soul, and this soul is being killed every day. In 2018, if the majority of voters vote for confidence in the new Botka government, we will reduce the burden on teachers and we will also financially recognise quality work. We're reducing the children's overload. We're shutting down the KLIK. We're gonna eliminate the stupid state emancipation books. We will also give back the autonomy of schools, the powers of school directors. We're going to put an end to the chancellor system that acts as political commissaries. We give back the freedom of teaching and academic freedom. We will restore the system of normal, democratic reconciliation and, above all, we will create a creative, modern school in Hungary. Thanks to the educator. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-05-30-2	Thank you, Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2017-05-30-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I think, as Teacher Day approaches, the good wishes that go towards teachers are getting more and more frequent. From here on in Parliament, too, we should thank you for the work you've been doing for a lifetime, since those who start the course as educators will be working as teachers for the rest of their lives, or at least for the rest of their retirement years, and will try to benefit children. We have heard the Botka government's proposals on what will happen here if the Socialist Party can re-direct education. Although education has so far been abandoned and handed over to their liberal coalition partner, this can be seen in their achievements. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: The KDNP didn't do so well either!]] But let us not forget what the socialists and liberals gave to the Hungarian teachers. 15,000 teachers were dismissed when restrictions were needed. They locked up 180 school buildings, assignment places, and closed the schools, and from there they must have sent the children to another school, to another settlement. [[Zoltán Grimlock: How many have you opened?]] This happened in 180 cases, and obviously teachers were expelled from all such schools. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You haven't opened a single one!]] When our aim is to provide children with the same education, whether in a small settlement or in a large settlement or in good conditions, well, in this case, if that is the goal, it is contrary to what the socialists have done when students have been deprived of the opportunity to study locally in more than 180 places, and at the same time 15 thousand teachers have been dismissed from the teaching field. [[Zoltán Grimlock: How much of this have you brought back in eight years?]] But those who stayed were not thanked for the socialist government either, since they took a month's wages from teachers. Minus one month's wages, this was the career that the socialists offered to the Hungarian teachers. [[9.10]] We have heard that they would return to the path of privatization, once again giving back the textbook expenditure that was previously in national hands into the hands of market players, which has brought nothing else in Hungary in the first place but a price drive and an even greater burden on children's parents. We recall that here they may be talking about academic freedom in the case of higher education, but they have indebted the institutions, they have included universities and colleges in a PPP scheme that has cut their farming freedom to a very large extent. On the other hand, the 2018 budget provides HUF 81 billion in surplus for education. Obviously, those who take responsibility for education, vote for this 81 billion, who are not responsible, will not vote for this 81 billion for the education system. Our goal is to create a career for teachers with good skills on the teaching field, because in this case, our main goal can be achieved, so that children acquire knowledge that is educational on the one hand, so it also provides them with a kind of moral posture, and, on the other hand, knowledge that is flexible, adaptable, usable, and helps them to thrive on the labour market. That's why we started the Klebelsberg Scholarship, which is why we're trying to attract as many young people as possible to teaching courses. The result is that the number of teachers has increased by one and a half times. The socialists were only able to achieve this with an inverse omen, and their number of candidates for the teaching field was reduced, and now it's growing. This obviously has an important role to play in the overall increase in teachers' wages by 50 percent in recent years, even this year. This extra wage is obviously also a confirmation for many to stay on the teaching track, and it is a worthy appreciation for teachers in a material sense, beyond the fact that we are obviously unable to emphasize appreciation on these days, even as teachers' day approaches. The National Teacher Faculty has been established, which is a representative of educators. A round table for public education was established, which enabled them to make their proposals, and everything that was important in terms of administrative burden reduction or to help students and teachers work in a different way. These are the results of the last year, the largest teacher's wage increase programme, the largest career, since such incentives and wage increases have not been directly in Hungary to teachers since the change of regime, as has been the case here. However, a large number of teachers need the possibility of further training, the possibility of their own training. We are confident that we can continue to guarantee this to a good standard. We have abolished the socialist-liberal system that has marketed it, that it also considered textbooks to be a business, that it also considered pedagogical further education to be a business, and that nothing else was dealt with, only what they could include in the teacher's further education system. On the other hand, universities are now training teachers because it is not profit that is important to us, but it is important that teachers actually receive higher education where they have obtained their degrees and are able to provide students with the most up-to-date knowledge. For students who are now going to go to 1-9th grade from 1 September to the free textbook [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] for whom we have extended the possibility of a free meal, and in addition to that, you can participate more at reduced rates during the summer holiday. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-30-4	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck also spoke before the agenda, with the title "Renewal energy and energy efficiency" instead of the enlargement of Paks. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-05-30-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Instead of Paks expansion, green energy and energy efficiency. That's all it takes to get the Hungarian economy back on track. As surprising as it may be, a large part of this is included in the 2010 Fidesz election programme and the then government programme, and I quote, a national energy efficiency programme would boost construction, renovating 10 percent of the housing stock every year would create 80,000 construction jobs, and this investment would pay off the country in less than ten years, as well as solving our environmental commitments. I mean, you know exactly what to do, but you're not doing it. Every year, only pennies are spent on energy efficiency renovations. We'd rather heat the street, and it'd be expensive. The Hungarian energy prices are in vain in the European middle field, once an average Hungarian household spends 1.5 times as much on energy as an Austrian, and not on payments in Austria, but on payments in Hungary. One third of Hungarian families still live in energy poverty, i.e. they are forced to freeze in winter because they do not have enough money for heating. You are aware that despite building a new nuclear power plant, the two Russian reactor blocks will not help this problem. It can't help, because the calculations submitted to the Commission show that electricity will not be cheap, but more expensive than today's prices. It wouldn't help even if it produced a little less, because there's nothing more expensive than the energy we pay for the first time, and then we let it out the walls and the window. Ladies and gentlemen, If a country really needs cheap energy, jobs and energy independence, then it is not a nuclear power plant that needs to be built, but the limitation of solar and wind power plants, and not the promotion of loss of nuclear energy, but the modernisation of homes. With insulated walls, modern windows and saving heating systems, energy consumption at home can be reduced by half. This is much more than can be achieved by any political regimeanipoulation. 80,000 new jobs in the market are more than all governments have managed to create together since the change of regime. These jobs could reach settlements where no economic development programme has ever reached in 27 years and where, of course, they would not detect anything from the construction of a possible nuclear power plant. You guys say there's no money, but you know that's not true. The true statement is that investors are lining up for green energy investments and would be happy to spend their own capital on it if administrative barriers did not hinder them. But you do not even want to give people the 130 billion forints that the European Union would provide specifically for non-refundable support for the energy efficiency modernisation of homes. [[9.20]] We, on the other hand, found 4,000 billion forints for the purpose of your election and government program. Each family can receive a HUF 1 million non-refundable grant from the state to renovate their home. Everyone wins, saves so much energy that Paks II. you will not need to build it. We didn't make that up either. We read it in one of the hundredth's studies. In addition, you don't have to spend the money immediately, because only 10 percent of the apartments need to be modernised every year, energy dependency is reduced, tens of thousands of new jobs are created, housing stock is valued, and everyone can live in a nicer, more modern, warmer home, half the size of the heating bill they used to be. This is a very simple choice: two Russian nuclear reactors for 4 thousand billion forints, a temporary few thousand jobs, as well as decades of dependence on Russia and more expensive energy than now; or a million forints of help for each family to modernise their homes, 4 million refurbished homes, 80,000 jobs across the country, split energy bills, a cleaner environment, developing Hungarian economy, a better life and clean green energy, without public spending. Which one do you think the country would be better off with? If you do not know, take an example of Switzerland - there you dare ask people. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-05-30-6	Thank you, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Aradszki, State Secretary, responds to what has been said.
u2017-05-30-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for your valuable suggestions, because I have the opportunity to clarify a few misunderstandings, one or two impossible claims arising from non-observation. In 2011, the Hungarian Parliament adopted the national energy strategy, the main aim of which is to ensure that domestic energy supplies are secure, operate in a sustainable manner in the long term and thus serve the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy. One important element of this was the need to strive to reduce our energy dependency and to define the energy mix we are thinking about meeting these goals of energy supply - security, sustainability and competitiveness. This energy mix consists of maintaining the capacity of nuclear energy, increasing renewable resources and using our existing coal, i.e. lignite, as appropriate and appropriate. Since then, the debate has been primarily about how nuclear energy can be replaced, and green movements, including LMP, strongly say that we do not need Paks II. investment, instead from renewable sources, ensure an energy system that can ensure security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness. Compared to this, it is remarkable what the cost of energy supply from purely renewable sources, or at least the part of Paks II, would be. This would mean replacing it. In the case of solar power plants, this investment would amount to HUF 16 200 billion and in the case of wind power plants between HUF 3800 and HUF 5000 billion. That means Paks II. It could be replaced by four times the amount of solar panels, while in the case of wind power plants with a minimum of two times the amount, so that we would not replace or manage the risks arising from the change in weather conditions. Each energy policy is decisive in terms of the country's potential. The European Union's energy policy, the Energy Union, also goes towards and accepts that countries are free to choose their energy mix, because they are not the same in terms of countries, they are not the same in terms of the use of wind power, they are not the same in terms of geothermal energy and, of course, they are not the same in terms of solar power. I must add that, after the Energy Union targets a market-based energy system, in this case, I have to say that wind power plants operating 10-12 percent in Hungary must compete with offshore, so-called offshore wind power plants, which operate at 20-22 percent utilisation. So this competition has been decided from this point of view. If Hungary wishes to secure its energy supply at competitive prices, it is necessary to turn to solutions that produce stable, long-term, high utilisation and cheap. At the moment, one of the elements of this system is energy production from nuclear energy sources. Of course, the use of renewable systems by the Hungarian government is not excluded or even supported. This also indicates that by the end of 2016, 2.1 gigawatt renewable solar system applications were submitted to the Office, and that energy efficiency, of course, has an important role to play in the security of energy supply. The Hungarian government grants a non-refundable and reimbursable grant of HUF 768.4 billion to this end, and the proposals announced in the framework of the programme "Home Hotness" will reach the population in order to increase energy efficiency, and Hungary will, of course, undertake to meet the goals required by the European Union in terms of energy efficiency, and we will do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-30-8	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, From the Jobbik Group, Member Márton Gyöngyösi has applied for a speech before the agenda:.Bérunion: an economy based on predictability, knowledge and solidarity instead of wage slavery. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-05-30-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik has achieved historic success by adopting and registering the citizens' initiative with the international alliance of Jobbik, bringing together eight countries in Central and Eastern Europe to catch up on wages. With this, a historic struggle, a new era, a real freedom fight for higher wages, for more competitive Hungarian businesses so that everyone can thrive in their own homeland. Jobbik has already achieved more than the governments of the last 27 years combined, since it is possible to start a collection of signatures, a pan-European referendum on this issue. The Fidesz and MSZP governments are jointly responsible for the state that, 27 years after the change of regime, 13 years after our accession to the European Union, there are basically two possibilities for a graduate or professional Hungarian youth: either migration to the West in the hope of a better life, or staying at home, which is synonymous with poverty and debt. The change of regime and our accession to the European Union started with the political conviction of a better life, a higher standard of living, the promise of Hungarian society, the promise of catching up with the West, but today the Hungarian public states are marked by a break-off, not only in relation to the West, but also in relation to the Central and Eastern European region. It is therefore the wrong economic policy, which started with privatisation, by squandering our national assets, and by the unscrupulous supply of foreign capital to domestic businesses by the political elite, and at the expense of domestic businesses, which basically lured foreign capital here with tax incentives. That's what's going on right now, and the one-digit corporate tax testifies to that. State aid was granted to multinational corporations, and today the government still pays HUF 12.6 million for a major employment of a multinational, and economic policy is based on low wages, and every day attempts are made to lye the Hungarian labour code and thus create a slave society in this country. To this day, the Orbán government has reduced this country to a assembly plant. In addition to bad economic policy, there was also a failed cohesion policy, which is the joint responsibility of the European Union and the Hungarian political elite, because although the aim was to catch up, this was not realized, in exhausted visual investments, which are essentially for political purposes, and in corruption, which served the purpose of economic culture building. [[9.30]] Jobbik's Wage Union initiative launches a social dialogue at the same time at home, in Central and Eastern Europe and throughout Europe on a national issue of fate, and with this Jobbik Hungary Movement and its allies have also entered into the debate on the future of the European Union. While Viktor Orbán is doing everything in his power to lead Hungary out of the European Union, Jobbik outlines his ideas about the future and reform of the European Union. You can clearly see that the Jobbik Can't swallow or spit out this initiative [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks. Dr. Répássy is applauding Robert.]] He's been talking nonsense ever since this success was brought together by Jobbik. János Halász already sees migrants on higher wages, László Kövér talks about Brussels' desire to take away the only Hungarian competitive advantage based on Hungarian low wages, and Viktor Orbán continues to talk about the fact that we want to transfer tax and wage policies to Brussels. Fidesz, through its paid media and experts, is trying to derail this issue, and is trying to see all kinds of things in this initiative that are not included. The increase in wages would not happen overnight. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Why not?]] This is, of course, a long-term objective which seeks to correct 27 years of omissions. We want to support small and medium-sized enterprises through the elimination of corruption, the elimination of bureaucracy, the abolition of the administrative procedure, and the creation of a predictable rule of law. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Is Lajos Simicska a contractor? That's new.]] We want to serve the Hungarian economy first with national instruments and European Union policy instruments, by transforming state aid, transforming tax and contribution policies and transforming EU funds. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-30-10	Thank you, Congressman Gyöngyösi. On behalf of the Government, Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary, will respond.
u2017-05-30-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I think he told the truth towards the end of his speech. If I quote it correctly and note it well, the Jobbik cannot swallow or spit out any of the suggestions made by Jobbik, which are no longer your own words, of course, out of the question, which he brings up from week to week. It should be said that it is time that Jobbik took account of real relations rather than big speeches on the EU wage initiative. There have been groups in Hungary, parties and governments that have spent non-existent money, the consequences of which have been suffered by the country around 2010. However, it is also very important to say that when we asked you, in connection with the debate day, what you also initiated with regard to wages and employment, how you imagined the implementation of your wages in the Union, you could not answer this issue in substance. So it is likely that illusions are being formulated, including by believing that if a European referendum is established, it will raise wages. He's not gonna raise wages, and you know it. Wages depend essentially on the total income generated in a given national economy, so the increase in wages can only be achieved if they are also covered. Without cover, wages cannot be raised, or there are very, very high risks, we already have experience of this. It would be good for the Member and his party to recognise that wage increases are fundamentally decided at the level of employers and businesses, and the government, of course, supports the increase in wages and has proved this in recent years with its actions. But he always does so carefully, within the limits of opportunity. To give examples of this, I would like to highlight the results of the wage negotiations in November 2016, where we have indirectly intervened in each increase in wages by setting the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. And we have significantly intervened directly in the process of raising wages. It doesn't make sense that you're talking about wage slavery. Let's look at what has happened to real wages since we came to the government in 2010. Until last year, real wages have increased by almost 24 percent in Hungary and in its dynamics to a much greater extent than in the Central European countries, with family-friendly policies leading to real wage growth exceeding 50 percent in families with three and more children. This year, in the first quarter of the year, real wages increased by 8.2 percent compared to the same period of the previous year, which means about a month's extra wages. This also shows that wages are rising due to the impact of domestic policies, employment policies and wage policies, as well as economic policy measures. Congressman also spoke of a lack of predictability. I ask you then if you have heard of this particular agreement, which mentioned not only the increase in wages for two years in advance, not only the agreement in the wage increase, but also a significant tax reduction on wages. This means that in 2017 there was a tax reduction of 5 percentage points and the tax burden on wages will be reduced by another 7 percentage points in the following year, i.e. in 2018. [[Martin Gyöngyösi intervenes.]] And if certain conditions are met, this tax reduction on wages will be achieved for another four years. Meanwhile, he told me here, you couldn't hear in a microphone that the predictability wasn't that we agreed on certain terms for two years in advance. He also says out loud now that this is happening before the elections. They did not observe what I said last time: for four years in advance, the government decided that there would be a tax reduction, not an election year, but for the first, second, third and fourth years after the election year. Again, they do not want to listen to the answers we give to certain problems. So I'm asking you to put your thoughts on the ground of reality in addition to any illusions. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-30-12	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Cseresnyés. Imre Vejkey, Member of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also submitted a speech before the agenda with the title "Remembrance to Hungarian Heroes." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-05-30-13	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, To understand our present and to give proper answers to our future, we need to remember our history, remember our heroes, to see their struggles and their sacrifices as examples. Ladies and Gentlemen, Each generation has its own cross and responsibility. Who becomes a hero and who stays a coward decides who takes his cross on his shoulders and who doesn't. Our ancestors took up the cross and became heroes; those who were an example of the generations to come. Therefore, glory and respect for the Hungarian heroes. Dear Heroes! From you we've learned to get home first. We have learned that there is no hopeless situation for man, but there are brave and heroic people who overcome the difficulties. We have learned that the future of our country is not up to others, but to us alone. We have learned that patriotism comes from honor, honor from self-sacrifice, faith from self-sacrifice, and the resurrection and rebirth of Hungary. Ladies and Gentlemen, The examples of our heroes also show what the writing says: "If the grain of wheat does not fall into the ground and die, it will remain on its own, but if it dies, it will bring much fruit - John 12:24. Our heroes have died, but their shed blood has produced a thousandfold of crops, resulting in the fact that, despite so many trials, our country still exists after a thousand years. Ladies and Gentlemen, But we can't avoid the hot porridge, we have to say that, although our ancestors defended the country with their heroic sacrifice, we have lost two thirds of St. Stephen's country and one third of our compatriots because of the ploy of the great powers and the travesty of the communists almost a hundred years ago. [[9.40]] But we know that there is no resurrection without crucifixion. The fact that we are here means that Hungary is strong again, and is paying attention again to its past, so that it can understand its present and take possession of its future. The future to which our heroes predestinate us. Ladies and Gentlemen, They should know that the first country in Europe was our country, where the year 1917 was VIII. We've got laws against the commemoration of war heroes. The communist power abolished this because it believed that by Bolshevik's reign of terror everything that is sacred and everything that is national could be wiped out. But they couldn't win, because despite all their efforts, our greatest weapon, our faith, couldn't be wiped out of our souls, even if we paid for it with a bloodshed. The blood of martyrs is the dead grain of wheat that fell into the ground and hatched to produce a thousandfold of crops. It has brought us a crop that, after decades, we have reclaimed Hungary, restoring our national-Christian culture and respect for heroes. And since we've restored the respect of heroes, even though they're dead, they're still alive in our souls. Therefore, the valor and halo of our heroes is shining again in Hungary's sky today, because they are setting an example for us, they are expressing our national-Christian aspirations. Ladies and Gentlemen, We have arrived at an extraordinary historic moment when, under the authority of the Parliament's decision, we have built and on 10 June 2017 inaugurated the monument of Hungarian sailors in the naval cemetery of today's town of Póla, founded by the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy. The heart and the soul demand that, although almost a century late, but finally manifesting themselves in a monument, we pay our respects to our countrymen who died heroically for the Hungarian nation in the battles of the sea, as well as to all the sailors who fought for Hungarian freedom. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They did what they had to do then and there, and they could. Remember, the Hungarian Marines were heroes. [[The president's ringing several times.]] And they were so powerful that the world's greatest maritime powers had to count with them.
u2017-05-30-14	Thank you very much.
u2017-05-30-15	Let us be proud of our heroes, remember them, honoring their unselfish and faithful service to land and sea for their offspring. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-30-16	Please, fellow Members, do not put me in such a difficult position. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: I apologize.]] Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, will respond within five minutes.
u2017-05-30-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We should be proud of our heroes and our sailor heroes, as the number of Hungarians in the multi-ethnic navy of the Monarchy has never been negligible. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] At the time of the outbreak of the First World War, over 20 percent of the crew and a quarter of the cadets were Hungarian native speakers in some years of the Naval Academy, and this was the largest fleet of the fleet's age. When we want to account for the dead of our navy, thank God, we are not talking about thousands and tens of thousands, but every single life is a significant loss, and we have a duty to remember them. During the First World War, over 300 of our sailors lost their lives in naval service, combat, or as a result, and 22 sailors who died during military service in the Second World War continued to increase their numbers. They were not born heroes; they planned life, a future, work, vocation, family, and raised children. It wasn't a fight - they dreamed of being a decent human citizen. But when they were called upon by the homeland, they recognized the fragility of life in the compulsion of commitment, the courage of those in danger, and they sustained it. They became heroes because they sacrificed the most - their lives. This fleet was present in the far corners of the world, their ships traveled through several distant theatres of the age, so the burial sites of our sailor heroes can be found far away from Hungary, all over the world. Pula and Cattaro are Austria-Hungary's two large fleet bases, which are at the same time two of the largest burial sites. Pula is the large naval base, where the naval cemetery, also referred to as the Austrian-Hungarian cemetery, was established in 1862 by the Ministry of the Navy. In memory of the battleship, the dead and heroes of St. Stephen, the local Hungarians and the military gravekeepers of the Ministry of Defence presented a memorial plaque in the cemetery. Our other big base is the Bay of Cattaro in Montenegro. Here, the war gravekeepers of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence set a plaque in the Bay of Cattaro in memory of the 791 Austrian-Hungarian soldiers and Navymen buried here. Unfortunately, nothing else in this cemetery reminds us of our marines here, among whom are the Hungarian victims of the famous battle in Otranto. We remember the heroes of our thousand-year history on the last Sunday of May, as we did on Sunday the day before yesterday. From the booking of the house XXI. To this day and to the hundredth century, with victory, and defeat, but no victory, and no defeat, the living nation of this country. The Hungarians survived in the embrace of the Carpathians. But every century of history, in battles, wars, enslaved, obsessed, broken, freedom fights, and revolutions, human lives have been sacrificed, who we have a duty to remember and honor victims. We remember our heroes, our soldiers, who gave their lives in the line of duty for their country, their comrades, for their homeland. Our present-day soldiers, worthy of their predecessors, fulfil their obligations among the new challenges of the changing world, save in times of disaster, guard our borders, and peacemakers in allied missions. Because the main task of defence is to strengthen and preserve our national values with commitment, true to our national roots, traditions. Remembering national survival must be in the interest, and although our memory is full of faith, despite the tragic end, it is not black in grief. The loss is a test that must be endured, but our lost heroes give us strength and set an example for our offspring. Ladies and gentlemen, Home is not self-evident, and defence is not just a matter of soldiers. Defence is a matter for all of us, for the nation. Our soldiers protect the country at the border, and we can do it for the country by always standing up for Hungary with our opinions at all times. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-30-18	Thank you, Mr. Secretary Tamás Vargha. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Demeter, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a speech before the agenda:. Why doesn't the municipality of Szeged investigate the increase in Botka's wealth? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-05-30-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, this question would not be an issue of Parliament's interest, since it is an internal matter of a municipality's authority to account for its leader. [[Adam Mirkóczki: You don't see it right. Sit down, I think.]] However, given the fact that Mayor László Botka became the official candidate for Prime Minister of the MSZP the other day, it is advisable to examine his reliability and credibility more widely, now that he is seeking the country's leading position. Even the Fidesz of Szeged would have examined whether Mayor László Botka had any other assets other than the multimillion-dollar Rolex class he had forgotten to report on the hidden lake site, on the luxurious drive to his wife's name. However, the local majority on the left closed, the socialists and DK together prevented the candidate for PM MSZP from becoming uncomfortable. Meanwhile, the PM candidate of the MSZP makes vague references to the cooperation with the Democratic Coalition led by Ferenc Gyurcsány. In its narrower environment, Szeged, however, this pact has already been established, as the socialists, together with DK, have prevented the mayor from having to confess. [[9.50]] Yet László Botka was caught again, not only his car, his luxury vacations, but also his luxurious hours were left out of his declaration of fortune. According to the latest news, the mayor of MSZP has received two valuable apartments in Budapest from his parents. One is a 100 square meters in the V. district, and the other is an XIII. district 48 square meters of real estate, their total value is very high, it could be up to HUF 150 million. Don't take this the wrong way, it's not that your parents give you apartments, it's that you don't consider such wealth worthy of mention in the otherwise binding statement. From this point of view, it is fair to say that many would be interested to know how much László Botka's real estate could be if he simply forgot a few million-dollar hours, several million-dollar luxury travels, and a 25 million-dollar luxury car. If you look at the examples of Gyurcsány, Bajnai, Medgyessy, László Puch, Boldvai, Gábor Simon, you can also see that László Botka simply joined this line. And if you look at his latest promise, he'll surpass that by breaking the border lock, as he put it, the fence. However, this would put the safety of Hungary's citizens at risk. Let's just think that just by going around this fence and breaking through inside Europe, the planner and executioner of so many horrific attacks. At Röszka, they conducted a loudspeaker break in the fence and the police cordon. Today, after the Manchester assassination, we can see even more that this fence must not be broken down, but strengthened. And we trust that fence cutters will never be prime ministers in Hungary, or even candidates. In the light of all of this and in the light of the uncontested wealth increase, I ask how a person can be a person who, by endangering the safety of the Hungarian people, is a mayor of the city at the southern border of our country. So I repeat: why doesn't the Municipality of Szeged investigate the wealth growth of László Botka? Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-30-20	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Demeter. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás will respond to what has been said.
u2017-05-30-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is a natural need for citizens to ensure that all those who make decisions over public funds have a transparent and clean position in terms of wealth growth. For this reason, politicians, Members of Parliament, members of government, representatives of local governments, mayors and, in some cases, civil servants have an obligation to make a declaration of property in order; of course, the two are not the same. The establishment of the political declaration of assets, this system, which operates in Hungary, is recognised as one of the strictest asset declarations in Europe. It is very transparent, traceable, but obviously the exciting question is always how much the asset statement will stick to reality and how much it will provide information about its own financial situation. The 2011 Local Government Act states that the mayor should also be subject to the rules on the declaration of assets, conflicts of interest and indignity of municipal representatives. The municipal representative and the mayor shall make a declaration of assets after their election, and within 30 days of the 1st and 1st of each year. His own declaration of property must be accompanied by the declaration of property of his spouse, partner and his children living with him. In the event of failure to make a declaration of assets, he shall not exercise the rights deriving from his or her office as mayor until it is submitted, nor shall he, of course, be entitled to an allowance for that period. In the case of municipalities, the declaration of assets shall be registered and verified in the organisational and operational regulations by the designated statement of assets inspection committee. The municipal representative, mayor's declaration of assets is public in the public interest except for the identification data provided for the verification, so everyone can look into it. If necessary, the family members' declarations of property, or if requested, may be viewed by the members of the property statement review committee for the purpose of the investigation. It is important to point out that anyone can initiate a property declaration investigation. How representatives of a local government decide to examine a declaration of assets is clearly their political responsibility. In this case, I believe that the majority of the local government supporting László Botka worked against László Botka, because they prevented László Botka from clarifying the situation that surrounds him. With regard to the question of fence, border protection, border closure, honourable Member, I think that everyone who lives and sees the state of the country in Hungary sees the situation caused by the migratory pressure in this region, and is aware that people living in Hungary clearly want the country to be protected so that only valid travel documents through the country can be used legally to travel to the country. And obviously, we all agree that those who are being persecuted, who have a life situation that requires you to leave your country, in the nearest safe country in your country, your homeland, should be helped to survive the time that you can return to your own home. I do not think that today in Hungary it is possible to make political progress, and it is possible to make substantial progress by trying to break down border protection, fence and legal border closure in a way that endangers the security of Hungary. It is clear that it serves interests that are not in the interests of Hungary, but that it is in the service of an external client, something external. I am sure that Hungarian voters know exactly what their interests are. They obviously monitor the fact that those who test themselves in the election live a proper life, both in their own families and in their own environment, and serve the country, the Hungarian nation, with their policies. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-30-22	Thank you, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. We will now continue our work with decisions. Please check if your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2011 CCIX on water utility services. a decision on a proposal for amendment before the final vote on the bill amending law and a final vote. In view of the fact that the Parliament decided to postpone the final vote on 16 May, the national T/15057/11. A proposal for an amendment to the final vote was tabled. The proposed amendment of the Legislative Committee before the final vote T/1505/12. T/15057/13 and T/15057/13 before the final vote. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[10.00]] Now it's time for the decisions. Pursuant to Section 55 (1) of the House Rules, the Parliament shall decide on a proposal for amendment before the final vote by a single vote. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1505/12. The amendment tabled before the final vote. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament shall decide on the proposal for an amendment before the final vote on the basis of paragraph 1 of this Article by a single vote. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1505/12. The amendment tabled before the final vote. Please vote now! (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment before the final vote by 131 votes in favour, 34 against and without abstentions. After the Parliament has adopted the amendment before the final vote, we will decide on the amended single proposal in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the amended T/1505/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amended single proposal by 113 votes to 34 with 19 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The T/15053 on the amendment of individual laws to improve Hungary's competitiveness follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15053/10. T/15053/11. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the LMP Group, amendments 4 and 5 were proposed to be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 4 was proposed by Mr Benedek and Mr Ikotity. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 52 votes in favour, 114 votes against and no abstentions. Amendment 5 was proposed by Sallai R. Benedek and István Ikotity. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 109 against and without abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/15053/10. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 114 votes to 26, with 27 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15053/13. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 113 votes to 26, with 27 abstentions. Dear Parliament, A series of amendments to the laws governing the operation of financial markets and the trading of financial instruments for harmonisation purposes will follow, T/15347. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15347/4. and a summary report by T/15347/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/15347/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 119 votes in favour, 28 against and 22 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15347/6. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 119 votes in favour, 27 against and 22 abstentions. The 2012 CLXXXV on waste follows. T/15366. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15366/7. T/15366/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 2, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment No 2 and the LMP Group. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Lajos Kepli. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 25 votes to 114, with 28 abstentions. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr Benedek. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 27 votes to 114, with 27 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/15366/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 115 votes in favour, 30 against and 24 abstentions. Now, Honourable Parliament, the final vote follows. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15366/11. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 114 votes in favour, 49 against and six abstentions. Next up is T/15374 on the amendment of individual land laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. [[10.10]] T/15374/11. T/15374/12. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Article 4 (4) of the LMP Group proposed that amendments No 4, 5 and 6 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 4 is proposed by Mr Benedek. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 35 votes in favour, 113 against and 20 abstentions. Amendment 5 is proposed by Mr Benedek. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 112 against and without abstention. Amendment 6 is also proposed by Mr Benedek. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 111 against and without abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/15374/11. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 113 votes in favour, 36 against and 19 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15374/14. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 113 votes to 36, with 19 abstentions. It follows that T/15372 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the food chain. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15372/7. T/15372/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/15372.7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 113 votes in favour, 36 against and 19 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15372/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 131 votes in favour, 36 against and without abstentions. It follows that T/15375 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the integration of cooperative credit institutions follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15375/8. T/15375/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr Tóth Bertalan. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 35 votes in favour, 113 against and 18 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/15375/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 114 votes in favour, 35 against and 19 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15375/12. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 113 votes to 36, with 19 abstentions. T/15379 on the amendment of certain transport laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15379/6. T/15379/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/15379/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 113 votes in favour, 32 against and 23 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15379/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 131 votes to 31, with 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Next up is T/15369 on the amendment of certain health and health insurance laws. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/15369 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 134 votes in favour, 30 against and without abstention. [[10.20]] It follows the T/15376 on the regulation of education and the amendment of certain related laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15376/21. T/15376/22. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 10, 11 and 13 of the LMP Group, No 4 of the Jobbik Group, Nos 5, 7 and 8. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 10 is proposed by Ms Agnes Kunhalmi. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 110 against and without abstentions. Amendment 11 is also proposed by Ms Agnes Kunhalmi. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 112 votes against and no abstentions. Amendment 13 is also proposed by Ms Agnes Kunhalmi. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 109 against and without abstention. Amendment 4 is proposed by Mr István Ikotity. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 112 votes against and no abstentions. Amendment 5 is proposed by Mrs Dóra Dúró. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 26 votes in favour, 112 against and 29 abstentions. Amendment 7 is also proposed by Mrs Dóra Dúró. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 24 votes to 114, with 30 abstentions. Amendment 8 is proposed by Mr György Szilágyi and Mrs Dóra Dúró. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 20 votes in favour, 116 against and 30 abstentions. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/15376/21. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 113 votes in favour, 30 against and 24 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15376/24. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Dear Parliament, It follows from the 1997 CXL on museum institutions, public library provision and public education. Act T/15377 amending Act T/15377 and certain related laws Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15377/9. T/15377/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/15377/9. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 117 votes in favour, 30 against and 20 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15377/11. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 113 votes to 36, with 19 abstentions. Following is the 2008 XCIX on the promotion and specific employment rules of performing art organisations. T/15367. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15367/7. No T/15367/8 and its summary report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/15367/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 113 votes in favour, 30 against and 25 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the T/15367/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 113 votes in favour, 55 against and without abstentions. [[10.30]] It follows that T/15362 on the amendment of certain laws necessary to increase the legal competitiveness of the business environment will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15362/5. T/15362/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/15362/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 117 votes in favour, 28 against and 22 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15362/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 117 votes to 28, 28 against and 22 abstentions. Next up is the T/15361 on arbitration. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15361/7. T/15361/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 3, Jobbik's group proposed to maintain Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr Gábor Staudt and Mr Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 46 votes in favour, 112 against and 4 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/15361.7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 136 votes in favour, 6 against and 25 abstentions. Now it's time for the finale. We're gonna have to go for a ride. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15361/10. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 136 votes in favour, 2 against and 29 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday, the Parliament has already held a hearing on these matters. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles entitled H/14821 by Mrs Bernadett Szél and Mr Ákos Hadházy, MEPs with LMP on Russian disinformation activities against Western democracies. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the proposal for a resolution by 33 votes in favour, 113 against and 19 abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles entitled T/14733, by István Ikotity and Ákos Hadházy, MEPs of LMP, which bans propaganda financed by public funds and changes to public media spending. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not include the bill with 51 votes in favour, 115 votes against and no abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by the right-wing representatives of István Szávay and Gergely Farkas, H/14113. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with disciplinary decisions. I would like to inform you that the Speaker of the House is the 51/A Act on Parliament. According to paragraph 1 of Article 13 of the Act of Accession of the Republic of Croatia, the Court of Justice of the European Union shall have jurisdiction to rule on the application of Article 13 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Acting under the authority of Article 6 of the Act, dr. István Józsa, Sándor Szabó, dr. László Szakács, László Teleki, István Tukacs, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Zoltán Gőgös, Anita Heringes, Imre Horváth, Lajos Korózs, MSZP and Timea Szabó ordered a reduction in the due fees of independent representatives. Members asked the immunity committee to repeal the decisions, but the committee did not agree in either case. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP, including Anita Heringes: It was written in advance.]] Next, the Act on Parliament 51/A. Pursuant to Article 9 of the Act, Members have asked the Parliament to repeal the decisions of the Speaker. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP, including Anita Heringes: We asked for no dictatorship. Dr. László Szakács: Secretary of the Kolhoz.]] In view of this, the house rules are 148. H/15876, H/15877, H/15878, H/15875, H/15880, H/15883, H/15884, H/15882, H/15874, H/15879, H/158781. and H/15872. in figures, the same content as the previous decisions imposing a reduction in Members' due fees. [[10.40]] I would like to draw the attention of the Honourable Parliament to the fact that the proposals of the resolution, the related decisions of the Speaker, the requests of its representatives, and the decisions of the Committee on immunity have been made available on the website. Dear Parliament, In accordance with the provisions of the House Rules, no proposal or Commission report may be submitted to amend the proposals for decisions. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the case of a Member, the decision of the Speaker is annulled by the Parliament, the due fee of the Member is not reduced, the Act on Parliament 51/A. The proceedings brought against him pursuant to paragraph 1 of Section 1 shall be terminated. The Speaker's decisions on the reduction of the fee shall be decided by Parliament without discussion, separately for each representative. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the decision of the Speaker of the House to reduce the due fee of Dr. István Józsa is maintained in the scope of the H/15876. As per the proposal for a decision. [[Dr. László Szakács: Look here, party secretary!]] Please vote now. [[Vote. Dr. László Szakács: Kolhoz Party Secretary, dare you look here?]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament maintained the decision of the Speaker by 110 votes in favour, 54 votes against and no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the decision of the Speaker to reduce the due fee of Mr Sándor Szabó is maintained in the scope of the H/15877. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament maintained the decision of the Speaker with 109 votes in favour, 55 against and no abstentions. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP: Shame! Shame!]] I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the decision of the Speaker of the House to reduce the due fee of Mr László Szakács is maintained in the scope of the H/15878. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament maintained the decision of the Speaker by 110 votes in favour, 54 votes against and no abstentions. [[Dr. László Szakács: Kolhoz Party Secretary, don't you look here?]] I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the decision of the Speaker of the House to reduce the due fee of MEP László Teleki is maintained in the scope of the H/15875. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote. Interview in the lines of the MSZP: Flóri, at least take the Lacie!]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 111 votes against and 54 votes against, without abstention. [[Zoltán Lukács: You have failed to reduce the rent!]] I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the decision of the Speaker to reduce the due fee of Mr István Tukacs is maintained in the scope of the H/15880. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote. Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 111 votes in favour, 54 votes against and no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the House President's decision to reduce the due fees of Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély is maintained in the scope of the H/15883. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 112 votes in favour, 53 against and without abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the decision of the Speaker of the House to reduce the due fee of Mr Zoltán Gőgös is maintained in the scope of the H/15884. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 108 votes in favour, 54 votes against and no abstentions. [[Zoltán Lukács: Find those responsible immediately! The traitor is among them!]] I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the decision of the Speaker to reduce the due fees of Congresswoman Anita Heringes is maintained in its scope by H/15882. As per the proposal for a decision. [[Anita Beringes: I'm waiting for the verdict!]] Please vote now. [[Vote. Continuous noise in the lines of the MSZP.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 111 votes in favour, 53 against and without abstention. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. László Kács: Fake record!]] I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the decision of the Speaker of the House to reduce Mr Dezső H/15874 is maintained in its scope. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision without a vote [[Uproar and applause in the ranks of the MSZP and the independent representatives.]] 162 have been terminated without abstention and the proceedings against the Member have been terminated. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: You are traitors! They're traitors! Anita Herring: Isn't that embarrassing? The president's ringing the bell.]] I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the decision of the Speaker of the House to reduce the due fee of Mr Imre Horváth is maintained in its scope by H/15879. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament maintained the decision of the Speaker by 110 votes in favour, 54 votes against and no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the decision of the Speaker to reduce the due fee of Mr Lajos Korózs is maintained in the scope of the H/15881. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament maintained the decision of the Speaker by 110 votes in favour, 54 votes against and no abstentions. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP. Szabó Timea:... if I fill the world, will you release the punishment?]] I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament whether the decision of the Speaker to reduce the due fees of the independent Member of Szabó Timea is maintained in the scope of the H/15872. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 110 votes in favour, 36 votes against, without abstention. [[Interventions in the ranks of the MSZP and the independent representatives. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[10.50]] Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr László Földi to present the text of the adopted decision on the representatives of Dr. István Józsa, Sándor Szabó, Dr. László Szakács, László Teleki and István Tukacs. Mr. Messenger!
u2017-05-30-23	The Parliament is the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Act - hereinafter referred to as Ogytv. - 51/A. Dr. István Józsa, Sándor Szabó, dr. László Szakács, László Teleki and István Tukacs to the Members of Parliament of Ogytv. 51/A. On the basis of an application pursuant to Article 9 of the Rules of Procedure, Dr. István Józsa reduced the due fee of the Speaker of Parliament OE-40/402-1/2017. OE-40/404-1/2017. OE-40/405-1/2017. OE-40/407-1/2017. István Tukacs made a decision registered under number 1 and reduced the due fees of the Members of Parliament, István Tukacs, OE-40/409-1/2017. As a result, Dr. István Józsa, Sándor Szabó, Dr. László Szakács, László Teleki and István Tukacs will be reduced by HUF 50,000.
u2017-05-30-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr László Földi again to present the text of the adopted decision on representatives of Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Zoltán Gőgös, Anita Heringes, Imre Horváth and Lajos Korózs.
u2017-05-30-25	The Parliament is the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Act - hereinafter referred to as Ogytv. - 51/A. Acting under the authority of paragraph (13) of the Act, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Zoltán Gőgös, Anita Heringes, Imre Horváth and Lajos Korózs may be represented by Ogytv. 51/A. On the basis of an application pursuant to Article 9 of the Rules of Procedure, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély reduced the due fee of the Speaker of Parliament OE-40/397-1/2017. OE-40/398-1/2017. Anita Heringes, a Member of Parliament, made a decision on the reduction of the due fee of Anita Heringes, OE-40/399/2017. Imre Horváth's decision to reduce the due fee of the MP OE-40/401-1/2017. OE-40/403-1/2017. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Zoltán Gőgös, Anita Heringes, Imre Horváth and Lajos Korózs will be reduced by HUF 100,000.
u2017-05-30-26	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr László Földi again to present the text of the adopted decision on Mrs Szabó Timea.
u2017-05-30-27	The Parliament is the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Act - hereinafter referred to as Ogytv. - 51/A. Acting under the authority of the Parliamentary Representative of Szabó Timea in paragraph 13 of the Acting Acting Acting on the Rights of the Republic of Ogytv. 51/A. On the basis of the request made by the President of the National Assembly pursuant to paragraph 9 of Section OE-40/492-1/2017. He maintains his decision to reduce the due fee of the Parliamentary Member of Szabó Timea, thereby reducing the due fee of the Parliamentary Representative of Szabó Timea by HUF 249 292.
u2017-05-30-28	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill amending Act C of 2003 on electronic communications will follow until closure. Presentation by Fidesz MEPs György Balla and László Kucsák T/155557. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman György Balla, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-05-30-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In the context of this proposal, I propose that we look at the proposed legislation in three respects. First, let us look at the situation in the communications market, what they want to change, what is the reason for the amendment at all. The second thing that is worth examining is whether the proposal submitted is in line with the reasons and the objectives that we are trying to set, whether it helps consumers, whether it helps people. The third thing worth looking at is that, if the law is adopted, what is expected, because this service will be better, because it will be better for people, and it may also be worth responding to the criticisms expressed by the service providers. Let's look at the first question. The interesting situation, ladies and gentlemen, is that, while operators operating in the communications market do not perform poorly in a technical sense or in a quality, it is impossible to find or discover only traces of a customer who would be satisfied with his service provider. This is obviously because service providers talk about high horse to people, formulate dictatorships, not with the quality of the given program or service, they want to chain their customers, people to them, but with all kinds of contracts. In this market, which is undoubtedly developing dynamically, competition would play a major role. But how can we compete, how do we expect competition to help, for example, to lower prices, for example, to prepare service providers for better quality services if the service providers are actually doing their best to keep the competition to the minimum? This is what they do with so-called loyalty treaties. Unreasonably, they impose two-year loyalty contracts on their customers. They say if you make a loyalty contract, you get a discount - that's a lie. 'Cause the thing is, as much as a loyalty contract fee is, it's gonna make a lot of money for the service providers. The truth is, non-loyalty contracts are unfairly high. It is not, therefore, that any service provider would give a discount to any consumer if he committed himself under duress for two years. It is simply a matter of creating a situation in which the consumer can choose to sign a loyalty contract, since it would be priceless if he did not conclude such a fixed-term contract. [[11.00]] [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] However, if the current practice continues that a customer has to commit himself to his Internet service provider, cable provider and the rest, and even if his loyalty contract is over, he will only receive a normal price, an acceptable price, or a more acceptable price if he engages himself for another two years, then obviously we cannot talk about any competition on this market or there would be real competition on this market. However, if real competition cannot function, we cannot expect it to reduce prices or improve the quality of the service. This is the case today, which is the reason why we have tabled the amendment with my fellow Member. Now, if you will allow me, I would suggest that we take a concrete look at whether the proposed amendment will help this situation, the reason that I think people are seriously adversely affected today, whether it is able to eliminate it or at least point in the direction that this situation should change as quickly as possible. The proposal proposes to shorten to 12 months the maximum length of a fixed-term subscription contract, i.e. the so-called loyalty period of 24 months. My fellow Members have the right to ask why it will be possible in the future, even for a much shorter period, to have such a fixed-term fidelity contract. There's only one reason for that. We must no doubt accept that in the area of communications services, if a consumer chooses a new provider, in order to enjoy the service, there is a need for various installation procedures and investments, which, in turn, are rightly expected to be returned by service providers. But there's plenty of years to do that, and there's no need for 24 months of loyalty. This two-year loyalty period is for no other reason but to ensure that the provider knows precisely that he can do anything to the consumer for 24 months. You can do anything because, in practice, if you receive a service, there is no chance that you will be able to get out of the clutches of this service provider in a fair way. In the event that someone has served these two years of loyalty and has not changed service provider, because they think that otherwise the service they have received at the price they have received is appropriate for them, they should experience that after a while they will become more expensive. It will be significantly more expensive for the same service as before. Not only do service providers refuse to appreciate loyal customers, clients who are more loyal than they are required, but they are also being punished. They will only get the normal price if they commit themselves for another two years. What kind of a world is this, fellow Members? ! There is a consumer who performs honestly and pays the price of the service. There's no reason for the service provider to punish him. You should appreciate your loyalty to him, consider him an appropriate provider. But that is not what my fellow Members, the service provider, are doing, but simply punishing this consumer, and is only willing to give it back to him at a normal price if he is retiring for two years, even if he has done so for at least two years. I think that this would definitely record a situation that is in no way acceptable. There is obviously a need for an amendment whereby, after the expiry of a fixed-term subscriber contract, the consumer should not be more disadvantaged than if it were to arrive as a new subscriber. Therefore, following the adoption of the bill, if a consumer has served his fidelity with honor, he must receive from his service provider the most favourable package of services available at that time without any further commitment or future contract being concluded. It is also related to loyalty-time contracts, and it is a rather interesting situation if, for example, a cable-TV service makes a lot of programs out of the package, which I have chosen, for which I have concluded the loyalty-time, I still do not have the opportunity to switch providers during loyalty-time, to find the provider who is able to provide me with programs or programs that are important to me. I'm signing a contract completely different from what I'm getting later, and I still don't have the chance to cancel the contract and change the service provider. I think it's obviously not right. Therefore, the third element of the amendment is that if, during the loyalty period, the supplier changes the content of his service in any way, or even the content or the price of his service, the consumer can terminate his contract of fidelity without any adverse legal consequences. This is obviously not an obligation. It is good to record that the contract does not have to be terminated, the contract can be amended. But if anyone wants to watch any fairy tales, sports channels, or any thematic channels that get out of the package, then let's give people the chance to watch what they love, and that shouldn't be detrimental to them. You don't have to pay an enormous amount of money to watch the same show you love, and you have a contract. The fourth element of the amending proposal is the abolition of the eight-day notice period and the possibility of immediate termination. The eight-day notice period is nothing more than to allow service providers to pull a little more skin off the fox that has already been plucked enough. Because think about it, ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to change service providers, whether you are on television or on the Internet, you will be looking around the market, you will call your new service provider, you will discuss everything, and roughly, if you have the new tools, everything you need to be able to watch TV or use the Internet, and then you will terminate your service with your old service provider. After all, no one wants to be without the Internet or television for weeks or months. [[11.10]] In English, during the 8-day notice period, you otherwise provide the old service service without having to use it. Then why do you have to pay for it? Today there is plenty of possibility that the service provider will virtually exclude the customer from the service with one click, there is no reason why the termination should be immediate. So, ladies and gentlemen, I see that this proposal is clearly in line with the objective pursued, so it is worth supporting, but let us also look at what is expected after the adoption of the proposal. We should not be surprised, when the proposal was submitted, the service providers began to scream at that moment. By the way, that proves nothing but that we're on the right track. In each case, they threaten to raise prices. Any proposal that would, by the way, reduce the competitive constraints of service providers is being submitted, the service provider is threatening to raise prices at that moment. But let us ask the question: on this proposal, what title does any service provider have to threaten to raise prices? Nothing at all. This proposal does not contain any different burden, does not increase taxes, does not increase bureaucracy, does not increase service costs. If what the service providers say about themselves is true, and they are excellent, they provide a great service, then they have customers without any contract - do they not? Why would anyone change a service provider if they were otherwise satisfied with the quality of their service and the price? Nota bene, I can also say that if what service providers say about themselves in all kinds of commercials and wherever they are, is true, then this bill will be passed, and nothing in the world will happen. If that's not entirely true, so if a lot of people feel forced into a contract they don't want to keep and go to another service provider, then it's a little different, but the thing is, you only choose another service provider if it's cheaper and not if it's more expensive. For this reason, I think that threats to any price increase are unfounded and even extremely unfair. However, if - because we have already seen a crow on a stake - service providers are still fulfilling their threats, I think that the Hungarian State should be able to show that it is working as a Hungarian State, the Communications Authority should act at the moment if the service providers are talking together and if they are trying to change the price as a cartel, and in the event that I think that the Hungarian Competition Authority should also enter. Threatening us cannot prevent us from standing up for the benefit of the people, preventing us from representing the interests of the people and creating a market situation that will help people to gain quality services at a lower cost than at present. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about some of the amendments that came up after the proposal was tabled. I have to admit that there was a service comment that I think is real and thorough, and that is that, at the same time as ordering the service, a large asset is purchased in many cases or in several cases, and if the loyalty period is reduced from two years to one year, then this large asset, which is mainly bought into installments, can increase its payment, because the same price must be paid not in two years, but in one year. Therefore, in agreement with the Chairman of the Economic Committee, we intend to create the possibility of continuing to conclude a two-year contract at the client's request for the purchase of a high value asset, but only on condition that the price of the service itself cannot be more expensive during the one-year loyalty period than during the two-year loyalty period. Of course, the price of the device may be different, obviously it has to be different, but for the same TV channel, for the same internet use in a year, you can't charge more money than in two years. Thus, I think that this amendment can prevent what the service providers have rightly mentioned, and people continue to buy their high-value devices - smart TV, I don't know what kind of mobile phone - in two years they have to pay for it, they don't have to buy it immediately. There was yet another intention of amendment, which I must admit, after submitting the proposal, was proposed by a citizen on Facebook, and I didn't even know about it myself. Following the end of the loyalty period, customers have the option of decoupling their devices for a mobile device, so they should not only connect with that mobile device. They have a legal right to do so, but, as in any such case, the service provider looks at nothing but its own benefits, so they are asking for large amounts of money for the decoupling, and they are asking for 15-20-25 thousand for what they should do for free, because it doesn't cost anything, but they do everything, they don't think about the normal service, but how they can certainly chain customers to themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, There will also be an amendment proposal under which operators will have to comply with their statutory obligations free of charge. I respectfully ask you to support this bill, and I respectfully ask you to stand up for the benefit of the people, and we are the only ones you can count on against the service providers. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-30-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I will ask if the Secretary of State, Ákos Kara, wishes to speak on behalf of the Government. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-30-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Member of the Council of the European Union: It is not for the first time that you can hear from me here in Parliament that the present and the future are about digitalization, and digitalization is an increasingly important element of our daily lives. Progress is rapid, unstoppable. Almost everyone has a mobile phone, which is increasingly, almost without exception, smartphones. Most Hungarian families have some kind of cable TV subscription in their homes, who would like to watch hundreds of channels. In addition, thanks to the development of technology, it can do so in a better and better quality; the same is true of the Internet. The government is committed that by the end of 2018, every household that requires it will be able to connect to a wired or wireless super-fast internet. This digital development is therefore unstoppable, and Hungarians can and will also use more and better quality services. This is an important, joyful fact and points towards development. At the same time, we must not forget consumer rights in this area. I would like to point out to you that, of course, not only in terms of digitalisation, so digital consumer protection, but also in other respects, the government considers consumer protection tasks to be a priority. It is because, in many cases, Hungarian families, consumers are in a vulnerable position, and therefore, I would just like to point out that, thanks to the Government's effective action, we have made significant progress in terms of, for example, traditional consumer protection, in terms of product presentations and display of goods, and you know it, because the government made it clear at the beginning of the year that electronic commerce, i.e. explosive internet trade, is at the heart of consumer protection in terms of consumer protection this year. Ladies and gentlemen, Therefore, we must not forget consumer rights in the digital field. [[11.20]] Service providers must respect the rights of subscribers, it shall be prohibited to mislead, damage or exploit the vulnerable situation of the subscriber. The protection of consumers in communications is therefore a priority for the government, and we believe that consumer rights must be strengthened in order to ensure the success of the sector and the completion of digitalisation. The bill tabled by our fellow Member György Balla and Kucsák was also written in this spirit. My fellow Members, as has been said, by amending the Electronic Communications Act, they propose to strengthen the rights of consumers in communications on several points, thereby reducing their vulnerability to service providers. Such an important proposal is, for example, the introduction of a loyalty period of up to one year, the possibility of an easier termination of a contract which is not beneficial or which is not beneficial to the subscriber. Ladies and gentlemen, The direction of these proposals is agreed by the government. As I have indicated to you earlier, the protection of consumers in communications is a key government objective and we must ensure this by all means possible. We cannot allow large companies operating in this area, large service providers, to chain the consumer to them for years on favourable terms so that they can change the terms of subscription to their convenience. We need real competition in the communications market, where Hungarian consumers and Hungarian families are the first and are free to choose the best market offer for them. Thank you, therefore, for your efforts and for the bill tabled. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The government therefore agrees with the direction and spirit of the bill before us. It is important that we are able to make certain clarifications and amendments, so as to strengthen the situation of consumers by amending the laws and make the conditions more favourable to them. Under no circumstances should price increases be allowed and all instruments in the hands of independent authorities should be used to ensure that these new rules do not result in unjustified and harmonised price increases. I will go further: if, in the fight against prices, legal authority tools may become insufficient, the government is ready for further regulatory review and re-trial. The Government, ladies and gentlemen, is also aware that legislation, similar to the current proposal, which has a sensitive impact on large companies and major market service providers, but which supports consumers, must also withstand trials in Brussels where appropriate. This should also be the case if, following a malpractice complaint in Brussels, it is necessary to pass the test in the event of infringement proceedings, where appropriate. Ladies and gentlemen, I think, however, that we have to do all of this, and we should do it, because the winners of digitalization must be Hungarian people, Hungarian businesses. And the Hungarian people, Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses can only be the winners of digitalisation if they are given priority protection against the stronger market players than they are. Thank you very much for your attention, thank you very much to the authors for the bill they have tabled. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-30-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr László Kucsák, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-05-30-33	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As has been said by the speakers before me, we have a proposal, let us put it this way: user-friendly or consumer-friendly, strengthening user rights, and I think opening up new opportunities for them. Although this amending proposal is not too long, I think that its impact will be significantly greater than its size if it is adopted, even because we have just heard from Secretary of State Ákos Kara about the speed at which digitalisation is moving forward at an incredible pace. If we are going to take this item as a basis and accept it, I will certainly accept that we are witnessing incredible progress in this, then I think it is particularly justified that this bill is the starting point. The fact that in such an accelerated world - almost worn-out half sentence - and at such an incredible pace of development, it is not possible to really follow the pace of technology's development if the user has to stay in a 24-month maximum period of construction on the basis of an agreement with a service provider, even if he wants to quit as a result of technological developments or other changes. I think it's much more realistic, even if we move step by step, if we try to shorten it, and say that this 24-month so-called loyalty period, this contract should be maximized in 12 months, so it should be maximized in a year. This is much more in our view in the interests of users who conclude these contracts. It strengthens their rights, opens up opportunities for them, and I believe that the interests of the service providers will in no way be harmed in this case, otherwise they will not be harmed in the other cases. It is also an important element of this proposal that, if the so-called loyalty term contract expires, it could now be up to 24 months, with our hopes and intentions being reduced to 12 months. When this certain fidelity contract expires, and György Balla has already touched on it in his author's exposé, in this case, the user or consumer leaving the loyalty period contract should not in any case be put in a worse position than he was in the framework of the loyalty period contract before. I think it's important in every corner of the country. In our constituency, too, I have spoken to many citizens about this. It is important regardless of whether there are more than one operator at each location, or there are settlements or parts of settlements where a service provider provides such services, for example in the field of television services. Speaking of this, the next point in the amending proposal is precisely that there are users of services, not even few consumers, who buy a package for themselves, driven by specific interest for themselves or their families, including sports channels or children's fairy tale channels, or lifestyle channels, and so on. In the event that the service provider intends to modify it unilaterally within the so-called loyalty time period, the user should be able to exit from this contractual arrangement and not be attached to this contractual arrangement. In general, the following point states that, in each case where the service provider wishes to change the contractual arrangement unilaterally and negatively to the particular user, it should also be possible to terminate this contract immediately, as well as in the upcoming and final points of the open-ended contracts, this possibility should be opened so that, if the contract itself is concluded, it will be effective immediately and the payment of charges will obviously also be imposed, then, as you have also mentioned in the national exposé, the user of the service should not have to close this so-called cancellation period of 8 days. We do not see this justified from a technological point of view or from an administrative point of view so that it cannot be stopped, so this is where the possibility of immediate termination comes in. [[11.30]] It has also been mentioned what amendments have been made since the date on which the proposal was drafted. One of them was that, if it were to buy a device or a device of greater value, this maximum time period could remain in this case, in view of the fact that the devices could be purchased for such a longer period of time. But it would not be intended to extend to the service itself, so it would certainly be the 12 months maximum. It has also been said that after the end of the loyalty period, if you continue to use the user in the previous loyalty contract, so-called decoupling on these mobile devices and devices can be carried out free of charge. Obviously, in the general debate and in the future, other points and proposals will be formulated in the context of this proposal, which I am looking forward to, and, of course, all proposals that can be considered as forward-looking will be considered in substance. The only reason - and I would like to conclude with this - is because I am in my own constituency, Budapest XVIII. I also believe that, on the basis of its districts and other indications, there have been overwhelmingly supportive statements. I feel that the intention is clear and tangible for everyone, so once again to strengthen the rights of users, users and consumers and to open up new opportunities for them. The question, therefore, is not that there are other intentions here, namely that this proposal is being formulated against the service providers, but that it is an explicit user-friendly and consumer-valuable proposal, and we believe that this should not be accompanied by fees and tariff increases. Obviously, the aim is to achieve this, so that we can represent the interests of users even more widely than before. In this hope, I thank you for your attention and look forward to the various proposals in the context of our amending proposals. Thank you very much for the word and attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-30-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Árpád Velez, the lead speaker of the group of the MSZP.
u2017-05-30-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, One of the objectives of the proposal is to limit the maximum loyalty period for statutory subscriptions from the current 24 months to 12 months. The contract would then be converted into an indefinite period and could be terminated at any time by immediate termination. There will be no notice. The terms of an open-ended contract shall not be less favourable than fixed-term loyalty contracts. If a cable provider wishes to change its network list or if the subscription becomes unilaterally less favourable to the consumer than an increase in fees, the subscriber may exercise the right to terminate immediately within 90 days even if he has a fixed-term contract. So far, I fully agree with Mr Balla and his proposal can be supported. However, what we have reservations about is this. While there are content elements in the proposal that strengthen customer rights, as I said, this is okay, but we consider this to be a symptomatic treatment, and the core problem is not affected. The government's leading role with the introduction of telecommunications taxes was to make tariffs higher than all EU Member States. While the price of services has decreased in other countries of Europe, we have been burdened with extra burdens because of the government's decision. The VAT content of this is 27 percent, and this is what the telecommunications tax imposed in 2012, after texts and, for example, minutes. The taxes, levies and fees paid to the State take 29 percent of the total revenue of the services, so as long as the Hungarian families - and most importantly - transfer 29 percent of the price of the service to the State, we expect that the tariff packages for mobile and internet subscriptions are more favourable. Moreover, the proposal does not exclude that, as a result of the amendments, the burden of service providers should be passed on to consumers. It is commendable that after the end of the loyalty period, we can pay on the same terms as the new customers, but if the price rises for them, we have not helped this situation. It should also be borne in mind that Fidesz has adopted a bill a few weeks ago that allows the president of the NMHH to allow certain service providers to apply higher roaming charges for Hungarian subscribers than EU regulations. In short, that would have been the opinion of the Socialist Party. Thank you.
u2017-05-30-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-05-30-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It is well known that Jobbik is on the one hand a pro-consumer and on the other hand one of the biggest promoters and biggest supporters of technological development. We therefore consider it very important that, whenever we talk about electronic communications, we take both aspects into account, on the one hand, to protect consumers and, on the other hand, to develop technology, precisely so that we can achieve maximum results on both sides. In this way, maximum consumer protection can be achieved and the limits available in technology can be fully exploited by service providers for the benefit of consumers, in order to complete their browsing, watching TV or any other content communication or consumption patterns. This bill is perfectly correct, and if my fellow Member Balla had been in it, I could also say that he is proposing things that are unusually acceptable to him, since he usually gives us either negative criticism or rather difficult to digest as a gift in this House. But we are now facing a bill that we must say that it can hold positive developments not only for consumer protection, but perhaps also for the communications market, precisely because it will serve these two objectives, I think. It will be able to provide consumers with long-standing and legitimate expectations in some way, so it will give them protection, a freedom, because liberation from loyalty times or a reduction in loyalty times will certainly mean freedom of choice. It will give us hope, even though it may well be, but the service providers are feeling some kind of pressure. I believe that this pressure will rather go in the direction that it will help technological progress, the diversity of products and an internal drive for the market. It may therefore be able to create a real competitive position in which service providers will be interested in competing with each other under fair service conditions rather than creating competition at the expense of consumers on the market. If I do not get carried away in the debate on this bill, then perhaps this bill will be appropriate. By the way, the two authors correctly assessed the serious problem with the two-year period of loyalty. We don't need to be an expert or a politician, I think we all have similar consumer contracts at home, we all noticed this mistake, if not us, our relatives, our older relatives, or even the younger generation. So it needed medicine. Perhaps this one year is fair, as my fellow Member Balla has said, this is the reasonable time frame during which the provider investing in infrastructure can still find its own calculations, but it is not excessive for the consumer, either. I also think that it is good to establish an immediate scope for termination in open-ended contracts. I also think that the deadline after 90 days of notice is a step forward compared to the previous 15 days, with consumer-friendly, consumer-friendly regulation. Maybe it's good, too, because a lot of people who've been stuck in a bad contract so far may be able to get out of it. We also need to see that, on the other hand, there is a phenomenon that, despite technological progress, a person who is caught up in a package often has a much slower internet, a much tighter supply, a much smaller volume of data available on the market than a mobile phone subscription, and for two years because of the content of the package and the original conclusion, he is simply unable to change it, even though the technology practically runs by it. With new subscriptions, new offers, you could use significantly more favourable and significantly more useful services. [[11.40]] I am sure there will be people on the service side who resent this, but I think that in some way their competitive position, or their technological incentive, is or will be followed at some level by this legislative amendment, precisely because, if it is to compete for customers, it is likely to improve quality of the services they provide on the one hand and, on the other hand, in some way, it will also stimulate technological developments on the other hand. If we are talking about quality problems, let me say so, my fellow Members have also indicated that, perhaps, my fellow Members have noticed this very often when travelling abroad - and this typically concerns mobile phone services - that while the purchase of a service in Hungary is very short-term across the border, but when we come home, of course, the coverage or purchase of foreign service providers is still very portable for a very long time. There are many times that we can't use it with the Hungarian service provider a few kilometres beyond the Hungarian border, and on the way back there is still either the Austrian or the Slovak or the Ukrainian service provider many dozen or even 50-60 kilometres, so this shows that at some level there is a technological development available for the Hungarian market. For example, if we look at the Internet and how important technological development can be - and we hope that even the bill can encourage service providers in this direction - let us recall that, for example, according to KSH, only 75 percent of Hungarian households have access to broadband internet coverage, in which we are still further backwards from what is necessary and the European average. Thus, there is still room for improvement in broadband internet coverage, and, for example, market trends over the past period show that the greatest demand is precisely for these broadband internet access, since content and content volume have increased on the Internet. A lot of people use it for TV, video, serious data traffic. It is virtually impossible to do this on a different network than via broadband internet access, so hopefully it will also stimulate this. And then we're not gonna stand there or we're not gonna be where we've been for the last few years, which is two problems. Here, for example, the Internet is safe to say that in Hungary consumer packages, all we pay for, cost about EUR 20 as much as in Denmark, which is not in a similar situation, and if we compare it with average earnings there, in Denmark it is EUR 4000, in Hungary it is EUR 500. So we see that consumers in Hungary pay much more for a similar expensive package and often even have problems with their quality. There is a great deal of progress in this area. What I am not saying is that on the consumer side, a strong bill will move in its entirety in the direction that consumers will be involved in a huge competition with each other, not in a way that they will otherwise try to compete with each other on the technological development side. But perhaps it can help us not to be in a situation as stated earlier by Secretary of State L. Simon László that the mountain shepherd working in Fogarasi snows is browsing with faster and cheaper internet access than the ordinary Hungarian citizen, and in many cases there is better and more serious coverage in their country than in Hungary. Overall, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary is expected to support the bill, due to the provisions contained in this, and in particular to protect consumers and to facilitate the lives of consumers. I trust that all the points, all the amendments that György Balla mentioned here, will be codified. I hope that the authors will add these proposals. Of course, the Legislative Committee still has the opportunity to discuss them when they arrive. These would be important and forward-looking and, indeed, good directions in terms of telephone decoupling. Not to mention, there's a very large vision in illegal activity in telephone decoupling. Let's not be so hypocrites that we can rip off the fact that there's a market like this and there's a business like this. If this is a legal option and the obligation of the service provider, then let us give consumers the power to make use of it without any particular costs, extra costs or excessive pricing. Overall, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary is, as otherwise, a pro-consumer and technology-friendly and the 21st century. The party of the 20th century can, in any case, support such a bill, which protects consumers and we hope will help or encourage competition from service providers - that is the right word - and help consumers and encourage service providers. We encourage the authors to make the proposed amendments, and then perhaps even better, even more useful, the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-30-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2017-05-30-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, On the amendment before us, which is Act C of 2003, the amendment to the Law on Electronic Communications, I would like to start by saying that the May Other is in favour of this proposal. We know very well from the principle side: the XXI. In fact, from access to culture in the first century onwards, access to information means very, very much and must be ensured in the widest possible way. We believe that this proposal is moving in this direction, which is what it makes possible. From the practical side, I do not think that in the life of Hungarian people there are any Hungarian families who have not yet run into battle with service providers, either because they fail to enter or have a similar problem 30 days before the expiry of the loyalty period or service or subscription. This proposal will remedy them and resolve them; we think they are good, and I would therefore not mention them, which have already been repeatedly mentioned in this debate. On the one hand, György Balla, at the end of 16 minutes of his speech, brought the amendment, which we ourselves have stated, that if someone buys a device related to his service, which, if he did not, would be significantly higher in this case, we recommend to reconsider and modify this so that it is possible to extend the term in this case, regardless of the subscription or loyalty period. We consider this proposal to be good, and we ourselves have prepared this amendment. The other amendment, which has been made, is also eligible: the amendment made by György Balla. This is about decoupling devices from the service provider. However, in the case of both proposals, we raise the question that, as György Balla also gave these ideas, although I do not want to raise his sincerity - that he found this idea on Facebook - but yet I question his insight. Is there even such an idea in agreement with service providers? Are service providers capable of switching a sudden large number of devices? Obviously, it can be assumed that this has not been discussed with the service providers, their representative organisations, because I think that the author would not have been informed of such ideas from social media. We would have another suggestion, which has not been mentioned, and this is also a very small proposal, which can make people's lives much easier, and this is that if the loyalty period is nearing its expiry by a month or a few days, the subscriber will be notified that the loyalty period will expire in a very short time. After all, it is a very common experience that one suddenly realizes that one's loyalty time is over, and suddenly it's in a much more expensive tariff, and obviously this would be avoided by a very simple technical amendment, which would actually cost no one anything if a text or an e-mail came to the subscriber in this case. The proposal: once again, I would like to say that we support it. It specifically helps consumers; and we are confident that the government has also agreed with service providers to ensure that when this amendment comes into force, they are prepared to do so. Thank you for your attention. [[11.50]]
u2017-05-30-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group.
u2017-05-30-41	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, this amending proposal, which we have just presented, is an idea to support, because, as many of you have already explained here on behalf of opposition representatives, it contains really useful and good amendments for consumers. I would like to draw attention to a few things about this. One of the things that Congressman Balla has been talking about is what threats are being made, and since it is not the service providers - in terms of price increases and others - that I think the Hungarian Competition Authority will be more careful not to allow cartel-type agreements to come forward, even if the person has seen it and experienced that it is very difficult to compare the various packages directly with the different service providers so that they can deny this suspicion as easily as possible. The other thing I would like to say to Mr Secretary of State is that it is also worth taking steps that both my betterman and my fellow Member from LMP have already talked about, on the one hand, how to improve the quality of service with service providers, including, for example, territorial coverage. To give you an example: I think that there is no highway in Hungary where you can make a hundred percent phone call the whole time. So it is certainly not always possible on the busiest roads to reach the service in the right way for mobile phones. The other, to be more precise, the third, which I would like to draw your attention to, is that small settlements are not put at a more disadvantage - this is rather a question - because the tax imposed on different pipelines and utilities is more proportionate to smaller settlements, because there are fewer recipients of services than in a big city. So in Hungarian, we see that this may not only reduce or improve the situation of smaller settlements, but rather as if they were in a more difficult situation. Therefore, as far as the issue of fixed-line networks is concerned, if there are fewer users of the service, there is a proportionate increase in the burden of one single consumer than of using the same network in a large city. These would be the brief comments beyond what my fellow Member Árpád Velez has already said. Thank you, Mr President, for your attention.
u2017-05-30-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I ask the Secretary of State whether he wishes to end the debate or not. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State, Ákos Kara.
u2017-05-30-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The law of the closing of the debate is for the authors, but I would like to respond on behalf of the government to some of their points, because it is clear from what has been said that the government's position on consumer protection is going in the right direction in the last year, as it is in the right direction, as part of this bill, which has been submitted by our Fidesz fellow Members. As we have seen here in recent minutes, MEPs of all parliamentary parties consider this proposal to be a good direction with the necessary clarifications, amendments and, as Mr Balla has indicated, with proposals made by people, families and citizens. I think that this is a good direction, not only in terms of consumer protection, but also in terms of socialisation, a social policy objective, that citizens themselves can take part in decisions and make their views known. What I have asked for is other comments on infocommunications that have been made by opposition colleagues. First of all, I would like to point out that the current legal framework also provides the opportunity, not only for the legal framework, but also for the daily practice, to provide the possibility for service providers to indicate it to the family, the consumer concerned, before the contract expires. Ideas and suggestions can be put forward, since this has been found in pro-government lines in recent weeks, months, to make this one occasion, or to have more opportunities; so that before the contract expires, let us say, three times, given a certain period, or, let us say, twice. So I think that Parliament should discuss this and discuss whether such an amendment should come. Obviously, it makes sense that the more signals consumers receive about the likely expiry of the contract they have, the greater the guarantee they have; that type of guarantee, a one-off signal, is already available. It is therefore worth discussing with Parliament, where appropriate, how this can be done and how it can be resolved with a proposal or amendment. I would like to point out to my fellow Member Mesterházy that, contrary to him, I think that smaller settlements and smaller communities will benefit from the parliamentary decisions, the government measures that have been taken in Hungary in recent years. Here in Parliament, we have discussed the so-called legal accessibility in several waves, if this term should be used several times. In terms of developments and developments in infocommunications, I would like to point out that the intention to build broadband internet and reach one million households, the government's goal is moving at a sufficiently rapid and good pace, because the Parliament has made a decision to support this in several waves. This means that those who are building the network of broadband internet now in Hungary have a simpler and faster, less bureaucratic procedure. This parliamentary decision was made precisely for the benefit of smaller settlements, and the practice, construction and construction practice are proof of the rightness of this decision today. We have made significant government and EU funding available - through a tender framework - to cover the areas or municipalities that have so far been short of broadband or fixed or wireless internet in Hungary. And I think that the goal that we are planning is to reach all parts of Hungary by the end of 2018 via landline or mobile internet, and I think that this will be achieved. Once again, it was very important in this regard that our government intentions were perhaps fully supported by the Hungarian Parliament. So I am sure that the creation, re-regulation of the legal framework, small bureaucracy, significant government and domestic resources, and the government's clear and correct decision to increase the resources that cannot be used for EU funds in the Central Hungary region with government resources, so that these funds can also reach the Central Hungary region, all of which ensure that we can also find solutions for the areas that have not been covered so far, so that we can, too, for small communities, dear Member. Ladies and gentlemen, That is what I thought I would say to you from the government - indeed, as Mr President has used the term, as a summary of the debate. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-30-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Would anyone else like to comment on the debate? [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr László Kucsák as rapporteur. Would you like to respond to what has been said in the debate?
u2017-05-30-45	Yeah. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I am taking this opportunity briefly, even because in the last hour we have been told that opposition speakers are also giving their support to this package of amendments, regardless of party or party factions. I would like to thank you, on the one hand, for your support for the proposal and, on the other, for the fact that you have done this objectively. Allow me to respond briefly to some of the points. László György Lukács mentioned or raised the question, hoping that those proposed amendments would be codified; yes, that is why we have mentioned that these were already drawn up on the basis of preliminary discussions, so obviously these are on their way. [[12.00]] Congressman Ikotity suggested that it would be worth thinking about giving notice to users, consumers, before the end of the loyalty period. This has also appeared in our meetings, so I think it is worth considering. He also raised the question of whether the date of entry into force would be sufficient to ensure enforceability. I would like to reassure the Member that the intention is obviously to allow Parliament to adopt a feasible, feasible amendment. Finally, I would like to say to Mr Attila Mesterházy - because he also mentioned the Hungarian Competition Authority here in connection with what has been said - that my colleague György Balla mentioned in his exposé the authority competences and their effective enforcement in cases where this seems justified. So I think these intentions are consistent in this respect. Once again, I am very pleased that there seems to be an eligible proposal on all sides. I believe that this is a serious message for users, for consumers, because we want to serve their interests with this amending proposal so that their rights are strengthened and their opportunities expanded. It may also be a strong message for service providers that the representatives of all parties in Parliament have expressed their support for this proposal at this stage and with its present content. Thank you very much for your support and attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-30-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the promotion and mutual protection of investments between Hungary and the Kingdom of Cambodia will follow. Government referral T/155554. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr István Lepsényi, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-30-47	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before you adds a new element to the legislative framework for the development of economic relations between Hungary and the Kingdom of Cambodia. The agreement to be announced concerns making investments that are made more secure and more favourable by investors in the two countries in each other's territory. The agreement therefore serves the protection and legal certainty of Hungarian investors investing in Cambodia from a Hungarian perspective. The mutual provision of the provisions of the agreement does not require any legislative amendment on the part of Hungary, as Hungarian legislation guarantees the same treatment as domestic companies for foreign investors established in Hungary. The bilateral agreement between the two countries is particularly important for investors. At the same time, we must see that, since the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty, foreign direct investment has been part of the common policy within the European Union. This means that the Member States of the European Union can conclude an investment protection agreement with other countries if the European Commission has issued an approval mandate for it, with the necessary domestic authorisation. In the case of the agreement between Hungary and Cambodia, this was done, so the Hungarian Government signed the document at the beginning of last year. Dear House, One of the main purposes of the agreement is to provide investors in both countries with legal guarantee elements to protect their investments. In the Kingdom of Cambodia, several domestic farmers are planning to invest in larger volumes, such as the food industry, agriculture, agri-environment, tourism, water purification and water treatment, and waste processing. It is very important for these entrepreneurs to settle disputes that may arise, even against the State, under fair, impartial arbitration. The overall agreement of 14 articles meets the content requirements of international standards. I do not wish to describe the provisions of the agreement in their entirety, but I think it is important that I briefly highlight some of the essential points. As regards the framework of the agreement, it protects the investor and its investment abroad from its establishment in the partner country. For companies and companies investing abroad, the four main guarantee elements are as follows. Firstly, they are protected from discrimination, i.e. discrimination, and they are also granted the highest benefit and the principle of national treatment. Their protection has been guaranteed against possible expropriation and unfair and unfair treatment carried out beyond the public policy objectives or insufficiently compensated. In addition, the agreement also covers the protection of the possibility of capital transfers. Investment protection agreements, including the agreement with Cambodia, provide a way to resolve disputes between the investor and the State. This provision constitutes the main guarantee element for investors and therefore forms the basis for all investment protection agreements. This provision also provides protection in cases where the provisions of the investment protection agreement cannot be implemented directly in a given country before the domestic court of the partner country. Dear Parliament, We expect the conclusion of the agreement to help Hungary and Cambodia develop their investment relations by protecting investors. I'm asking you to discuss the bill and accept it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-30-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Petneházy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-05-30-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As everyone knows, Cambodia is one of the most dynamic developing countries in Asia every year. Like many Asian countries, Hungary's diplomatic and external trade relations are developing increasingly. As the Secretary of State has analysed, the bill before us does nothing but wish to strengthen the economic relations of the two countries. On the basis of its steps, Cambodia is a country similar to Hungary, its territory is about twice as large as Hungary and it has a population of over 15 million. It will make investments that are said, more favourable and safer, investments that are becoming increasingly visible between the two countries. It defines the most important legal and economic concepts, provides for categories and, not least, fair and equitable treatment. It also provides practical topics in such a way as to ensure that everyday routines are not hindered. We can say that these are perfectly in line with the government's external economic strategy that the Hungarian economy must become global wherever possible. The Kingdom of Cambodia is a country with significant foreign market opportunities. In the last year, Cambodia's economy has also shown an increase of over 7 percent, making it one of the fastest growing national economies in the region. And in this case, Hungarian companies can fill gaps in Cambodia, such as agricultural and food processing, livestock farming, meat industry. But they've also been interested in software solutions from Cambodia. [[12.10]] Hungarian technology in the medical instrument market, and as the Secretary of State said, they were also open to water management solutions in Cambodia. In view of the potential of the development of Hungarian-Cambodian economic relations, we have also recently opened a commercial representation in Phnompen, the capital city. They also show that the Hungarian foreign economy is on the right track. Because of what has been said, I would also ask the honourable Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-30-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-05-30-51	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The speakers before me, the Secretary of State and, in my view, my fellow Member, have outlined precisely the reasons why Hungary is in the interest of the national economy to conclude such an investment and investment protection agreement. Indeed, as has been said, several Hungarian domestic farmers are planning to invest more in the region. These investments are already in the preparation phase, as far as I am concerned, in the context of food, agricultural, agri-environment, tourism, water purification and water treatment or even waste treatment projects. Therefore, as I said before, this is, in our view, a domestic national economic interest, and therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction will naturally support this draft law. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-30-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Pintér, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-05-30-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary also supports this agreement, as, in addition to what has been said, Eximbank has opened a $26,7 million credit line to support cooperation between Hungarian and Cambodian companies, and this is, of course, positive. We would also like this to point us in the direction of bringing the government's Eastern opening programme in a positive direction, because the balance given in recent years is bad enough, since in 2016, the balance of the trading houses is down by HUF 2.7 billion. We hope, however, that this can also be a positive contribution to the Eastern Opening Programme's ability to make some progress, and we hope that trade can boost. In addition, it is proposed for consideration that a more serious foreign representation or even a consular service should be supported by the government in the Cambodian Kingdom. Of course, this would also serve to strengthen positive relations and, of course, the Jobbik Hungary Movement supports this. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-05-30-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible to speak to its representatives. I am asking my fellow Members if they would like to speak within the framework of this agenda. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-05-30-55	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Southeast Asia is a developing region of the world. If we look at the area - Thailand, Myanmar, Singapore, Hong Kong and, of course, Cambodia, Vietnam - there is an increasing interest in this direction in various activities, and the investment protection agreement fits into this line. Thank you very much for the comments and the proposal on foreign representation and consular representation. We will explore where this area can be covered most conveniently or effectively. So I would ask you to support this proposal in the vote. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-05-30-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Before we begin our next item, I must order a two-minute technical break. Please remain where you are, if possible. We're waiting for Secretary of State, Ákos Kara. Let's hope it arrives in a very short time. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, I thank you for your understanding. Of course, we try to take the necessary steps to avoid similar cases. And thank you, Mr Secretary, for taking the swift action now. [[12.20]] Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill amending certain laws relating to the transport of dangerous goods until closure. The government referral is T/15642. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to State Secretary Ákos Kara on behalf of the Ministry of National Development, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2017-05-30-57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before you contains a total of five amendments to laws and legislative decrees and the repeal of a law. Each legislation is about rules for international transport of dangerous goods and certain aspects of their domestic application. Hungary is a Contracting Party to the two UN agreements on the transport of dangerous goods by road and inland waterway and to the International Convention on International Rail Transport, one of which is an Appendix to the Code on the transport of dangerous goods by rail. The international contracts on road and rail transport were published by Decree-Law and the latest agreement on inland waterway transport by law. The large annexes to the three international treaties contain specific provisions for transport. They determine which goods are considered dangerous in transport and under which conditions they can be transported safely. They shall provide for safe packaging and marking of dangerous goods, for which documents to accompany the consignment, for which vehicle, for which technical requirements, for which official procedures dangerous goods may be carried. The European Parliament and Council have decided to apply the same rules to the transport of dangerous goods within Member States since 2008. Ladies and gentlemen, As a result of work in international organisations, taking into account the development of science and technology and the experience gained in application, the regulations for each transport sub-sector are amended every two years. So far, amendments to the regulations, i.e. the Annexes to international treaties, have been announced by laws. However, the subject matter of the Annexes to international treaties, i.e. the specific technical and administrative requirements for deliveries, does not fall within the competence and competence of the Parliament, and they should therefore be published in a government decree under the law on international treaties, subject to the authority of the Government to do so by the law declaring the international treaty. With the proposed amendment of the related Act and Legislative Decrees, the Government is now given this mandate. Following the adoption of the bill, the amendments to the Annexes for 2017 could be published by a government decree. We have an obligation under international treaties and EU directives to publish amendments to the Annexes on a deadline. Since the publication of the government decree is a much simpler legal procedure, this will allow for more time to prepare for the implementation of the new legislation for Hungarian businesses, the consignor of dangerous goods, suppliers, carriers and the authorities concerned before the deadline has expired. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill amending certain laws relating to the transport of dangerous goods provides the opportunity to meet our international and EU obligations to publish rules on the transport of dangerous goods in a simpler and faster manner. In view of all this, I would ask my fellow Members to discuss the bill and then to support it. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-05-30-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr János Bencsik, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-30-59	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. The purpose of the bill before us is clearly to relieve the burden of the Parliament's work. Proposals for amendments to the Annexes to international conventions on the transport of dangerous goods have been regularly presented to this House in recent years. The reason for this was that the annexes to the agreements concluded in Geneva, Bern and Vilnius have been amended several times as a result of ongoing work in international organisations and scientific and technological progress. According to the motion, instead of law in the future, it will be enough to announce, as a government decree, international agreements which amend one of these 1,000-1200 pages annexes. Ladies and gentlemen, Despite the fact that the bill relieves the Parliament of burden, thanks to the faster amendments, Hungarian businesses also have more time to prepare for the changes, so the Fidesz fraction supports the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-30-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Árpád Velez, head speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2017-05-30-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The real intention behind the proposal is obviously that the government has had enough of the parliamentary legislative procedure for some reason. Although this parliamentary procedure cannot be called towed or cumbersome, it intends to resolve the amendment of the Annexes to the relevant international treaties within its own circles. Therefore, there are practical aspects governing the government. At the same time, it is not understandable that, if the proposed regulatory objects were still considered legislative in 2015, why they changed their views two years later, while the rules on international contracts were the same in 2013, 2015 and 2017. The MSZP Group therefore does not support the bill because of the above concerns. Thank you.
u2017-05-30-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-30-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The speakers before me have already spoken about the form in which the work of the Hungarian Parliament, the legislator, is relieved by the current attached draft legislation. Indeed, this is a very extensive annex to the International Convention, which is reviewed every two years and the Annex to the Convention is amended every two years. And since this regulates absolute detail issues, it may indeed be appropriate if this is removed from Parliament's powers and its announcement is made at the level of a government decree. But what is it, what are the dangerous goods that this legislation is about? Goods which, during their transport, are either flammable or explosive, or which may be harmful to health, are mainly corrosive and toxic substances or have environmental properties are called dangerous goods. These are classified in different hazard classes. There are explosives, flammable gases, non-flammable non-toxic gases, toxic gases, flammable liquid substances, flammable solids, self-reactive substances, self-combustible substances, substances forming flammable gases with water, ignition oxidising substances, organic peroxides, toxic substances, infectious dangerous substances, radioactive substances, corrosive corrosive substances, and other dangerous substances. So what we see is that if we just list the areas of dangerous goods, then this is a serious list, and when it comes to the details of their transport, we will find an even more specific and indeed very long, meaningful annex. And that's where it comes in, in which areas it should be applied. Well, in the case of the Convention on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road, in the case of the Convention on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Rail, and in the case of the Convention on Inland Waterway Transport, which is defined by the current legislation as an area where the territorial scope will apply and will apply to these types of transport. [[12.30]] At the international road transport of dangerous goods, there are two annexes, which are very important. The Annex A contains the general specifications, the provisions on hazardous substances and articles and Annex B, which includes the provisions on means of transport and transport. The agreement was reached in Geneva in 57, to which Hungary joined in 1979. It is one that is raised every two years and renegotiated on what needs to be amended and adapted to scientific and technical progress. By the way, 24 September 2008, 2008/68. Directive EC of the European Parliament and of the Council also provided for the mandatory entry into force of this Agreement throughout the European Union. I think that it is also appropriate, in this case, to declare changes in the Annex to the Government Decree. As for rail transport, such a mandatory European directive, the same Directive, the same Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, has provided for its entry into force, so it applies equally to the whole territory of the European Union. An international treaty for inland waterway transport, established in 1941, serves as a source of law here, but here, too, its annex will indeed be amended or published by a government decree. I think that there is no danger in this that the MSZP Member who spoke to me said. For this reason, not to mention that two out of three are mandatory and all Member States within the European Union are subject to entry into force, and there is no particular importance for the annex that a government decree or a law will provide for this, I think that the bill can safely be supported. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-30-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if they still wish to speak within the framework of this agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-30-65	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that everyone is essentially in favour of this bill, thank you very much for the supporting contributions. Thank you, Mr President, for the floor.
u2017-05-30-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate between Hungary and the Republic of Estonia on the draft law on the publication of the Convention on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information until closure. Government referral T/15782. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-05-30-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, After the tragic events in Manchester, I think it is clear to everyone that this bill has a high priority. More than ever in the area of national security, cooperation with foreign partner services, action against potential assassins, fast and accurate data exchange and data recording are given greater emphasis. On 1 April 2010, the Act on the Protection of Classified Information replaced the Act on State Secrets and Service Secrets and the National Security Surveillance Act. The new legislation has fundamentally codified the structure of the protection of classified information in Hungary. It has created a uniform legal and institutional system for the protection of classified information, while at the same time fulfilling the most important legal harmonisation obligations. The conclusion of the Convention is necessary so that Hungary can participate in international security cooperation involving the exchange of classified information, in which it is essential to conclude bilateral agreements ensuring the protection of classified information. In order to establish the text of the bilateral agreement and to open negotiations, the mandate was given by the Prime Minister's decision on the preparation and establishment of international treaties for the mutual protection of classified information. The Convention aims primarily to protect classified information generated or exchanged in cooperation between the two countries. In this context, it shall regulate security cooperation between the Parties, designate the competent authorities and provide for specific national classification levels and procedures to be applied in the event of a breach of the security of classified information. The conclusion of the Convention will contribute to strengthening cooperation in the fields of defence, home affairs, police cooperation, national security, international organised crime and the fight against terrorism. The Convention on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information between Hungary and the Republic of Estonia was signed by the Contracting Parties in Budapest on 8 December 2016. According to the Act on the Procedure for International Contracts, Parliament may authorise the recognition of the mandatory scope of the Convention, and the Minister of Interior has therefore submitted a bill to this House on the publication of the Convention after the signature. I trust that my presentation has convinced you that the Convention serves the right and important purposes and that it is timely to conclude it. Cross-border police and secret service cooperation, including the exchange and protection of classified information, is of paramount importance in the effective fight against terrorism. Please support the bill. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-05-30-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Petneházy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2017-05-30-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, With Estonia, we can say that our relationship has traditionally been excellent and close. It is an eloquent proof that the Estonian Prime Minister visited Hungary a week ago. After Estonia took over the Presidency of the European Union from July, Juri Ratas personally wanted to present his presidency programme to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. As we all know, the Union is facing a number of challenges. It has also become particularly important to curb defence policy and illegal migration, as Mr Secretary of State has pointed out. The latter can only be resolved together, which is why it is good news that our Estonian partners, as the Estonian Prime Minister said, put the issue of a safe Europe first. The Estonian Prime Minister also said during his visit that they will pay more attention to what Member States want to achieve within the EU. I think that's very happy news. Cooperation with Estonia is important for us in all areas, but since 2010 there have been laws on the protection of classified information that have not yet been concluded between Estonia and Hungary. This law establishes a uniform legal and institutional system for data protection. This was also necessary because Hungary was lagging behind in this area, and a number of foreign legal requirements have not yet been complied with, and several important legal institutions have not been introduced before.In 2015-2016 we have concluded similar agreements and agreements with many countries. It was therefore just in time to put an end to this lag in relation to Estonia as well. That is why I call on my fellow Members to contribute to the publication of this bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-30-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-05-30-71	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP parliamentary group supports bilateral international agreements based on a secret law adopted by consensus in 2009 to enable the safe handling and exchange of classified information. [[12.40]] But perhaps, for a sentence, I should like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the fact that I think the Member has said precisely in this regard that the relations between Estonia and Hungary are indeed very good, and that there is a historical and many other cultural reasons, and we have repeatedly asked the Government through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to ensure the reopening of the Hungarian embassy. In this we have always received a supportive response, including at the last hearing of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and earlier. You should know that there is full agreement between the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, regardless of which party or faction we are sitting in, that it is particularly unpleasant that there is no Hungarian embassy during the EU Presidency; it is worth checking whether this has any opportunity beyond the ministerial promises to open such a new embassy. I am also saying this because in another position, as chairman of the Committee on Budgets, I had the opportunity to debate the Foreign Affairs Chapter, and it turned out that the government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, had not planned a budget for opening new embassies for the following year. This does not rule out, of course, that there should be a source, but it has not previously planned money for this. In English, it seems as if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had no plans for opening this embassy the following year, while what my Fidesz colleague was talking about was true, which is why it would certainly be useful in bilateral relations if we could seal it with an embassy. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-05-30-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-30-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In the light of the terrorist acts in Manchester, Minister of State Tibor Pogácsás began to conclude such an agreement particularly timely, but not only this one, but also the other similar acts that took place very close to our neighbourhood, Europe or Europe, such as the assassination in Paris, the assassination in Nice, the assassination in Ankara, Istanbul. So what we see is that similar bloody attacks are taking place around Hungary, Europe, on the outskirts of Europe, and indeed they need it in Europe, but people everywhere in the world need to feel safe, feel safe, feel safe about their families, loved ones, and their national brothers. That is why this draft legislation is also important, and the conclusion of the Convention and its implementation. So we see that the new legislation on the protection of classified information entered into force on 1 April 2010, the 2009 CLV. law, this has enabled Hungary to finally conclude bilateral relations with other states that are subject to such agreements on confidentiality. In 2012, we first concluded these bilateral agreements with Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Poland, and then the other countries, so that we also concluded this agreement with Estonia. Jobbik, on the other hand, has a clear goal of safe Hungary, a safe livelihood, and a long-term goal for all of us, and I think it is a safe Europe and a safe Earth, and it is in any case a small mosaic of all similar legislation to achieve this safe world. Therefore, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports the publication of the Convention, and we support any such treaty in the near future, in the further future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-30-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I am asking my fellow Members if they still wish to speak under the item on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application, and therefore the general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-30-75	In short, thank you very much for your support, your statements of support and your comments on the embassy. Thank you.
u2017-05-30-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Chile on the proposal for an agreement on the temporary work programme for tourists will follow. Government referral T/15781. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2017-05-30-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Chile on the temporary work programme of tourists was signed on 18 August 2016 in Budapest. Within the framework of the programme envisaged by the Agreement, nationals of the two countries aged between 18 and 35 years - up to 200 persons in Hungary - may stay in the territory of the other Party for a period of not more than half a year and may temporarily work if certain conditions are met. The visa for temporary work under tourism provided for in the Agreement, valid for a maximum of 12 months, is an existing residence document in the Republic of Chile. The establishment of the agreement can have a positive economic, tourism, cultural and educational impact on the whole of Hungarian-Chile relations. The conclusion of the agreement could help to broaden the cooperation between the two countries. The Embassy of Chile in Budapest initiated the conclusion of the agreement on 17 September 2013 in order to deepen economic, tourism, cultural and educational relations. Hungary is already a party to several of these agreements: New Zealand, the Republic of Korea, Taiwan, Australia, Japan, and most recently, it is also under preparation to be concluded with Hong Kong. The practical implementation of the agreement is ensured by Hungary. According to the law on the procedure for international treaties, Parliament may authorise the recognition of the compulsory scope of the agreement, and the Minister of Interior has therefore submitted to this House a bill for the publication of the agreement after the signature. I ask this House to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-30-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Petneházy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-05-30-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Look how great the job is: I could travel three continents in a short hour and a half: Europe, Asia, and now we have arrived in Chile. As the Secretary of State said, within the working holiday programme, this bill aims to make it easier for citizens between the ages of 18 and 35 to travel, gain experience, and not least the opportunity to develop language skills within which young people can not only see the usual tourist attractions in another country on a cost-based basis, but also really, much deeper into the culture of the other country by taking a temporary job there and not only getting a source of funding, but also by giving them the opportunity to learn about the economic world of the other country, the local culture of work, and, of course, not least people. As the Secretary of State pointed out, deepening long-term diplomatic relations is not the last benefit. This agreement has already been concluded with several countries, and it has also become timely here. The programme applies to 200 people, as has been said, in a period not exceeding six months, to the possibility for young people to travel in the country together with work. [[12.50]] Of course, Chile and Hungary's relationship system will be broadened and existing human relations, including youth relations, will be further developed. It is also an excellent opportunity for the Chilean and Hungarian people to learn about each other's cultures and get to know the other country. I call for the support of my fellow Members. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[László Földi is replaced by Dr. István Tiba in the notary seat.]]
u2017-05-30-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-05-30-81	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The agreement fits well into the system of Hungarian-Chile relations, which would also serve the further development of human and youth relations. The establishment of the agreement can have a positive impact on the whole Hungarian-Chile relations, which can clearly be beneficial in the economic, touristic, cultural and educational fields, and therefore the Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group supports the adoption of the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-05-30-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Pintér, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-05-30-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We have a template agreement ahead of us, which has been concluded with both the Republic of Korea and Australia, with the aim of developing human and youth relations between Hungary and the Republic of Chile. One of Hungary's biggest problems, the issue of emigration and the emigration of young people, of course, can be unwittingly remembered. But obviously, this is not so relevant in this case, since the visa may be valid for a maximum of one year, and we therefore support this proposal. However, it must also be said that we encourage the government to continue to take over Jobbik's programme proposals, such as the possibility of making the first language exam free, and the possibility of abolishing student loans, which, of course, is not related to this issue, but in fact is a very important problem. The bill on the Republic of Chile is, of course, supported by the Jobbik Hungary Movement. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-30-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if they wish to speak under the item on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I don't see any reporters. The general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, In line with the 2015 CCXI on chimney sweeping activities. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Presentation submitted by MEPs Lajos Kósa and István Németh Szilárd - Fidesz - T/1577. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr István Németh Szilárd, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Congressman, please.
u2017-05-30-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Everyone could read this bill. This bill is an extension to the Hungarian citizens who have signed contracts with the asset manager in connection with the last measure of this package through the bank rescue package, and the asset manager has purchased their properties as set out in the legislation, and they can live on in real estate. Since the asset manager is a legal person, the asset manager has been subject to a free chimney sweep based on our latest bill of sale reduction, which only affects private owners and individuals, does not apply, so in this law we would like to extend the free chimney sweep to those who have contacted the asset manager. This now affects around 25 thousand families, but in the coming years this number may increase, of course, as resources are available for the continued operation of the asset manager, both in the 2017 and 2018 budgets. If you look back, you can see what this free chimney sweep means for people: it practically came into effect in the summer of 2013, 1 July 2013, it was a category of reductions in the prices of energy supply, district heating, gas prices and electricity reductions, such as drinking water supply, sewerage, sewage snorkeling, bottled gas and, of course, chimney sweeping and garbage transportation. This was an extremely complicated situation at the time, we could hardly solve it, we had to intervene several times in this area, because the country was not subject to the same chimney sweep charges; there were municipal-owned chimney sweep companies, there was a locality obligation around the chimney sweep, and in the end the government decided to do so after paying a good one-and-a-two-year-old, otherwise reduced prices, and the majority of Fidesz-KDNP in Parliament supported this by making this service free for individuals. This was a very successful operation. By the way, everything that the opposition then represented, just as it did during the reduction of the rent, that the companies would be destroyed, that there would be no chimney sweep, everything would collapse, this simultaneously desire and nightmare, which moved the opposition, fell into a jam. Well, there's one hundred words after the rescue package, which the majority of the government and the Parliament's Fidesz-KDNP have come to help after the end of the payment, the exchange rate barrier, the forintification, the National Asset Manager, family bankruptcy, fair banks, and last time, we're extending this bill to people who could use this bank rescue package on the rescue of families, a bank debt rescue package, on the basis of the contracts with the National Asset Manager. I would ask the honourable factions to discuss the bill before us and ask them to support it. Let's help these 25,000 families. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-30-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr. Tibor Pogácsás, Secretary of State, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-30-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The government supports the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-30-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to have keynote speeches. I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kósa, leader of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2017-05-30-89	Mr. President. Dear House, We have exchanged the roles of the authors and the keynote speaker, thank you very much for making this possible for us, because I myself am the rapporteur for this proposal. I have to mention that the first signal was sent to us by Balázs Litauszky, a very kind correspondent of Parliament, who indicated that this seemed fairly unfair, namely that the people who are otherwise in a very difficult situation, because the asset manager had already taken their house because of the unmanageable nature of their debt, and they are now living as tenants, not as owners... - so that is not only the problem, but also the fact that, in addition, the reduction in the liability of the owners does not apply to them. Mr Litauszky asked if we wanted to change that. There was actually a conversation about this, and then we said, "Yes, we will look into it, let's look at it, and if we get Parliament's support, then absolutely. [[13.00]] My fellow Members, Szilárd Németh and others, have thus tabled this bill. To a significant extent, the logic of the entire bill is similar to the logic of the reduction of the rent because we believe that in crisis situations where there is a real need for help, we must also help, so we do not say, of course, that the 30,000 families, roughly 30 thousand who now live in the apartment owned and rented by the National Asset Manager, will have their lives straightened out, because this is a much more difficult and complicated problem, but that it is something helpful to them is quite certain. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] So, overall, we have calculated - I don't know, maybe this has not yet been said - this means an extra HUF 210 million expenditure to the asset manager, because, of course, it is necessary to carry out the sequencing test. The Ministry of Interior stated that it could manage this surplus of 210 million from its own chapter, so we thought that there was no reason to propose this, despite the fact that we knew that the law was subject to a budget, so it could have actually been submitted to the budget, but after we clarified this question, we thought that we would present this as an independent law, not adapting to the budget law. We ask your support for this. I think we're talking about a good cause that everyone can stand by with a good heart. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-30-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Lajos Kósa. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-05-30-91	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with the sentence that Lajos Kósa concluded that this is indeed a good cause to stand next to. There are few times when I agree with Lajos Kósa, but this is certainly such a moment today, so we also think that it is entirely justified to make the chimney sweep service free for credit taxpayers who are already in difficulty, so the aim of the proposal should be fully supported. But let me make another suggestion: I would also like to suggest to the head of the group that with the same argument that you have just made, there is another circle that should be included in this free-of-charge, and in the case of social housing, it would be justified to ensure that the public service is free, since they are likely to live in the same conditions as the Hungarian families who have lost their homes as you mentioned. If it's in this circle... I don't know, I couldn't quantify, there wasn't time, because the proposal came soon or quickly, but I would ask the pro-government representatives or the Ministry of the Interior, so that if they could quantify this, it would be worth considering. We, for our part, are making such a short amendment proposal, and we hope that this will also be possible in the next period. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-30-92	Thank you very much, Congressman Mesterházy. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-05-30-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the beginning, I would like to say that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports the bill, because it is indeed families that we can improve their situation. We support any bill that improves the fate of Hungarian people. But I must mention that I do not understand the reasoning of the authors in one or two parts. It begins with Szilárd Németh talking about 25,000 families, Lajos Kósa mentions 30,000 families for three minutes [[Lajos Kósa: Nearly 30,000!]] You can see how well they're aware of who's in this situation. And then I don't even understand that we're charging... almost... you see, these Freudian speeches -- Szilárd Németh says that we're extending the rent reduction here. We are not extending the cost reduction because there is no such thing as a free service, my honourable fellow Member. There is no free service, someone always has to pay the bill; this bill is also paid by taxpayers, by the way. We drew attention when you brought this law in front of the House, and the whole chimney sweeping service, as it is, was changed, and an old profession based on very normal traditions was almost destroyed, and it was destroyed to the level where it is at the moment that this is not going to be good. You have never listened to the opposition's opinion, you have never listened to the opposition's objections, you have thought that, of course, you are right. And what I don't understand is that if you're like this, so much so that I can quote Szilárd Németh, who talked about the exchange rate barrier and the forinting and everything else about how much they saved the Hungarian families, then why is there 25 thousand or 30 thousand foreign exchange-credit families in such a situation as he is. Because you didn't save them. You can communicate this very well at the level of communication, but otherwise you did not actually give the help that you should have given to the foreign exchange lenders. The Jobbik for Hungary Movement has also expressed its opinion on how it could have really helped foreign exchange lenders: the forinting should have been carried out at the rate at which they were borrowing, but you didn't listen to us. That's why so many families are in such a bad situation. You must have noticed this problem, you must have received different signals, and therefore we are changing this now, otherwise - I repeat - quite rightly, only if we have touched this law and changed it, then very, very much needs to be changed. We should change the provisions of the law that put Hungarian people at risk, which make it mandatory every two years, say, to check chimneys, and which has caused a lot of people to die this year, too, in the heating season, thanks to you, because of these laws - carbon monoxide poisoning. 'Cause unfortunately, this is an area that can't be done with clumsy work, like you'd like to do, you can't just sweep this market away and hand it over to your friends like you did, like, the gambling market or the tobacco market, and it's people's lives here depend on what decisions you make. And since then, it has also been found that this law is being seriously abused in disaster management, because - we have already filed a complaint in this case - employees of disaster management during working hours, the state vehicle, the state's salary, when you have to pay for this service, so when you check some company's chimney, it turns out it's a kft. You'll be billed for your name, and you'll have your share of your income right there. Then let's get to this bill in particular, which you have just tabled here. I don't want to... I'm trying to choose my words about this job that you've put before us. There's only one half sentence in this, and you haven't been able to codify that properly. For this reason, Jobbik Hungary Movement offers its help through its legal department and we present an amendment proposal, an amendment that, we believe, will be clear and will make this law normally understandable and indeed serves the purpose that we believe you would have wanted to achieve. As I say, although the bill only adds a single paragraph within a single sentence, within a paragraph, the wording of the new rule by the authors leaves a few grievances. The first problem is that in the new text the legislator creates a new category of property within a group, i.e. within the scope of the property owned by the natural person and not registered as its head office, establishment or branch. Thus, the NEK properties owned by the State will also fall under the above category by virtue of the power of the law, which is silly - forgive me! - because they're not a natural person, they're owned by the state. The wording is more fortunate with the extension within the listing point, with the word, which I use in my amendment proposal, so it is clear that, in addition to the properties owned by the natural person, the legislator also intends to include properties owned by the NEK. That would have been the right codification, in our opinion. The other problem is that it's NOT TV. 22. § (1) of the lease agreement and the tenant's emphasis on housing - as a condition of the NEK contract - is not on the use of real estate. Therefore, I suggest that this be improved. Please consider looking at this amendment, which we have tabled, so that I think we can improve this amendment. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary, I say, in addition to the objections listed above, which I have said, will of course support it, as this will improve the lives of Hungarian families. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-30-94	Thank you, Congressman Szilágyi. I now give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2017-05-30-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, There are new victims of the government's market redistributive efforts. They also destroy chimney sweeps after waste managers. The method is old: first, they increase costs with separate taxes and new public burdens, then artificially reduce prices by public intervention, and finally, the State takes over the market from the loss-making private companies that have made it impossible, and the loss falls on taxpayers. The result is already apparent: the increase in burdens and the reduction in administrative prices resulted in a total loss of 50 per cent of revenue. The chimney sweeping service providers are only small Hungarian-owned enterprises. These were caused by a series of failures by this measure. And he's put these guys on disaster control. This is a highly responsible sector, particularly important for the security of life and property, and this kind of nationalisation is totally unacceptable. [[13.10]] The LMP does not oppose Community-owned public services, but we do not support the creation of opaque state mammoth institutions capable of loss-making and corruption only. Based on the experience so far, we consider this to be a completely wrong direction. The retail chimney sweeping service has become free of charge according to government claims, but in fact the bill continues to be paid by people, only now through the central budget. In the meantime, however, the situation in the industry is becoming increasingly unsustainable. There is a huge shortage of professionals in areas where disaster management has taken over the service, which clearly increases the risk of accidents. LMP has been a consistent opposition to the restructuring and full nationalisation of the chimney sweep service since the beginning. It was prognostic that there would be a lot of incompetence problems while skilled and experienced chimney sweepers became unemployed for hundreds. There were not enough prepared workers in the chain of disaster protection today, trained workers in crash course training, redirected public workers, we think it is very risky to entrust such responsible work. However, there are other, less tragic, but equally clear signs of inability to function. The Orbán government tried to popularise the state takeover of the chimney sweep service by using the password of freedom, and there is no doubt that the inspection of chimneys has become seemingly free for families - in some circles and under certain conditions, because the essence is here, in the small print section. What the state saves on household payments, it beats down several times on businesses, even if they belong to the category of family business and operate on a private property. For example, no one understands why small businesses with a postal address to a family home should be paid where they do not engage in industrial activities, i.e. once the service is free for the general public. Disaster control doesn't think so. If there is also a business in a house, the chimney sweep simply treats it as a business seat and does not control it in the framework of the free service, the owner of the undertaking is obliged to order the paying service for the entire property. In such cases, all chimneys are considered to be entrepreneurship chimneys, which remain within the competence of market operators. I spoke on this subject after the agenda on 19 April. Sadly, I have not received an answer from the government as to why this is so and why it is not being corrected in our belief that this is a very bad rule. It is the same as in waste management that has been disrupted and rendered inoperable by similar means. The Orbán government has found a non-existent problem, as the chimney sweep service has so far operated on a market-based and adequate level in Hungary, and has done a lot of real problems for domestic businesses that are already burdened with a lot of unnecessary paperwork and payment. All of this is legal today, which means that the relevant law is useless and harmful, it is time to change it in the light of experience. The current amendment of the law does not help the basic problem. We agree that monitoring should also be free of charge in the case of homes that come to the asset manager, but the real solution would be to have homes that are not active in the industry, which are only based on the location and postal address of small businesses. If they had already touched the wrong law, this deficiency should have been addressed, because it affects a lot more people than the modification made to the asset manager. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-05-30-96	Thank you very much, Congressman Ikotity. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2017-05-30-97	Thank you very much. I would like to draw your attention to two very short things that could be changed. One is that we have complaints that there are two different procedures when a family house, let's say a company, is registered, and several companies, let's say the same owner owns two or three companies, have only one request, because there is a chimney, they ask for the prize once, but there are some companies that ask for it by company, and that might be something to pay attention to. The other problem that has come to us is that the chimney inspection is free of charge for retail clients, in the event of a second request, so if it is necessary to reconvene with the chimney sweeping service provider after two requests, then it must be paid. We've had a lot of complaints that they almost don't show up at the first request, and they don't even try to check the chimney, but they just throw in the notification, try the second one personally, and if they're not at home after that, then they have to pay, and they're not free. I have raised these two problems only because, if you think that you might want to make this law even better, then these two problems could be dealt with, so as to make it more clear that something could be found so that there might be no abuse on the part of the OKF, no tricks about trying to get the otherwise free service paid to the public, but still getting it paid to those for whom this service would be free. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-05-30-98	Thank you, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Mr. Lajos Kósa for two minutes.
u2017-05-30-99	Mr. President. Dear House, I would just like to clarify one piece of data, because it has given my colleague, György Szilágyi, a puzzle. About 25,000 is the contract number already entered into by the National Asset Manager - about 25,000 - until 31 March. I was talking about a figure of 30,000 because at the end of this year, when we asked if this law would come into force, of course, and the year-end figures would have to be used to calculate the budget's annual burden, they said that they would expect roughly 30,000. Now there's only $25,000 contract number, and by the end of the year, it could be close to 30 according to our current data. However, NGM says that the total number will peak sometime around 35 thousand, but it will have to be counted by the government at the end of the 18th budget and budgetary resources. So there are multiple numbers at the same time, just not the same content. 25,000 contracts have been concluded so far, until 31 March, which is a rounded number, and by the end of the year this could go up to about 30,000. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-05-30-100	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] I would ask Mr Szilágyi to sign up for a proper speech, but he only has the opportunity to do so, although I am sure the two-minute period would have been nice. Go ahead, Congressman Szilágyi. [[13.20]]
u2017-05-30-101	Thank you very much. No, I just don't understand. So you're saying, Congressman Kósa, that it's $25,000 now, then 30,000, 35 thousand, I think they might give you some bad data. It's simply not possible to increase the number of people who are in a worse situation and are forced to sell their apartment, which is to give it to the state, and to hire it back when you saved the foreign exchange loaners. If you've saved the foreign exchange loaners, this figure of 25,000 would have to keep falling, because your rescue decision is getting more and more felt, and then there'll be fewer and fewer. What you've told me at the moment means that you've saved the foreign exchange credentials, more and more of whom are in a worse and worse situation. I don't understand, but I'm just saying, maybe you got the wrong data, Mr. Group Leader, and that's why you're saying this. If you saved him and I didn't believe that you saved the Feds, your numbers wouldn't increase. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-30-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2017-05-30-103	Thank you very much. I thought, too, that I would repeat the question once again, because Mr Group Leader did not mention my question whether he saw an opportunity for the Parliament to take a similar measure in relation to social housing. In this connection, whether there is any counter-argument or if they are willing to examine this possibility, I would ask the Secretary of State or the Head of the Group with due respect. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-30-104	Thank you. Dear House, I'm asking if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed and I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Szilárd Németh, author Fidesz. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-05-30-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It looks like you might want to get the doctor to prescribe new vitamins or mood improvers, but I'll tell you this number of 30,000 didn't come out of the air, but that's how many people checked in. Thirty-thirty-one thousand people have already applied for a contract to continue, and 25 thousand contracts have been concluded. Not everyone closes the contract in a short time, within a month or two with the National Asset Manager, but I think György Szilágyi knows it exactly as we do, but we just have to do a little pooping around here. The point is, I accept what you said in the end, that this is in the interests of the Hungarian people, so they will support it, so it doesn't matter what they say, the point will be in the vote, but I thank you with great respect. I don't say anything new to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, these social tenants are government-owned, the municipalities are the owners, and the municipalities are obviously able to negotiate in this case. The municipalities can also take the steps themselves to give preference to residents of social housing. This is called a contract between the two contracting parties and a municipal decree governing the tenanting and rental terms of the municipal tenements, so the municipalities have this option. I'll give you a municipality: the municipality of Csepel lived four years ago. Thank you very much. I would ask everyone to support this proposal, which, once again, on the basis of this contract, will have a minimum of 25,000 families, but by the end of the year, up to 30,000 families, if we count four people, will be able to help 120,000 people, and will contribute to the reduction of their costs. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-30-106	Thank you, Mr Szilárd Németh. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Now, Honourable Parliament, the general debate on the bill to amend individual laws in relation to a prominent national memorial site will follow. Presentation by MEPs Répássy Róbert, János Halász and L. Simon László Fideszes T/15784. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr János Halász, the author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor.
u2017-05-30-107	[[He puts his card in the machine.]] Excuse me, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Istova six years ago, within these walls began an unparalleledly successful investment, which at that time we did not know was actually going to be a series of investments. For the purpose of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: The later-named Imre Steindl started with no less ambition than the most important place in the past century of Hungarian history, with the need to restore Kossuth Square. Today, when we go to the square, we meet champagne life. Kossuth Square is probably the most popular attraction in the city, besides the millions of tourists visiting Budapest, it is also inhabited and loved by the people of Budapest. The good is easy to get used to, so it is almost difficult to recall the state of the Parliament in the autumn of 2011. Most of the space, well over half, was occupied by motor vehicle transport. This is where a significant part of the car traffic through Lipótváros went through, with the Hungarian Parliament, partly with more than 400 parking spaces serving the needs of the surrounding private buildings and public institutions. The hull was a cracked layer of asphalt, bearing several signs of resolution and re-repair. A dense cobweb of broken columns and cables has ruined the sight of the Parliament. As an honor, only the unconventional set of works erected in the place of the statues destroyed or insidiously condemned by vile intent, and the only abandoned statue of Rákóczi, for ideological reasons, for falsified inscriptions. The vegetation of the square was characterised by undemanding, mostly selected varieties, including many landscape and environmental alien plants, as well as spontaneous seedlings of subplants. Although the inhabitants of the area liked it, the sickly linden line before the Kossuth statue was also a symbol of decade-old stagnation, homelessness and inconclusiveness. These trees were planted here sometime in the early 1970s, because they became redundant in a road reconstruction in Buda. The decision-makers at the time probably didn't even consider what it was like to intervene harshly in the structure of the square before the House of Parliament, thus making it impossible to maintain the spatial priority of the House, the undisturbed visibility of the House, designated by Imre Steindl. I would like to illustrate the attitude that has shaped the fate of the square and the Parliament for decades with some typical examples. One of them is an unworthy country flag, which was erected in the main square of the country during the national holidays between the ranks of soldiers, often in front of the television cameras. The country banner was of poor quality, not suited to its environment, material selection or structural solutions, and its location was not adapted to either the axis of the Parliament or to the old spatial architecture system, which is clearly justified by one aspect, so that as few parking spaces as possible will have to be given up. The other is the electric track passing through the square, the trail of which was drawn decades ago in the form of technical practicality, which was cut diagonally in half, virtually mutilated the southern part of the square. Strictly technically speaking, it was the simplest, and the rest did not matter. Obviously, it didn't even occur to me that other considerations should be considered. The lack of ownership is also illustrated by the fact that there have been industrial transforming houses here and there in Kossuth Square, but also by the one-dimensional lack of technical problem-solving. But there are also examples of demonstration of the approach within the Parliament. That's what wallings inside the House are like. I would like to suggest to my fellow Members that the next time you leave this Chamber on foot to the House of Representatives, you should go downstairs and take part in Rule XVII. Don't turn your head as you approach the gate when you arrive at the Parliamentary Guard offices. You can study the most terrible traditions of fireyard architecture in the middle of Steindl's neo-gothic palace. Look up there at the ceiling, and you will be shocked to see how the beautiful plaster-stuck ceiling has been covered up, that this space has been mutilated there. For decades Kossuth tér was not a real, careful owner. The dominance of daily political aspects and short-term thinking did not show any need, and of course no money was available to care for the space, especially to consider and implement a unified, generous system of spatial architecture. The parliamentary decision on the reconstruction of Kossuth Lajos tér in Budapest, which was already quoted, ended this stagnation, behind which the district, the capital, the Parliament and the government were assembled in a long-awaited unity. [[13.30]] Thus, the work could soon begin, and it was completed with record speed. In the spring of 2014, we could walk in the completely renewed square. A generous, unified space has been created, which is part of the 21st century. With the instruments of spatial architecture of the century Steindl presents the original idea of Imre Steindl: he emphasizes the fitting frame of the building of the Parliament, which, after many decades of façade renovation, is finally in its old light. Today, we can conclude that with one exception, all the points of the parliamentary decision have been fulfilled. The underground garage was detaching the square. There was an increase in the surface of the space. And for security reasons, the section was kept to a minimum. The Parliamentary Museum, which was destroyed after 1945, was reborn. Several exhibition halls, including a memorial place to the victims of the tragic volley fire of 56, and modern visitor centers are now waiting for tourists. The artistic image of the square has also regained its old state of beauty. In the square are the statues, and only the statues that stood before the communist ruins; with one exception, the statue of Attila József was placed in the best possible place by silencers. The flood of the century could not prevent the renewal of the quay, thus creating a strong new tourist link along the Danube south. As a follow-up, the Metropolitan Municipality also plans to rebuild the phase to the Chain Bridge. Only the provisions of paragraph 3 of the decision and the placement of the executive authorities outside the legislative building have not yet been taken care of, but in the framework of the National Hausmann Plan it will soon be fulfilled, and the Parliament will be fully owned by Parliament. After the successful start, the second phase of the Steindl Imre program, the reconstruction of the spatial walls, was launched. The restoration of the southern wall began with the demolition of the former MTESZ headquarters above the Kossuth tér metro station. This house, if it was built elsewhere, might have served as a monument to an architectural era, but here, in Kossuth Square, it could not have been regarded as anything other than a visual provocation of a closed era. At its place, the program will continue with the construction of the new office building of the Parliamentary Office, which will bear the name of György Szabad, commemorating the president of the first freely elected parliament. The new office building with facade design matching the original Hültl designs is expected to be completed by the end of 2018 with the image of Kossuth tér, but in all other respects it is modern. The renovation of the facade of neighbouring apartment buildings, which are architecturally integrated with the office building, cannot be postponed. Their condition is unsatisfying, and it would not be acceptable for decades to separate the appearance of two halves of a single building block from each other. We will find a way to see these buildings soon in their original beauty. As part of the second phase, the government has set the goal of rebuilding two more buildings. One of them in the mouth of Vécsey Street is the MFB boardhouse, whose elegant rooftops were destroyed unduly at the time. The other on the other corner of the square is the old parliamentary tenement on Balassi Bálint Street, designed by Imre Steindl, from which most of the architectural motifs quoting the House of Parliament were demolished by barbaric hands, and even the statues were removed in the 1970s and probably thrown to waste. As a result of the program, both buildings will soon shine in their original light. The third phase of the Steindl Imre program involves the reconstruction of the two large public buildings that form the eastern wall of the space. The two buildings in question are the Ethnographic Museum, the ruinous block of the former Justice Palace and the building of the Ministry of Agriculture. According to the government's decision, the planning of both building reconstructions will begin in this government cycle. The fourth phase of the program will aim to rebuild the Martyrs' field. The area of the Kossuth tér is located on one of the most important tourist routes in the capital, therefore its settlement is necessary. All the buildings surrounding the space are being renewed, and it would be more than odd if we didn't care about the space. The fifth phase of the program can be seen as the restoration of barbaric transformations, wallings and mutilations within the Parliament. I've mentioned these things before. This work has already started, but it will only get a real boost after the recovery of the Free George Office. The experience of the Steindl Imre programme has shown that the prerequisite for success is the unified will of the Municipality of Budapest, the government and the Parliament, the right legislative environment and the need to start the investment only after the ownership is settled. The introduction of Kossuth tér into state property and the management of the Parliament's Office of property was a key step, which greatly facilitated the implementation of the licensing tasks of the complex investment. The bill before us includes the transfer of space to state property and property management of the Office of Parliament in order to renovate the Martyrs' Square for a similar purpose. After the completion of the construction, the continuing maintenance work is the next task, which in many cases is at least as much a challenge as the implementation of the investment. Everyone can be convinced that the Parliament's Office takes care of Kossuth tér as a good farmer, protects Kossuth tér, oversees cleaning and maintenance on a daily basis. This ownership approach guarantees that the state of the Parliament, the symbolic significance of the place and the expectations of the visitors will always prevail in the area of its own management. The 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage. In the immediate environment of the square, nothing can happen that violates the dignity of the space, the historical scenery. As a member of the National Memorial Committee, I have been collecting experiences for three years, and the legislative amendment proposal before us is largely based on them. What is included in the proposal? In particular, the rules necessary to complete the first phase of the Steindl Imre programme and prepare for the next stages. The complete closure of the investment requires some technical changes, such as the transfer of assets to municipalities. The electric track, the trolley lines, some road casings, certain elements of the public lighting were created as part of the public investment, but their logical and natural place would be in the property of the municipality. It would be strange if, for example, the books of the Parliamentary Office kept the section of the tram track passing through the square. In preparation for the reconstruction of Kossuth tér, three statues of Kossuth tér remained the property of the Municipality of Budapest: the statue of István Nagyatádi Szabó, standing in front of the right wing of the Ministry of Agriculture, as well as two statues of decorative sculptures: the Agronomus girl and the Kaszás lad. Once they're taken over by the state, they'll obviously get the same attention as the other statues of the square. The bill also includes some minor technical amendments to the operation of the National Memorial Committee. As you can see, we know that last year the municipal authorities have received strong powers in order to preserve the image of the settlement. Our proposal - because of the special one-off nature of Kossuth tér, the priority national memorial site, as a consistent follow-up to the specific regulatory environment already in place in the area - creates the priority national memorial site's environment for the protection of settlement image, and leaves the government to establish the townscape rules in this area. The boundaries of the environment for the protection of settlements will be governed by a government decree, but the intention is to include real estate directly affecting the sight of the highlighted national memorial site. These are basically the two public areas that form part of the highlighted national monument, namely the Kossuth Lajos Square and the properties that represent the immediate vicinity of the Martyrs' Square, about a corner away from the squares. Dear House, I would like to ask you to support our proposal in a similar spirit to the success of the Kossuth tér reconstruction, in order to preserve the results already achieved and to provide a legal basis for moving forward. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-30-108	Thank you very much, Congressman János Halász. On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State László Tasó.
u2017-05-30-109	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Each nation's self - esteem includes respect for its own past and its own memory. For thousands of years, hundreds of the greats of spiritual life, science, and scientists have always tried to determine the characteristics of the consciousness of the nations. According to research, the national consciousness was previously linked to religion, the ruler, or the geographical region. Today, it is said that political loyalty is more and more expressed in the concept of "the nation." Many European countries have already recognised the importance of memory and respect for national history. In Britain, for example, the memorial park commemorates the heroes of British history. In France, they salute the victims of World War II. And in the U.S., we know that in the wake of the terrorist attack in 2001, there is a national memorial site at the site of the destroyed twin towers. [[13.40]] The sites declared a national memorial are protected in every country by the law, thus honoring the nation's history, drawing attention to the importance of remembering. The issue of national and historical monuments in Hungary is the 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage. It's settled by law. This law was submitted to Parliament in 2001 by the civil government, the amendment of which introduced the concept of historical and national memorial sites in force as of 1 January 2006, which also represents a serious memory policy result in previous years. Until this amendment, in the Hungarian legal system and in the Hungarian public discourse, we used the different categories of memorials, the concept of the memorial place itself, inconsistently, possibly and without any real content. In 2011, the main purpose of the new amendment was to organize this chaotic situation. We have introduced three different categories of memorials, and we have also clearly described the criteria for each category of memorials. The widest category in this circle is historical monuments. According to the text of the law, a historic monument can be declared the built environmental or natural site that is suitable for commemoration, and where the nation's cultural life, the level of culture of our society, the protection of our country's international recognition, the country, the independence of the nation, the past-rooted, future-determining event worthy of the nation's memory, or the state's decision and action that governs the political life of the country. The Hungarian government determines the scope of historical memorial sites by decree. It is an extremely important element of the regulation that we want to encourage the individual initiatives of each site, from the application to one of the memorial lists to the cooperation programme between the sites. It is also important to encourage the application of memorial sites related to the history of nationalities in our country. The circle of national memorial sites is much narrower than the historical memorial sites, such as the Castle District in Budapest, the National Museum, the New Crab Cross, the Heroes' Square in Budapest, the Reformed Church and College in Debrecen, the scene of the Battle of Mohács or the Somogyvár-Kupavár. A national memorial can be declared the location that meets the criteria for the historic monument and, in addition, has a dominant or outstanding role in a given historical era. There is only one prominent national memorial place in Hungary, as my fellow Member, János Halász, is the Kossuth Lajos Square and its buildings. Kossuth tér is also a crucial part of the capital from an architectural and urban point of view, therefore protecting and maintaining its dignity is in the public interest. In addition, the bill also sets out the relationship between the legal institutions of the individual settlement image protection and local settlement image protection. The new rules and instruments will also ensure the uniform, historically authentic architectural and urban appearance of the highlighted national memorial site in the future. The government supports the proposal and asks the Parliament to do so. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-30-110	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr L. Simon László, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-05-30-111	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The truth is that my fellow Member, János Halász, with whom we also note the motion before you as rapporteur, has made all the points of substance. I am very pleased that my fellow Member summarized the results of the previous decision; I am also proud that I could be one of the authors of that decision myself, and I am also pleased that the many, many unworthy attacks that we received at that time not only survived, but also the time, as my fellow Member, the Fisherman, has summarized, proved our truth, and I can even say, the common truth of the nation. I remember the time when a protest was organized to save the statue of Attila József. What an unworthy time it was, what an unworthy attack it was! After all, we all knew that we really wanted to leave an excellent portrait of the poet of Hungarian literature of outstanding size and significant oeuvre in Kossuth Square, and, as my fellow Member said, the statue is in a much better place today than before. When a person walks down the national square, when a person, either as a tourist or as a Hungarian citizen, visits the square, sits down on coffee, sits down on a bench, and looks at the Parliament and its surroundings, he sees how much the transformation was necessary, how worthy, how elevated, and how well the classic architectural elements were combined with the directions and aspirations of contemporary architecture and landscape architecture. Here, too, I have to refer to the former hoosers, as we can see that the most modern, modern solutions in the square have been applied in such a way that this did not harm the environment of the Parliament and the sight of the surrounding monuments in any way, and that, in fact, this restraint, these clear contemporary motives and forms that characterize the space, tend to draw attention to the architectural values of the surrounding buildings. I am thinking in particular of the building of the Museum of Ethnography, whose renovation is still ahead of us, of course. Hopefully, after the construction of the new Ethnographic Museum, the Curia will be able to move back to the building of the present Ethnographic Museum, the wonderful building of Alajos Hauszmann. I am thinking, in particular, of the great neo-Gothic building planned by Parliament by Imre Steindl or, by the way, of the beautifully restored Ministry of Justice, which has been restored to the roofs which, as we have heard from János Halász, must be restored in the case of other buildings in the square. Of course, this not only draws our attention to the need for the reconstruction of Kossuth tér and to the continuation of this work, and not only to say that the unworthy mutilation of the building of the Hungarian Development Bank will have to be restored and restored in some way, but also to the fact that there are numerous buildings in the public squares of Budapest that, in the spirit of hypocrisy, puritanism, domes and other building and decorating elements have been removed. Of course, this was done not only for the buildings in Budapest, but also for the rural castles and mansions that have been transformed into the theaters and social institutions, where, in the spirit of their ideology, they destroyed our beautiful buildings, in the spirit of a kind of dopolaphobia, in the spirit of their ideology. So, if we are thinking of these results - and I think we are walking around Kossuth Square with legitimate pride - then we are entitled to a kind of stubborn pride because of the present proposal, and I am glad that I can be a part of this, because this work must continue, and these results will require further similar results, knowing these results behind us. Let me also point out the substance of the proposal on some issues, although I think both the Member and the Secretary of State have pointed out the merits of the proposal, but let me mention some of the essential points here too. I think this is particularly important because, as my fellow Members know, the motion before us also contains fundamental provisions, it wants to amend the laws on the protection of cultural heritage, national property and the protection of the image of settlement, so we call for a kind of national cooperation and await our opposition fellow Members, as well as their support. We have had several debates with our opposition colleagues on heritage issues, but I have to say that we can always agree with the reconstruction of the Budapest cityscape. I hope that the following opposition speakers will speak in this spirit as well. I think that a joint amendment to the fundamental provisions is in our interest and that the outcome that is expected can be a common result and pride. [[13.50]] The Parliament and its environment, as we have heard from the former Secretary of State, are one of the most important sites of our national memorial, national memory and history, as well as a crucial part of the capital, and I therefore believe that its protection, proper maintenance, preservation of dignity is in the public interest, and, in addition to this public interest, we must always stand up for us as Members. The Martyrs' Square, as you well know, with Kossuth tér is an extremely close unity from a city structure and historical point of view, so it is important that the reconstruction of the Martyrs' Square, which is long needed and worthy of Kossuth tér, can take place. We walk through the square every day and see how many foreign tourists stop at, say, the statue of Imre Nagy, taking pictures on that bridge, seeing how many people eat lunch in elegant restaurants on the surrounding streets. However, in order for the Martyrs' Square to be elegant and the patina that characterizes the historic downtown of Pest, we can show it even further, it is necessary to rebuild the Martyrs' field. Of course, an important part of the presentation before you is also the creation of uniform conditions for the treatment of monuments in architecture. My fellow Member, Mr Halász, spoke about this a long time ago, so I do not wish to mention this in detail, but only to point out that the ownership issues can finally be settled here, that some monuments will be owned by the state if the bill is supported, and that we intend to settle the property of certain monuments in such a way that, by the power of the law, it will become the property of the Municipality of Budapest. For example, the flame of the revolution, which originally did not stand on Kossuth Square, was set here later. I find your current placement in Buda fortunate, and I am pleased that this will cost you capital property. Otherwise, there are a number of memories of the revolution of 56 at Kossuth Square right now. So the ideas that we have heard earlier, that by removing the flame of the revolution, we have also violated the spirit of the revolution and its worthy record during the previous reconstruction, obviously this is not so. Think of the bullet holes in the Ministry of Agriculture building, which is an aesthetically beautiful solution, think of the new permanent exhibition, which is here in Kossuth Square. So the spirit of 56, as the governing parties have made clear in recent years in the context of the anniversary, remains important to all of us. At the same time, it is also important that the fate and the position of the monument of the Revolutionary Flame is finally settled. What is worth talking about in connection with the monuments is the portrait of István Nagyatádi Szabó in Kossuth Square, as well as the statue of the Kaszás groom and the statue of the Agronomus girl, which finally, as we have heard from my fellow Member, are placed in the management of the Parliament's wealth. And it is also quite clear that the symbolic things and the things directly related to the highlighted national memorial must be state-owned and must be managed by the Parliament, so certain elements must be transferred or returned to the capital. Such is obviously the electric track, the accessories of the trolleybus network, the sidewalk and road parts and the lighting elements of the street. They'll be in the right place at the capital. Finally, this bill settles this issue. The proposal also clarifies in the Annex to the National Property Act the scope of assets belonging to national assets of high national importance in respect of statues in Kossuth Lajos Square. As I have already said, these wealth elements are complemented by monuments that have been undeservedly destroyed during the dictatorship period and which have been quite rightly restored. We must also highlight the monument of Count István Tisza and the monument of Count Gyula Andrássy, which stand on both sides of Parliament, at the northern and southern gates. This proposal is also a fundamental provision, so we also ask for the support of our fellow opposition Members. I consider that the new rules and instruments will ensure in the future the uniform, historically authentic architectural and urban appearance of the highlighted national memorial site, and I therefore urge my fellow Members to support the presentation before you. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-05-30-112	Thank you, Congressman L. Simon László. I now give the floor to Mr Árpád Velez, the lead speaker of the group of the MSZP.
u2017-05-30-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, According to the proposal, the Parliament and its surroundings as a prominent national memorial would include Parliament's building, Kossuth Square, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ethnographic Museum, the Antall József quay and the Martyrs' Square. The Martyrs' Square would be placed in the management of the Parliament's Office's property in order to achieve a reconstruction adapted to the image of Kossuth Square. As my fellow Member, Mr Simon László mentioned, the flame of the revolution would be owned free of charge by the City Council. Among other things, the authors refer to the need to maintain and ensure the historical integrity of the monument and to facilitate the development and investment of the memorial site. The proposal defines the priority national memorial site and its environment as an area of particular importance for urban image protection, which would be defined by the government as an area of specific municipal image requirements and the means to enforce them. These would follow a pattern of principles and functions set out in the Law on the Protection of the City Image. The pro-government proposal seeks to clarify the details of the means and procedures for the protection and maintenance of the highlighted national memorial site. For us, this is a national matter, and if it is a national matter for you, then the question would be why there was no five-party consultation on this matter. [[L. Simon László: There will be!]] Why doesn't the government come forward with this bill? If there is no change in these, the Socialist Party will not be able to support this bill. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-30-114	Thank you very much, Congressman Árpád Velez. I give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-05-30-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear tableds, We, too, basically believe that the objectives set out in this bill are to be supported. We see that one of our most important tasks around the church of the nation should be Kossuth Square, a truly prominent national memorial place, which captures the greatness and history of our nation in such a way that it is clear to everyone. However, we also have serious objections to the bill. And if I have heard what our fellow Member, Mr Simon, yelled out that there will be a five-party debate on this issue, this bill, then we would be very pleased to hear it, because I do not think that certain specific problems should be discussed very much in this plenary room in front of the public of the country. Nevertheless, I'm going to tell you a few thoughts that I think are important about the fate of Kossuth Square. I would like to start with what our fellow Member Fisherman said about the unworthy conditions here in Kossuth Square a few years ago, and how beautiful the renovated Kossuth Square has become. Indeed, there is no doubt that there is significant progress in terms of the usability of space; there is undoubtedly serious progress. At the same time, I think we can safely say the item that I think is quite clear and obvious, that the image that was set out before 44 in the parliamentary resolution of 2014 at that time may not have been achieved in all respects. Here, I would particularly like to think about certain city-view, landscape-building issues, such as street furniture. Those once-standing street furniture, which I think are very much lacking for a unified image, were in a sense industrial arts masterpieces. If we go out and look around Kossuth Square, we can see that it is extremely pragmatically simplified, so that I do not say that there are demented pieces of equipment there. Let's start with the fact that the column of the flag itself is not the category to which we could say with ease and ease of heart that it is beautiful. [[14.00]] That's not good. I don't know why it had to be saved, and why, in terms of the image, it was thought that now it had to be artistic, and necessarily the XXI. Sneaking the form of a century into the sight of Kossuth Square. I would like to say now, with regard to the monument of 56 that if there is no serious change in this respect in the law, the two-thirds part, which concerns Annex 2 to the national wealth law, we will not be able to support it. So here's what I'd like to say in connection with monument 56. When it was only about the renovation of Kossuth Square and the image 44, you didn't add that it couldn't be a worthy monument to 56 in the national square, on the space level. Now, let's list what we really have to remind us of, and let's add how worthy it is or not. On the one hand, there are little bullets representing the marks of a gun in the Ministry of Agriculture. Indeed, it is a very attractive, good idea, but unfortunately, for example, it does not say anything to tourists walking around Kossuth Square. Let's see if when the tourist groups leave before him, they'll be monitoring him at all. I've seen several times that when you look at it, you think it's some kind of sports equipment, clipper, like they're little climbing dots, and I have to experience a lot of times that tourists take pictures like this. So they can't identify what that reminds me of. The other is that there is an inscription on the front wall of the cascad:, Tiportat, but we do not take away, we are persecuted, but we are not left behind, a quote from the Roman letter, but this is so small compared to the whole of space, that something is little noticeable. The third point is an exhibition space formed from a former utility tunnel, below the space level. You must understand, where the fecals had flown into the Danube earlier, a canal, in which you cut out a section and forced the memory of 56 below the ground. I think that this was, on the one hand, a very bad idea, and I remember how my grandparents, my parents, told me how the communists literally forced the memory of 56 underground. These very bad associations, I think, occur in others. No! If we think that the revolution of 56 deserves a place in Kossuth Square, then we need a decent monument. There is plenty of room in Kossuth Square to place you here, if not the flame of the Revolution, although I add that it was a fine art work, another monument before which, if delegations, heads of government and more prominent people come from abroad, they can stop and bow their heads. I think this is an extremely necessary thing. And the fact that you, before the conversion of Kossuth tér, have already moved the monument of 56 and then placed it completely elsewhere, and now we want to adapt the law to reality instead of adapting reality to the law, we demand in Hungarian that once it has been incorporated into the property law, that the flame of revolution is here, then the flame of revolution should be here, in Kossuth tér. If it's not the original, it's another one. But to have a decent monument, I have to say, this should be a national minimum requirement. And then I'd like to go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and The fate of the MESC headquarters. Please, all we are talking about is corruption, what is happening all over Hungary, and here, in our immediate environment, we do not have to go very far, look at what is happening in connection with the breakdown of the MESZ headquarters! Let me get this straight. The 2011 parliamentary resolution was about restoring the uniform image of Kossuth tér. Then a lengthy planning period begins, with countless plans, an international tender, HUF 750 million will go to the point of saying in the summer of 2016 that the item must be restored what was originally planned there. In Hungarian, the Kossuth tér is about duplication of the building on the left. So what everyone could have known in 2011 was that what belonged to the uniform image, after spending 750 million forints, it was possible to figure it out. If this 750 million HUF, which is in the budget of the Parliamentary Office, were to be spent on raising the salaries of civil servants who work here, in this house, in our environment, in order to help us do our job, at this moment, each person could take home 15 percent more. And I'm just talking about simple reason, nothing else. Then the building begins, the demolition of the MESZ headquarters. Well, for a HUF 1 billion, Viktor Orbán's friend undertook to tear this building apart, but then they remembered that, oops, something else was needed here: the metro station must be reopened. And opening this subway station cost another 100 million forints. When I asked at the Committee on Budgets about what it was, they said that there were these metal structures, these scaffoldings at the entrance of the subway, and they were surrounded by different planks, which cost 100 million forints. With all due respect, let's not be so stupid to each other. I'm sorry for the expression. But in order to break down the building above the subway station, that scaffolding had to be placed there in advance. 'Cause otherwise, the subway station's roof could've broken. Besides, it's a metal structure, it can't cost 100 million forints. With all due respect, I beg you not to let us, congressmen, within 50 meters of the nation's temple, steal our eyes. This is the money of the Parliamentary Office, which is spent here for nothing, and very poorly used. However, with the solution itself to put the original building back there, it will be pissed off, we have no problem. The Office of Parliament as a trustee performs certain tasks, and so far László Kövér has had to report to the House Committee every year on the performance of these tasks. Now you're going to erase that from this bill. Honestly, I don't understand why. In fact, why not tell us, the House Committee, the president of every faction, about how the priority national memorial is being taken care of here, what new plans are being made, how exactly they are being implemented? In fact, why do we deprive ourselves of this information? Why is it difficult for László Fat to perform this task? Honestly, I don't understand. I would like to say two more things about this. It is very right that you would like to limit certain activities in the context of the highlighted national memorial. It's okay, we can totally support that. However, I would like to state here and now that freedom of assembly and expression is one of our most fundamental constitutional rights. I'm afraid that all kinds of activities that will be further detailed in a government decree later on, what you are thinking of, must be subject to prior authorisation from the High National Memorial Commission to carry out those activities, and there is a pretty serious sanction system around it, suggesting that perhaps there may be a possibility of restricting the increasing protests and all kinds of performances in Kossuth Square and around it. [[14.10]] Undoubtedly, the MSZP fraction has just exited, and they couldn't hear it, even though I'd like to tell them, and even DK isn't here. For a year, all kinds of tents defiled the space and caused serious damage to the decorative covering. This is indeed an activity that is questionable, and I think it goes beyond freedom of assembly and expression. However, I would like the authors to reassure me that there is no such thought or ulterior motive here, which I am talking about. Finally, I would like to mention one more thing: it is a monument to the National Martyrs. When it comes to restoring the original image, it is a monument to the National Martyrs. What am I talking about? In the field of Martyrs, there once was a stone colossus, on top of which was a grave-shaped carving, before which was a woman of Hungaria, and on the other side of the statue, which looked towards Liberty Square, and there was a man who was fighting the monster of Bolshevism. Yes, indeed, the Martyrs' Square is now occupied in this sense, where the statue of Imre Nagy stands. But I think that this statue does have a place in Hungary, in the main square of the nation, I mean the monument of the National Martyrs, even because on October 31, 2018, we will remember the hundredth anniversary of the murder of István Tisza, and on this column his name was also marked with the name of hundreds of other victims, because - it was set up in 1934, by Richard Füredi - because he wanted to remind the nation of the horrors of red terror. We have a dog's duty to revive this tradition, and to place this monument somewhere, but in the national square. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] [[István Ikotity is replaced by István Szávay in the notary seat.]]
u2017-05-30-116	Thank you, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. An independent Member has not indicated his wish to speak to him. We don't have a two-minute application. Mr László L. Simon, who has just indicated his intention to speak, will give the floor for two minutes before his further speeches.
u2017-05-30-117	Thank you very much. Mr President, Very briefly. First of all, I regret that the representative of the Socialist Party has gone out, because I wanted to respond to exactly what he raised. There is a five-party meeting tomorrow, and I understand that all parliamentary parties have been invited to do so and have been confirmed. So I think it's a little weird. Obviously, we cannot solve what our fellow Member has raised to make this a government referral. It's a proposal from your representatives. In addition, it regulates issues that go beyond the powers of the government, so they are specifically related to the Parliament. So this is good, in a political sense it is good, and so it is legitimate that it was not submitted by the government, but by a Member of Parliament, and also by those who submitted the previous proposal for a resolution on the reconstruction of Kossuth tér to Parliament. That's one of my comments. So obviously we are asking my socialist fellow Members not to give us the impossible conditions, but to take part in the five-party consultation and to give their views and views there. The other thing Congresswoman said. I think that we have argued here in this House many times about whether the spirit, memory, or the role of 56 in our Hungarian history is worthy or not. I would like to send a message to Mrs Wachsler, and here I have just exchanged a message with Tamás Wachsler, with a smile, that it is not the smell of sewage that comes in, but the clear air that comes in. So it's exactly the other way around, as the congresswoman said. By the way, we know very well that we have used the places used to create new exhibition spaces, which, by the way, served Parliament in its construction, in the age of Steindl, to bring in clean air and cold air. So we're not talking about pushing 56 down into some undeserving, sewer-smelling environment. So I ask our fellow Members not to be lost in detail in this way, but to deal with the spirit of this proposal, and I think that this proposal is worthy of the Parliament, and it is worthy of the intention to continue the renewal of space and of the area of martyrs within the framework of the Steindl Imre programme. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-05-30-118	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2017-05-30-119	I just have one simple question, because we've been trying to look everywhere for it, L. Simon László said that there was a five-party negotiation in this case, and we got an invitation. [[L. Simon László: I didn't say there was.]] We can't find him. [[L. Simon László: I said there will be.]] Oh, that's what it's gonna be. We'll, we'll, we'll, we'll, we'll, we'll, we'll, we'll, we'll, we'll, we'll, we'll talk. This is usually done by sitting down in front of him, talking about it, and then it would be a lot easier to have these debates, which might have had misunderstandings or anything else, which could have been saved if it had been sooner. That's because we got it wrong. [[L. Simon László: Bad.]] So we haven't received a call for this yet. We hope and await the invitation to attend such a meeting. [[János Halász: Read a letter! Read e-mail.]]
u2017-05-30-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. [[Dr. István Apáti: If we don't get it, we can't read it.]] Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches.]] I would like to ask if one of the authors wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Don't yell, Congressman, with all due respect. [[Dr. István Apáti: Don't make fun of him.]] So I'm asking if any of the authors would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman János Halász.
u2017-05-30-121	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I'll just be careful that my head doesn't get blown off by the verbal communication of György Szilágyi. Here's the deal with the five-party negotiations. This is a bill that we presented as individual representatives, and the Cultural Committee discussed the inclusion of the series yesterday. The chairman of the Cultural Committee is Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik. As it happens, on a next item on the agenda at the committee meeting, Mrs Hegedűs was sitting there yesterday when I was rapporteur at the committee meeting. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: She went after him!]] My fellow Members were there at the committee meeting, and it is also in the minutes, and I said that we will have a meeting on Wednesday at 10 a.m. In those moments, the invitation was sent to all the faction leaders by my colleagues, and tomorrow, Wednesday, we will have a five-party meeting. And how fortunate it was that the committee meeting was earlier, and not the five-party consultation, because at the committee meeting there was a total of one person, no one from any of the better people or the socialists spoke to it. Szabolcs Szabó, an independent representative of the Association as a party, so we were able to extend the discussion to six parties, he already gave his opinion there, which was not at all so whiny, arrogantly offensive, sometimes understanding as yours - sorry that I rated [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: It's bad enough that you've been so qualified.]] - but he was very, very understanding about it. So much for five-party negotiations. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] So it is not unfortunate at all that we will have this five-party discussion tomorrow, but I can see from your tempest, Congressman, that you are just looking for an opportunity not to support this proposal. [[Dr. István Apáti: Where did you learn the arrogance in SZDSZ?]] That's the problem. And here's the problem. Congresswoman here spoke of a decision preparation of 750 million forints. It wasn't the decision preparation, it was the entire cost of the demolition, Congresswoman. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: No, it wasn't!]] In addition, you obviously need to know that the High National Memorial Committee no longer has the power, by virtue of the law, to deal with matters falling within the scope of the Assembly Act. So the problem, the circle of thought you've raised, can't be realized, because that's what our laws are like. So the thing is, I hope that we will be able to clarify more issues at the five-party meeting, because I fully agree with the Congresswoman that there are many details that should be clarified there. But since the process of the case is such that it can be dealt with even in the TAB phase, even in the legislative committee phase, we are very open to what we can get after what has been said in the five-party. By the way, about the flame of the Revolution monument, so much so that it has been repositioned, and the stakeholders, the organisations of 56 and the heir to the artist's rights agree with this new place. I would therefore not open this debate, and I find it very appropriate that there is such a worthy commemoration and remembrance of this very important national issue. And the representative of the MSZP was talking about the five-party. Apparently, the news didn't get to them either, even though the chairman of the party's election was sitting at the cultural committee meeting, István Hiller, when I indicated that there would be a five-party meeting, the vice-president, Ágnes Kunhalmi, was sitting at the committee meeting when I indicated that she would be a five-party on Wednesday at 10 a.m. We need to talk to each other, Congressmen, ladies, and the e-mails we send you are worth reading. But we're all waiting for the five-party. And then again, why didn't the government file it? This is indeed a proposal that goes beyond the powers of the government on several points. [[14.20]] It's not a matter of government, it's a matter of Parliament. I do think it is right and good, as my fellow Member, L. Simon László, said, that those who had tabled the proposal for a decision are represented among the present authors, and that the Highest National Memorial Committee, where I am a Member, is also represented. We have gathered from experience there all that is included in this amendment of the law. I hope that the initial excitement, after what has been said, will be able to go beyond our usual debates, let us try, because there is indeed a proposal before us that will help us to preserve the dignity of this space, of this place, which we can do together. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-30-122	Thank you, Congressman János Halász. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The general discussion of the draft law on the organisation of the 67th session of the European Regional Committee of the World Health Organisation between the Government of Hungary and the World Health Organization, to be held in Budapest, Hungary, from 11 to 14 September 2017 will follow. The government referral is T/155553. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Gustáv Ónodi-Szűcs, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-30-123	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. I do not want to abuse your patience because it is a technical proposal. However, I think that everyone in this House agrees that this conference, which came to Hungary, is definitely the country's success. I am very pleased that we managed to achieve this compared to 15 as we decided in September 15 that we would like to invite this conference to Hungary, Budapest, which will now take place. There has already been a government decision on where the costs of this will be financed. That's okay, too. It is only in a technical sense that the Government's decision must be approved by the Parliament. I would like to ask honourable Members to support my proposal. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-30-124	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Mihály Balla, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-05-30-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I am also trying to keep my thoughts short, because it is an excellent event that the agreement tabled is aimed at deepening cooperation between the WHO, the UN World Health Organisation and the Government. It is related to this, one of the stages of this is the organisation of the 67th WHO meeting in Budapest between 11 and 14 September. The organisation of this has already been agreed in a template agreement developed by the WHO for these conferences, and this has been signed by the government. However, due to a formal requirement, Parliament has to approve this. In fact, this is also important because WHO is a specialised UN institution, so its members are entitled to diplomatic privileges and exemptions. Only the Parliament is entitled to authorise contracts which include clauses relating to diplomats. That is why we need to decide on this bill. I ask for the support of my fellow Members and thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-30-126	Thank you, Congressman Mihály Balla. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-05-30-127	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP faction supports the proposal because we consider that it coincides with the Hungarian national interests, and what Mihály Balla said is shared by us. So I wouldn't want to waste any time. I agree with him and we will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-30-128	Thank you, Congressman Attila Mesterházy. I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Rig, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-05-30-129	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, you were right: there will be no debate in this. I do not think that the lead speaker of any parliamentary group will start dealing with other health problems, because that is not what this proposal is about. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary, as has been the case, continues to support all the proposals and legislative proposals on WHO. We will therefore support both this bill and the next bill. My speech as a keynote speaker will not be longer than the text of the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-05-30-130	Thank you very much, Congressman Rig. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Independent congressman hasn't applied for a statement. No two-minute speeches and no further speeches. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed, and Mr Secretary of State indicates that he is pleased that he does not wish to respond to what was said in the debate, because there was no debate at all. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Now, Honourable Parliament, we now have a general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Basic Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the World Health Organisation on the establishment of professional advisory cooperation relations until closure. The government referral is T/15578. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2017-05-30-131	Mr President, Dear House, Again, I do not want to burden this House with much time. This proposal is a cooperation that has actually been going on for a very long time. They should know that the WHO tries to conclude such a contract with all its Member States. This is different from country to country, we have a contract like this. The most important content of the contract is that it defines the framework for cooperation. I would like to reassure everyone that it does not affect Hungary's sovereignty. Actually, this contract is all about counseling. It can be terminated at any time. I think, and so far, WHO cooperation will not affect our relations in the future. I would like to ask this House to support the approval of the treaty. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-30-132	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Mihály Balla, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-05-30-133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In particular, I think it is important that we speak on this matter, because a framework agreement for cooperation between the WHO, the United Nations World Health Organisation and the Government, I think, is important for all of us, because life has shown many times in recent times that international cooperation, even cooperation, is necessary to ensure close cooperation in the case of various viral infections crossing borders or even in the case of various public health epidemics. In this cooperation relationship, in the basic agreement, the country is also given the opportunity, in particular, that the professional agreement to be concluded would enable research in Hungary to be beneficial to us as well. The location, the infrastructure, we provide, the research costs and, in many cases, the technical background would be provided by the WHO. In addition to its equipment, WHO would make its advisers available to the government. WHO is also committed to training our experts, i.e. the basic agreement before us is a condition for the cooperation that has been achieved. In return, of course, the data, statistics, research results that are also relevant to other countries will be made available. [[14.30]] The contribution, given the knowledge of Hungarian researchers and the equipment of the WHO, will provide mutual benefits, it may be said that there will be a win-win negotiation situation, especially on our part, in light of the fact that we will be able to participate in the research network of a global organisation. I would like your support for this, because the Fidesz faction clearly supports this, and I trust that other factions will be supportive. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-30-134	Thank you, Congressman Mihály Balla. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-05-30-135	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This basic agreement aims to ensure that the contracting parties coordinate their activities even more effectively, thereby helping them to respond to common health challenges at our country level. The agreement therefore allows for further deepening of cooperation between Hungary and the World Health Organisation. With this basic agreement, there is an opportunity to increase cooperation between our country and the WHO European Regional Bureau and to make more use of the knowledge and knowledge available to the parties at all times in the future. For this reason, the Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group supports the adoption of this bill for national reasons. There was also an idea in the faction that if this knowledge could be promoted in some way at home, so that it could be made available to the general public, or even to Members here in the commission to give a report on how, in what form, this cooperation has deepened, it might be useful for everyone, perhaps this should be considered by the government. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2017-05-30-136	Thank you, Congressman Attila Mesterházy. I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Rig, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-05-30-137	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'm trying to be almost shorter than the last bill. I think that the advice, the good advice, must be adopted, used and operated, and I think that this proposal, this bill, is about this. I wish the Government good luck in implementing these plans. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary will support this bill. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-30-138	Thank you, Congressman Rig. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. First up, I don't see an independent congressman on the screen. There is no application for two minutes' speeches and for further speeches. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I ask the author if he wishes to live... [[Dr. Zoltán Gustáv Ónodi-Szűcs: No, thank you.]] He indicated that he did not wish to make use of the opportunity to speak. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the draft law on the temporary importation of goods, in Istanbul, on 26 June 1990, on the publication of an amendment to Annex A, pending closure. The government referral is T/155550. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda.
u2017-05-30-139	Mr President, Dear Parliament, In order to simplify and harmonise customs procedures and to facilitate the conduct of a customs procedure for temporary importation, the Istanbul Convention on temporary importation of goods was adopted on 26 June 1990. On 25 June 1991 Hungary signed the Convention, deposited the instrument of ratification on 28 April 2004, and the Annexes thereto entered into force on 28 July 2004 in respect of our country. The Istanbul Convention allows the use of uniform international documents for the customs procedure for temporary importation in the customs territory of all Contracting Parties to the Convention. Temporary importation is a customs procedure under which certain goods, including means of transport, may be admitted conditionally to the customs territory of a country free of payment of import duties and taxes, without the application of an import ban or economic restriction. Accordingly, international documents containing uniform standards for temporary importation have brought significant benefits in international trade in goods and have ensured the simplification and harmonisation of customs procedures. In addition to the application of customs legislation, the introduction of uniform documents was also intended to facilitate the customs procedure for temporary importation from an economic, humanitarian, cultural, social or tourist point of view by simplifying and coordinating procedures. The standardised international document set out above is the ATA card and the CPD card. Those two documents are necessary when certain goods are intended to be presented at a foreign exhibition or at a fair, or their own work equipment or means of transport are also required abroad, and should therefore be used temporarily in another country for a certain period of time. The CPD card allows the temporary importation of means of transport, while the ATA card may be used as a customs document for the other goods specified in the Istanbul Convention. The ATA ID is issued by the Chambers of Commerce of the States Parties to the Istanbul Convention, so in Hungary this task is carried out by the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, while the international issue of CPD IDs is managed by the International Tourism Association and the International Automotive Association, but there is currently no body in Hungary to issue this ID. The CPD card serves as a quasi passport for means of transport which enters a country where the use of the card is required without paying customs duties and other charges. CPD IDs are no longer required in North America or in most European countries, but this form is still required or applied in 78 countries in other parts of the world. At the same time, the CPD card should be accepted in all Member States of the European Union, including in Hungary, provided that it has been issued in a Contracting Party by an authorised entity and that the holder of the CPD requests that it be treated as a customs document. The CPD card is important not only because it functions as a customs document, but also because it provides customs cover for the payment of any amounts of customs duties that may arise. On the basis of a document issued by an issuing association, each guaranteeing association undertakes to pay the customs authorities import duties and taxes and all other amounts in the event of non-compliance with the conditions of the customs procedure in respect of goods brought into the territory of one of the Contracting Parties. Accordingly, it is important that the provisions of the document are clear and clear to both the holder of the CPD card and the customs authorities which accepted it. Accordingly, the Administrative Commission of the Istanbul Convention to the World Customs Organisation has developed amendments to the International Convention on the Temporary Import of Goods in relation to CPD passports. The amendment provides for the possibility to issue a card which has so far been completed in English and French only in another combination of the official language of the United Nations, provided that one of the two languages used is English or French. Hungary is an active contracting party to the international convention on which the bill is based. The amendment is of a technical nature. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-30-140	Thank you, Mr András Tállai State Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be followed by the speaker's speeches and those who have indicated their intention to speak. First, I give the floor to Mr Árpád Velez, the lead speaker of the group of the MSZP.
u2017-05-30-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Istanbul Convention's Administrative Commission has tabled an amendment to the Convention in respect of the provision in Appendix 2 to the Annex which has so far determined that the CPD card should be printed in English and French. [[14.40]] According to the amendment, the CPD card completed so far in English and French, the temporary import document for temporary importation of means of transport, may be printed in another combination of the official language of the United Nations, provided that one of the two languages used is English or French. The Socialist Party supports this bill.
u2017-05-30-142	Thank you, Congressman Árpád Velez. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-05-30-143	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Well, this proposal is not a very long and not a very serious subject, but obviously it is important in your area. In fact, according to the Istanbul Convention, there is a certificate, the so-called CPD card, which has been required to be issued in English and French, now this certificate can be issued by means of an amendment, that it can be an English or French language, and the other, who participate in it, can be used in one of the languages of the Member States, which will be the official language. So this is the whole point of the amendment, but it is quite difficult to understand what it means to import goods temporarily. So, obviously, you rarely encounter this, what is the temporary import of goods. Mr Tallai Secretary of State has already spoken about this. 3004/2014 issued by the National Tax and Customs Office. Guide No 3 sets out what this means. Temporary importation is a customs procedure which allows the use of non-Community goods intended for re-export under exemption from total or partial import duties in the customs territory of the Union without going through any change other than normal depreciation for use. So when it works out, even if it goes out, then you don't have to pay a duty; if you go out, that's the point. This product can be kept in the country for a maximum of 24 days in such a temporary import form, at least in accordance with Hungarian rules, but this deadline can be extended. The point is that since no duty is imposed, this cannot be sold, it cannot be leased, it cannot be leased, it cannot be leased, it cannot be used for others. If this happens, the duty will then be imposed. So the point is that the certificate will then not be compulsory in English and French, but in English or French and another language. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-30-144	Thank you, Congressman Csaba Gyüre. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There is neither an independent Member nor a two-minute speaker; there is no other speaker. Therefore, Honourable Parliament, the general debate is closed. I ask the author if he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] No. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. A general debate on the draft law on the publication of an amendment to the Customs Convention of 14 November 1975 on the international carriage of goods by TIR pass will follow. The government referral is T/155551. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda.
u2017-05-30-145	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Customs Convention of 14 November 1975, hereinafter referred to as the TIR Convention, concerning the international carriage of goods by TIR means, shall be applied in practice by Hungary from 1978. The TIR Convention allows goods which are subject to suspension of duties and duties to cross national borders during transport by road, at least one stage, with minimal intervention by the customs authorities. The TIR system promotes the development of international trade and the reduction of delays in traffic by reducing the traditional barriers to international movement of goods. The main advantage of the system is that the TIR Convention provides relatively simple access to the guarantees required for the carriage of goods through the international guarantee chain, in the event that goods launched by the customs authorities of one Contracting Party are not presented to the customs authorities of the other Contracting Party. The single international guarantee chain is currently supported by the Geneva-based NGO, the International Association of Road Transporters, the IRU's administration, the large international insurance companies and the executive body of the TIR, which also meets in Geneva. The TIR Convention has been amended in different sections since 1978, 31 times in total. As with other customs transit procedures, the TIR system has also become a target of abuse and fraudulent behaviour. In recent years, therefore, in view of the problems caused by misleading behaviour, the review process has been more intensively targeted at the rights and obligations of the parties concerned in order to improve the effectiveness of the system's procedures and formalities. For this reason, the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe has developed this amendment to the Geneva Customs Convention governing the international carriage of goods by TIR means. This amendment provides a legal basis for, on the one hand, the obligation to notify to the TIR Executive Body which supervises the implementation of the Convention complementary measures of a national nature, initiated by the customs authorities of the Contracting Parties to the TIR Convention, which control the transit procedure. This was necessary because certain contracting parties arbitraryly and unilaterally introduced measures at the customs border of their own country which caused delays and unjustified costs to freight operators, making export processes in that country more difficult. The other purpose of the amendment is to introduce in the TIR Convention a new design for road vehicles and containers with sliding roofs or slippers. In addition to the existing options, this also offers a maximum guarantee for customs administrations, as the goods carried by TIR means must be transported in customs safe vehicles or containers. This transport technique will increase the effectiveness and efficiency of road transport. Hungary is an active contracting party to the international convention on which the bill is based. The number of TIR passports issued by the Hungarian guaranteeing association on an annual basis is about 20 thousand pieces, with a volume of which Hungary is an international part of the middle field. The number of persons authorised to use the TIR ID recognised by the Hungarian guaranteeing association can be estimated at 1500, which shows that the opportunities offered by the TIR system are actively applied by Hungarian farmers. These amendments are of a technical nature but contribute to a more uniform and harmonious operation of the TIR system. That is why I ask the honourable Parliament, the honourable Members, to support the bill.
u2017-05-30-146	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Árpád Velez, the lead speaker of the group of the MSZP.
u2017-05-30-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, At its 61st meeting, the TIR Convention Management Committee adopted amendments to Annexes 2, 6, 7 and decided to enter into force on 1 January 2017 pursuant to Article 60 of the Convention. The proposal to amend Annex 6 to the TIR Convention will clarify the obligation of the Contracting Parties to the Convention. It specifies that national control measures affecting the operation of the TIR system must be notified to TIReX B. The proposal to amend Annexes 2 and 7 to the TIR Convention introduces a new design of vehicles and containers in the TIR Convention, while offering a maximum guarantee for customs administrations, since goods carried with TIR pass must be transported in customs safe vehicles or containers. [[14.50]] This transport technique will increase the effectiveness and efficiency of road transport, and is therefore supported by the Socialist Party parliamentary faction.
u2017-05-30-148	Thank you, Congressman Árpád Velez. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-05-30-149	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The speakers before me today have already said that this decision has been made by the administration committee of the TIR Convention, how in future the annex to the TIR Transport Act or Convention will be amended, which will also become effective in Hungary if the Parliament accepts and announces this. We have received a rather unconventional draft, and the Annex to this Convention sets out how road transport trucks carrying TIR-mark goods transiting through countries and not to be customs cleared in that country need to be safely and properly closed, which kind of insurance should be applied to the rear part of the tarpaulin or on the rear hold of the transport truck, which makes it virtually impossible to open the cargo space so that it does not appear to the customs authorities. So when a tarp section is closed, the wires are drawn, fixed and sealed. This legislation, as I said, contains in detail, in the area of drawings, how to place them, how to fix them, how to place the wires, how to place the closing parts, so as not to be able to obtain the goods without making it noticeable to the customs authorities. Of course, in order to ensure the safety of trade in goods, so that goods cannot be excluded from customs clearance in those countries, it is in every country's primary interest not to include goods which do not go through customs and therefore do not impose customs duties on them. I therefore believe that this is also to be supported and acceptable. So the Jobbik Movement for Hungary obviously supports this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-30-150	Thank you, Congressman Csaba Gyure. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There is no further speaker for an independent Member, a two-minute speaker, and therefore the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to comment. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. A general debate on the draft law on the publication of a multilateral agreement between the competent authorities on the exchange of country-by-country reports will follow. The government referral T/155552. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda.
u2017-05-30-151	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill aims to implement the automatic exchange of tax information through the publication of a multilateral agreement between the competent authorities for the exchange of country-by-country reports. By signing this agreement, which was concluded by Hungary in December 2016, we have committed ourselves to taking part worldwide in the fight against tax base erosion and profit shifting through an automatic exchange of information for tax transparency. The agreement currently has nearly 60 signatories, including the majority of EU Member States, and this circle is constantly expanding. The main purpose of the bill is to provide information to the tax authority through tax relevant data relating to the activities of multinational groups of companies. On the basis of the agreement, NAV will automatically exchange data received from multinational groups subject to reporting in Hungary with the tax authorities of the States participating in the agreement. This information will enable States to take appropriate risk analysis and tax control against the phenomenon of tax evasion and avoidance and to explore the artificial transfer of profits for certain businesses. By signing the agreement, there will be a greater degree of tax transparency at global level, which could encourage multinational groups to comply with their tax liability to the extent required by law in the country, including in Hungary, where profits are obtained. Improving the transparency of multinational groups is therefore an essential part of the fight against tax base erosion and profit shifting. The bill before Parliament creates obligations for the Hungarian tax-based reporting organisation of multinational groups. The most important of these obligations is that the reporting entity of the multinational group has to submit a so-called country-by-country report for each financial year with a specific data content. The reporting entity may be the ultimate parent undertaking itself, the entity designated to the parent undertaking or, in specific circumstances, a group member. In the country-by-country report, multinational companies shall provide the amount of group revenue, pre-tax profit, and the profit tax paid and payable for each State in which they are engaged in business. MNEs should also provide data on their number of employees, their subscribed capital, accumulated profits and tangible assets for the State in which they operate. Finally, such groups of companies should indicate all entities belonging to the group that are engaged in business in that State and indicate the business activities of those entities. In order to facilitate the efficient use of public resources and to reduce the administrative burden on companies, only multinational groups of companies whose annual consolidated income exceeds EUR 750 million are subject to regulation. The tax authority shall forward the reports thus received to all States in which, on the basis of the information contained in the country-by-country report, one or more entities of the multinational group have or are liable for tax on the basis of their business. Of course, in the context of the exchange of information, the tax authority not only sends but also receives such reports, thereby providing information. The information received will enable States to act against the phenomenon of tax evasion and avoidance by amending legislation, risk analysis and tax control, thereby encouraging multinational companies to cease their recent expansion of their cross-border tax planning activities. It is important to point out that, in line with the agreement, the European Union has also adopted a directive requiring the preparation and exchange of country-by-country reports, which will be transposed by Article XXXVII of 2013. Parliament's meeting on 3 May 2017 has already taken place with the adoption of an amendment to the Act. Given the importance of ensuring consistency between the rules of the European Union and those resulting from the Agreement, the law transposing the EU Directive, which has been published since then, also contains the implementing rules of this Agreement. To simplify, this EU directive allows for the compilation of country-by-country reports and the exchange of tax administrations for EU countries, while the agreement allows for the exchange of country-by-country reports for non-EU countries. [[15.00]] With this agreement, Hungary is currently able to establish an exchange of information on country-by-country reports with some 30 other countries other than the Member States of the European Union. Dear Parliament, With all due respect, support the bill.
u2017-05-30-152	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Árpád Velez, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2017-05-30-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The main purpose of the agreement is to promote international tax compliance through mutual tax assistance based on automatic exchange of annual corporate reports. On the basis of the agreement, the Hungarian State tax and customs authorities shall exchange, in a mutually automatic manner, so-called country-by-country reports from multinational companies resident in their territory for tax purposes with the tax authorities of the signatory States in which a member of the multinational group is resident or subject to tax. This is conditional on States participating in the exchange of information having adequate safeguards and infrastructure for an effective reporting link. The Socialist Party supports this.
u2017-05-30-154	Thank you very much, Congressman Árpád Velez. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-05-30-155	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Fellow Members! Dear Parliament, Since the establishment of the Jobbik Hungary Movement, he says that strict compliance with the tax rules against multinational companies in Hungary and the Jobbik Hungary Movement has always expressed his view that the burdens in Hungary are not generally borne equally by citizens, companies and multinational companies. We have always felt, especially during the period of socialist governance, that multinational companies enjoy certain privileges, privileges they have acquired on a number of occasions, which the same Hungarian businesses, the same Hungarian companies, unfortunately, could not receive. We thought there'd be a change in that. It was also verbal, the government calling itself national was also trying to make people believe such changes that the support of Hungarian citizens is now clearly on the agenda here in Hungary. In contrast, in the last budget debate, it was my colleague György Szilágyi who described in detail how tax burdens are again being removed from multi-company companies and transferred to private individuals, whether by increasing levies or increasing taxes, by increasing the fees, taxes and levies to be recovered. Or we can also talk about the fact that, as my colleague György Szilágyi pointed out in the current budget law, the fines imposed on individuals again, if I remember correctly, were designed to increase 25-28 percent, and this is again a burden on individuals. So we have, and will - at least this was the government and the governments before it - in Hungary regarding the fact that the burdens are not evenly distributed, and multinational companies are in a constantly privileged position with Hungarian companies, with regard to similar Hungarian businesses. My fellow Member, Márton Gyöngyösi, has repeatedly explained here in the Hungarian Parliament that he has calculated the subsidies for multinational companies, for example, in relation to investments that create jobs. When the Hungarian Socialist Party was in the government, if I remember correctly, there was around HUF 6.5-7 million of investment state aid for multinational companies creating jobs per capita, while under the Fidesz-KDNP government, since the current government change in 2010, this went up to HUF 12.7 million/person. So it can be observed that the support of the multi-company was much higher during the Fidesz-KDNP government period, much higher. Now there is not even a national law on the House's table, nor is the government proposing that we introduce this new system, but an agreement that is now being established by many countries, which should be part of Hungary. In any case, we support the fact that tax revenues may increase as a result of transparency and the tightening of taxation rules vis-à-vis a multinational company. It is very important for the State to recover the taxes due to the State to be declared. This agreement, which, if adopted by the Parliament, will be announced and will enter into force, will be an instrument of this. We consider it very important that tax transparency be improved with regard to multinational companies. We consider it important that the report covers the amount of turnover that should be transmitted to the Contracting States, i.e. the amount of turnover, the profit before tax, the profit tax paid, the income tax due, the subscribed capital, the accumulated profits, the number of employees and the tangible assets, thus covering them. I think that, in any event, transparency will be better, and that the taxation of multinational companies will be better understood by the public bodies to do so. I therefore believe that this proposal should be supported. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-30-156	Thank you, Congressman Csaba Gyure. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No independent congressman came forward. No two-minute speakers. No further Members made themselves known. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] No. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time to speak after the agenda. After the agenda, István Szávay Jobbikos, mr. I give the floor to the notary in five minutes.
u2017-05-30-157	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I'm glad someone's staying with the government. 150 years ago, yesterday, it was quite 150 years ago that the Hungarian Parliament adopted the so-called law of common cause, the great work of Ferenc Deák and his political contemporaries, about the dualist restructuring of the Habsburg empire. That's when the Austro-Hungarian-Monarchy came into being... [[András Tállai goes to the Fidesz expert box and listens standing.]] According to its judges, much more could have been achieved from this compromise, perhaps greater independence, greater state autonomy. As a historian, I believe that a realistic compromise has been reached based on the mutual interest of the two empires, which, although accompanied by a waiver of certain elements of state independence, has put Hungary on a calm path of development, making our country a European, Central European power. The continuation of passive resistance in the second industrial revolution in Europe would have already been a fatal lag for Hungary. This was also prevented by the compromise, but it was also in Austria's interest, as in previous wars the Austrian Empire weakened, suffered a decisive defeat at Solferino, Magenta, and then in 1866 at Königgratz, Russia. Austria, too, needed Hungary, there was a need for reconciliation in order for the Habsburg empire to continue to be a European great power, a European leader. We therefore believe that the compromise was a realistic compromise at a good time, a very important and outstanding event in the history of Hungary over the past centuries. [[15.10]] Lajos Kossuth attacked the settlement from a distance and criticized his former friend Ference Deák. In his famous Cassandra letter, he wrote to his friend: "We were friends," he said, in a slightly different tone than today's public address. That's what President Áder talked about in his inauguration speech, so let me refer you back to it. So, Kossuth then wrote to Ferenc Deák: "Don't take the nation to the point of which the future can no longer master." I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The assessment of reconciliation among both contemporary and subsequent generations has been controversial to this day, and could be the subject of debates. Some people put it that way, if I remember correctly, Endre Bajcsy-Zsilinszky, that in connection with the compromise Ferenc Deák was and Lajos Kossuth was right. At the same time, I think it's an exaggeration to say that the compromise was a direct consequence of Trianon. It is an exaggeration to say what Kossuth wanted to say that nationalities should be agreed on instead of the ruling house, as this will break the framework of historic Hungary. The framework of historic Hungary was not broken up by the compromise, but rather by the rigidity of the compromise, the intransparency, the fact that the system of reconciliation, largely thanks to József Ferenc, could not be changed in the next fifty years. In many cases, the debate between the government and the opposition was only about false problems and irrelevant disputes, such as the issue of the language of conduct; even when the opposition broke up the House of Representatives of the newly built Parliament and its equipment. I think that the current government is dealing with an extremely constructive opposition, and we must note that. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] However, it is very sad that the system of national cooperation is about reconciliation, one of the most important, great events in the history of Hungary in the last two hundred years, about the event that contributed to the unparalleled development, economic development and other developments of the 19th century. It happened at the end of the century, he doesn't remember. Even though we know that anniversaries are important, we have remembered many important anniversaries in recent years. Thus, the lack of such a memorial is even more striking. It seems to you that there is no positive message of agreement; your governance over the last seven years was not about compromise, not agreement, not compromise. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's right!]] but that political opponents should be trampled and everyone else who has a different opinion. Obviously, for this course, this anniversary has one bad message, and even an agreement with Austria [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It can set out bad policy directions. I think we'll do the right thing. [[The president's ringing again.]] If we govern with the people, with the people. That is what I would like to draw your attention to. We will certainly do so after 2018. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-05-30-158	Thank you, Congressman Savay, notary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speech after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. I wish you a restful good day. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 3:13 p.m.]]
