u2017-04-18-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] I welcome my fellow Members with respect and affection. The 15th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. The pre-meeting speeches will follow. Let's get some clean water in the tub. Time to wash your hands, Prime Minister. Mr Bertalan Tóth, the leader of the group, has applied for a speech before the agenda entitled "The EESC's Group." Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2017-04-18-1	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, The political system that refuses to negotiate with the organized forces of society can only blame itself when it is shot at, but only for itself. And it's not the shooters who have to be responsible, it's those who refuse to negotiate with the peaceful ones, acknowledge them and let them work. This was said 30 years ago by a former Soros Scholar, whose first name is Viktor. Even though we asked John last week not to sign the CEU law, he did. And not acquitted of the accusation of cowardice, but even he added that there was a need for dialogue and negotiation. No wonder, then, about the wave of protests over the past few weeks, as the aging Fidesz declared war on young people. He declared war on universities, declared war on the European Union, and declared war on civil society, because this former Soros scholar will not tolerate anything that does not depend on him. He doesn't want this country to have a university, a school, an institution that doesn't depend on him. He doesn't want any civil society organizations he doesn't fund. He does not want anyone to take account of freedom, Europeanism and democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, The wave of protests over the past few weeks is a sign that the glass is getting full, that people can see through. You can see that there are two worlds against each other here: the world of knowledge is against the world of theft; the world of achievement is against the world of my brother. The Democratic world is against stupid self and lying oppression. The world of freedom-loving people faces the world of Fidesz. More and more people understand that with serialisation there will be no more jobs in Hungary; it is impossible to make a living on migrantism. Fidesz's hate doesn't make education any better, our hospitals don't get better, people don't live better. Hatred does not make Hungary a better place. I would like to make it clear once again that we are not a half-Asian people. Hungary wants to belong to the European value community, the modern Western, developed Europe. Accordingly, the MSZP stands in favour of civil society and the CEU, as well as a crowd of protestors who stand in favour of freedom of education. He's talking about organizing former Soros scholarship background powers. But, fellow Members, who is building a background power for foreign interests here? No other than Fidesz: he's doing a coup against his own people in the interest of Putin. Because whose interest is the Orbán-Putin Pact? Whose interest is it for Hungary to become indebted to Russia for 30 years through an ever-reimbursing big investment? Certainly not Hungary's. Whose interest is it to decompose EU unity? Certainly not Hungary's. Whose interest is it for the national consultation portal software to display the measuring code of the company cooperating with the Russian secret services? Whose interest is it that the data of Hungarian voters should be transferred to Russia? It's certainly not in the interests of the Hungarian people. Whose interest is it to create a unique database for a foreign-owned private company about the utility and banking conditions of Hungarian people and companies? This is not in the interests of the Hungarian people either. Ladies and gentlemen, That itchy-handed gentleman and his associates will have to account for this in 2018. The sooner we wash your hands, the sooner the cleansing begins. For our future, for Hungary! Thank you for your attention.
u2017-04-18-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-18-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, As far as protests over the past few days are concerned, I would also like to say to you that we live in a free country; Hungary is a democracy where everyone is free to express their views and organise protests and flash mobs. [[Zoltán Grimlock: They will follow him for days at the most!]] You can spin till dawn on Oktogon if you like. And what makes a big difference to your government is that no one has to be afraid that the cops are gonna go after him, shoot him, or lock him up just because he protested peacefully. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: They don't want to break anything! They're peaceful protesters, not middle B...]] Freedom of speech and assembly, Madam honourable Member, is not, however, an authorisation for acts of violence. It is not, for example, an authority to destroy public buildings and monuments, as Márton Gulyás, who has become increasingly deranged, did. The freedom of opinion does not extend to the destruction of the House of Terror, for example, which commemorates heroes who gave their lives for Hungarian freedom. Freedom of assembly doesn't mean a blank cheque for assaulting press staff like it did with the public TV crew. I'm bringing this here because the left is very encouraging this aggression. For example, the reheated SZDSZ, head of the Momentum, says to harass journalists that everyone gets what they deserve. Márton Gulyás threatens labor camps, Hungarian Bálint dreams of an orange revolution, and according to Gábor Demszky [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Viktor Orbán has itchy palms! The president's ringing the bell.]] ways of resisting must be worked out. Perhaps one way of resisting is by insulting [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: We have to clean up the civilians...]] Reporters who ask questions he doesn't like. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You are the bald government! The bald steering wheel is the Fidesz!]] [[13.10]] The line is not yet complete, honourable Member: Viktor Szigetvári meditated on it [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Just so you can hear!]] "that it will be difficult to remove the government with peaceful means," I quoted. According to Ákos Hadházy - he is unfortunately not with us now - if they do not gain power, then only the revolution can come after 2018. It is the man who, on 15 March, compared those who disagree with him with a noble simplicity to a worm. I'm closing the incomplete line, say, with Tordai Bence, who once campaigned that there might be a different policy, but now he can't necessarily condemn it. [[Dr. László Varga: Why do you answer on paper?]] If someone is destroying symbolic buildings, understand, the office of the President of the Republic. If that's the way politics is, thank you very much, we don't want any of it. Dear Chief of Staff, I'm only telling you this because left-wing parties have a lot of responsibility for giving way to violence. [[Dr. László Varga: Have you figured out what you're saying in advance?]] The blind can see that today there is a campaign rehearsal in Hungary, and this is the main test of billionaires. Many of those devices are used in this rehearsal [[Agnes Kunhalmi: The Oligarchs' rehearsal!]] And they're gonna use me. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: The rehearsal of your oligarchs!]] which, luckily, have not been part of the Hungarian public life. And for this rehearsal, we also see that one of its main themes will be immigration. [[Dr. László Varga: Who is printed for him, he didn't know what he was going to say!]] However, there is now a clearer picture that the organisations supported from abroad themselves are not hiding that, above all, they want to force the government to back down in the field of immigration policy. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] This is supported by the demonstration in Röszke, which was held at other times than on Saturday. At this protest, we had everything,.Refugees welcome! Both boards and banners requiring the removal of the border lock [[Dr. László Varga: Did you write this in advance at home, or how is it?]] one speaker apologized to immigrants for the actions of Hungarians, while others demanded the release of such an immigrant [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Free schools!]] who was convicted of attacking the Hungarian police with stone. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: We want free schools!]] Honourable Congressman, Looking at the political landscape in Hungary, it may not be an exaggeration to say that a year before the election, everyone who used to stand up against the Hungarian government was in line. They're against us. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Your right-wing teachers! The university teachers!]] Those who would take powers away from the Member States; those who would give room for unlimited immigration; those who believe that it is permissible for foreign-funded activists to try to shape Hungarian public life; and those who are obsessed with tax increases and who would reinstate the economy and rebuild family support systems. Dear House, National policy is therefore under fire, but this is only a sign that the opposition is using brutal means [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: You've lost confidence because you've hit on Hungarians!]] He's preparing for the election. But this does not change the point, Mrs Kunhalmi, as much as she shouts, this government will never allow others to make decisions for us. Of course, the left has a lot of experience in this area. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Meg Putin!]] But it's an experience we don't want to build on, and we won't. Thank you for listening. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Amen! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi, all this yelling is a nuance of beauty! [[Defiance. Zoltán Grimlock: Mr President, it would be closed in America! Agnes Kunhalmi: Sexism!]] We'll continue. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Who does Viktor Orbán sell with? Ms Bernadett Szél applied for a speech on the agenda from the LMP Group. Madam director, you have the floor, please.
u2017-04-18-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is not my place to criticise the sitting, but I hope that Minister will also receive from you what my fellow Member Kunhalmi has just received. Honourable Parliament... [[Moors and interrogations from the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] You can also nuance your beauty, my dear fellow Member. [[Agnes Kunhalmi laughs and applauds.]] Dear Parliament, In his Easter statements, the Prime Minister spoke of wars, all-fires, civil wars, international conspiracys, I don't know, war theatres, side-scenes, intergalactic conspiracys, I wouldn't have been surprised if one of you marched in here from top to bottom in military uniforms. I don't know if Prime Minister has watched too many Star Wars in the past, but that should stop, because the world doesn't look what he thinks. We are not yet in military uniforms here, but allow me to say that the battle heat produced from the government side does not disguise what is happening here in the background, what is the real purpose of Fidesz. Let us recall that the Prime Minister said not so long ago, just a few days ago, that the elections of 18 will have no less stakes than that Hungary will have a government of Hungarian or foreign interests. That's right. The only thing that needs to be clarified now is who is in the interest of Hungary and who is in the interest of the stranger. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's right! That's the point!]] Of course, you think it is Fidesz who is in the national interest, and we think it is Fidesz who is throwing away national interests right now after the betrayal of civil Hungary. Fidesz practically brought to life the leftover socialism, you are a living Lenin monument here in Hungary. Looking at the government, it seems that the last 27 years have been an attempt at movement from the party state, but you are now in Fidesz, where your Labour ancestors have stopped for a while. I could say here in April 2017 that Moscow is the new Moscow and Paks II. The new Friendship oil pipeline, but right now - serve here, exchange there - Fidesz is doing business with the Russians. If you vote for Fidesz, you vote for Putin. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári:]] And it doesn't matter what kind of enemy image Viktor Orbán tries to distract the electorate. Because you desperately need an enemy image for your fictional war. The big problem is that the fictional war also requires real victims, because that's how these fictional wars can be made real. Therefore, losses are expected to be more severe and more difficult until the elections in the next year. The Prime Minister himself does not hide that he considers the net hunting of one of the best universities in the country merely as collateral damage in the war he has fought, and the primitive stigma of civil society organisations operating in a completely transparent manner today is just a sword strike for you. Of course, in 18 we are voting on independence, that's right, the Prime Minister is right - but he is not saying that anyone voting for him is voting for Vladimir Putin. Because today it is not Brussels, Washington and Berlin that threaten the country's independence, as the Prime Minister says, but Moscow, and to prove it, it is enough to look at the last few days. While the Hungarian government asked the head of German and American diplomacy to join the Ministry of Foreign Affairs because they spoke in defense of the CEU, Péter Szijjártó himself initiated a telephone conversation with the Russian Foreign Minister on Friday and assured him that the Hungarian party's goal was to strengthen relations with Russia. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: A traitor!]] How do we know that? You didn't brag about it at home. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Which one?]] The government, I think, should enforce the interests of the whole country, even 15 million Hungarians, but even their own voters are being deceived and betrayed when they hand over their personal data to Russia: they voluntarily and songfully handed over the data of Hungarian people to a company known to the Russian secret services in connection with the national consultation. And when the "Maybe Other" of the National Security Committee asked the question that it was so that, cowardlyly, you ran away from the meeting, you ran away like the Easter Rabbit. The formula is quite clear: Fidesz is in Moscow's hands. And we do not have to go far here to see who is the role model of Viktor Orbán: Viktor Orbán was the first EU Prime Minister to congratulate Erdoğan, who is a full-fledged force. That's what happened, and we've lived to see it. [[13.20]] Many people have itchy palms now, I think so, but especially those voters who voted for you even in 14 years. For voters who believed that Viktor Orbán and not Vladimir Putin were voting. For voters who hoped to vote for renewable education, who were expecting a functioning health care system, and in honor of our sovereignty. Unfortunately, you've fooled these people one by one. I don't think they should be sending a message to the intellectuals about who they're selling on a groin and who they're not selling with, but see who your prime minister is selling on a groin with, and whose pocket the Fidesz is in. You sold yourself out, as they say, but you won't sell the country. We see that the greatest threat to Hungary's independence is Russian influence, and the real cost of this is achieved in Paks II. The independence of the country is not the Fidesz, but the May Other is the Politics, and it is already clear that Hungary must be protected from its own government at present.
u2017-04-18-6	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-18-7	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and He gave his speech the title "Whom does Viktor Orbán sell with? I would like to assure you that the Prime Minister, as well as the Government, always sells to those who have national interests and national independence in mind, and, if necessary, take up debates on this issue, for example in the area of Paks enlargement. Paks expansion is in the country's interest; above all, because this cheap electricity is the guarantee of additional cheap electricity, we have said this several times. When you talk about this, you will keep quiet about the fact that if there were no Paks expansion or there was no Paks nuclear power plant, the electricity in Hungary would be much more expensive. You are referring to the German aid scheme in order, but you are not telling me that in Germany the consumer pays much more for electricity. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: And how much is their wages?]] So if you demand the introduction of the German system, you must immediately give an answer as to how the resources needed to do so should be raised. Not to mention that Paks enlargement can create new jobs and stimulate economic growth. And not least in the 2014 campaign, too, the issue of Paks enlargement has been discussed many times, and you can remember it. The Paks enlargement is therefore in the country's well-conceived interest. But that is not the only question in energy policy. I would like to know, for example, your opinion on the proposal for an Energy Union in Brussels. You know very well that there is a proposal on the table to take the right to set prices out of the hands of the Member States, including Hungary, and to virtually eliminate the reduction in prices. The LMP has been silent on this subject for weeks, while bringing energy prices back to normal. I do not dare to assume that it is not important for LMP to know how much Hungarian families pay for electricity. As I mentioned, the government sells to those who have national interests in mind, not only in energy policy, but also in other issues such as greater transparency in the case of foreign-funded activists. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Shouldn't the COF be scanned?]] or just to keep tax policy in our own hands; or, for example, not to be able to introduce the resettlement quota that has been negotiated many times in this House. We know very well that the LMP sells on this issue with the leaders of Brussels. I would also like to say to you once again that your representative voted in the European Parliament a few days ago in favour of a resolution that continues to impose resettlement quotas, facilitate family reunifications and extend the category of refugees to a wider range of immigrants. If you are so concerned about national interests, you will immediately recall the LMP representative who voted in favour of this outrageous resolution. There are two possible cases: either they have no idea what LMP MEPs are doing in the European Parliament [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: We only have one MEP!]] Or they know very well what they're doing, but they're misdirecting Hungarian citizens. Either way, as the issue of migration is crucial for the future of Europe and Hungary in terms of representation of national interests, in these circumstances we are reluctant to accept lectures from the LMP; as long as resolutions supporting the quota and supporting immigration are voted in Brussels to deny it back home, no matter what. If I wanted to use the sentence structure you used, I would say that anyone who votes for LMP votes for unlimited immigration. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Wind Bernadett: You're lying!]]
u2017-04-18-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The great figure of European Christian democracy, Konrad Adenauer, died 50 years ago. Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group of the KDNP, spoke before the agenda. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor, please.
u2017-04-18-9	Mr President, Dear House, Now, after the Easter holidays, of course, we could talk about the message of the four-day holiday, the Easter joy and peace, but this anniversary makes me want to talk about the great man and his work who decided the future of Germany and Europe fifty years ago or more. We know that Konrad Adenauer first served as mayor, and then later after the Second World War, when Germany was in a really difficult situation, as the first chancellor of the alliance, when he was older, over 70 years old - until he was 87 years old - he worked to get Germany back on its feet. We know the situation of the economy and society at that time. Together with the Minister of Economic Affairs, Ludwig Erhardd, he created an economy that became the first in Europe, and they needed only a decade to do so. But not only has it boosted the economy, but it has created a welfare society that is truly built on the social market economy and has created Europe's richest country. But that is not the important thing for us, nor even the fact that by creating the CDU, he has created Germany's strongest party, but rather the European Union's predecessor, the European Union's iron and steel community, and then the European Economic Community, which founded the Union, has done something with its partners, Schuman, De Gaulle, De Gasperi, which still determines the present of Europe and Hungary. The question to us is what was in this man and his associates that enabled them to do so. I think the simplest answer is to quote him, and if you'll allow me to read this short quote: "Policy is the art by which we achieve the correct recognition based on moral basis. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So we are talking about two elements: the basis that was actually based on a solid set of values, and a set of standards that, for them, for these great European politicians, was not only a theory, but it was above the political interests of the day, and of course they were able to achieve it with skill and skill. That's how the definition he made made made sense. But perhaps it is worth a few words about the Union itself, about how they imagined it. Once again, if you will allow me, there is a quote here: Europe must be large, strong and influential if it is to enforce its interests in world politics. And what makes the Union big, strong and influential, what we want to see today, and what we want to see today, when its interest is unfortunately weakened, its economy is weakening, its security is not resolved, its competitiveness is becoming less and less so? I believe that the two that these great people have talked about: the values - I do not want to mention the details of this - are just five key words: personality, solidarity, subsidiarity, social justice and the common good - which, unfortunately, is in danger in Europe today, and what is very important today is the alliance of the strong Member States. [[13.30]] Because Europe can only be strong if its Member States are strong and free. That's what these great statesmen have done. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-18-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-18-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Fifty years ago, at the funeral of Konrad Adenauer, almost all the European Heads of State or Government were there, who were part of the free world at that time. After all, Europe has lost a huge personality, not only Germany, but also Europe; Germany, because it has led the country for 14 years. Churchill said that after Bismarck, the biggest German statesman was Konrad Adenauer, a Christian Democrat politician. But surely everyone who knows his activity feels that he was a huge figure in XX. European history of the century. In many respects, I believe that what you have said to this day is still relevant, and the quote that you mentioned, Mr President of the Group, but also that you saw the essence of Europe's foreign policy in national self-determination, and everywhere you talk about Europe, you spoke about a community of free European nations, as you said, about a common Europe of free nation states. I believe that national self-determination is what is important to us, and it is also important that we can have a strong Europe, as Mr Group Leader has quoted, if the Christian Democrat is based on foundations. Today, we are not exactly seeing the European Union's strengthening. If Konrad Adenauer had been worth the fact that a country, Britain, was leaving the European Union, he would obviously have been very sad. After all, the people who are now in control of Europe have taken it in such a direction that the nation states themselves, the countries, have been so alienated from the bureaucratic system of the European Union, alienated from the methods of exercising power in Brussels, that they say in a referendum that they want to leave the common European state in which Konrad Adenauer saw the peace of Europe and its wealth, prosperity and strength from peace. Therefore, it is important that no one from Brussels or elsewhere sees Europe as having nationalities in a large European superstate, because there are no nationalities here, there are nations, there are nations, there are states of the nations, and the European Union is also built from these states. It is important that European policy should always be taken into account by citizens' needs and citizens' expectations. I think it is a warning to all of us about the poor exercise of power by European politicians, European leaders, the withdrawal of the British and the weakening of the European Union, as it has lost one of its strongest economies. Obviously, the German economy has traditionally been Europe's strongest economy, but both the British economy and the British population have been of great importance within the European Union. Therefore, their exit is a huge weakening. Everyone can decide whether to rely on nations when thinking about the future of Europe or to see a kind of consumer community in Europe and listen to global or globalist advisors such as George Soros; who, not to be forgotten, a few months or a year ago, at the joint European Union committee meeting, at the consolidated meeting of the Committee on Budget, Civil Law, Foreign Affairs and Development, set out what he would propose as a direction for the European Union. At the Commission hearing with Frontex, he presented his own proposals. We remember what was then and the various proposals that led to it: The Union should issue special bonds, which, of course, it will buy and cover the costs of immigration. Or introduce immigration tax increases in the European Union and try to weaken the Europe of nations. In doing so, try to create a Europe based less on identities than on identitylessness, which is entirely opposed to what Konrad Adenauer thought or said 50-60-70 or 80 years ago and based on peace in Europe. When we think of the European Union as serving European citizens and respecting European nations, the European Member States, we rightly go on the path of thought left by Konrad Adenauer, a father of the European Union, a Christian Democrat 50 years ago. Allow me, Congressman, to conclude with the same quote: we must also look to the East if we are thinking of Europe. Europe must be large, strong and influential if it is to enforce its interests in world politics. This, I think, is an important pillar of a common Europe of free nation states. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-18-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Who really wants transparency? Mr Szávay, Member of the Jobbik Group, notary of the Parliament, applied for a speech on the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2017-04-18-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, For two weeks now, you have been exercising the Hungarian Parliament and public opinion on two topics based on otherwise legitimate and eligible proposals, but infinitely over-histrated, and in communication to an amazingly primitive level, rather than dealing with the affairs of the country. Let me quote to you an excellent summary of the whole CEU case: I understand. The CEU works. We make a law, we keep saying that we have to comply with a law that CEU cannot comply with because according to the U.S. Constitution, the central government has no jurisdiction over education. We give a subject to the brain-dead opposition, the Trump relationship, the European People's Party is attacking us, we are pissing off a significant part of our youth, giving ideas to Romanian nationalists, betraying those right-wing intellectuals who say otherwise. We'll send the president to a character killing, raise the weakened Soros, and then tell MTI in Brussels that the CEU will work even if it can't comply with the law. Is that clear? No? The commentator Bear asks the question on Mandiner. It's not clear, Mr. Secretary. It would be nice to make your position clear now. You guys have been having a double communication on this matter all along. On the one hand, they talk about legality, that the laws must be followed by everyone, and in fact, you only have the problem with the CEU and other institutions that they are above the law, but they do not want to close them. In the meantime, of course, they communicate to their believers, their members and their camp what a freedom struggle you are in here towards George Soros and their foreign interests and their governors. However, László Palkovics spoke last week in Brussels when he convinced the members of the European Commission about this matter:. The operation of the CEU will not be compromised, because he could continue his activities in other forms, but even if the new conditions were not met, and his business model would not necessarily be damaged. I repeat: even if the new conditions are not met. Is legality important now, Mr. Secretary, or is it not important to legitimize? If legality is important, tell us clearly whether the CEU can work or not. The problem is that it's legal, or the problem is it's illegal. If legality is important, then why is it wrong for the Constitutional Court to decide on this matter? If you want to shut down the CEU, stand up and tell your followers clearly and clearly that yes, dear Hungarians, and we are so tough that we will shut down the CEU. But they don't do that. We would like to see clearly on this issue now. Secondly, we have said many times, we do not have any discussion in principle with you about how we judge George Soros' activities. If you really think that György Soros' activity is harmful, otherwise, if you really think that György Soros wants to intervene in Hungary's internal affairs and to overthrow a government, then why are you not going to prosecute him, fellow Members? [[Dr. István Józsa: That's it!]] Why don't you file a case for infidelity, a conspiracy to overthrow constitutional order, or anything else? Because you, in fact, don't dare attack Soros, but your institutions, and for nothing else, just so that you can hysterize the public and your own voters, and you can appoint your enemies, and you can keep lying, which you will now, Secretary of State, that Jobbik has supported Soros University and Soros civil society organisations. Meanwhile, with your mouth, Zsolt Bayer publicly threatened everyone in Hungary who dared to think otherwise. Zsolt Bayer said that you will experience what it feels like to be persecuted and threatened. I expect you, Mr. Secretary of State, or any of the leaders of the Fidesz, to be separated from this sentence. Do you agree with that? Do you want to create a country here in the next period where people have to be afraid and persecuted because they have a different opinion than the government? ! You have not been separated from this sentence to this day. The other is the case of civil society organisations. They're talking about transparency. No! In fact, we are talking about transparency on this issue. I would like to make it very clear, although it is likely that Mr Secretary of State will rise again and lie again on this issue. We agree that we agree with the intention that if Hungary's policy is to be influenced from abroad through civil society organisations, it should have a clear and revealing background. We agree with that, and we support that. But politics can also be influenced from Hungary, and it can also be from the home country. In fact, we are the party to transparency on this issue, and we will present a number of amendments to this issue. The greatest danger to this law, however, is what Minister János Lázár himself acknowledged, so if he wants to argue with me, he will argue with Minister Lázár that this proposal could set a dangerous precedent for public action against Hungarian civil society organisations across the border, and this issue must be carefully examined in the parliamentary debate. [[13.40]] I ask the Secretary of State that, after we have passed Béla Kovács, Lajos Simicska, and what László Toroczkai wrote on his Facebook last week, please answer whether CEU can be above the law; whether they distance themselves from the revelation of Zsolt Bayer; why they are not launching proceedings against György Soros; and why they want to throw away the Hungarian civil sphere beyond the border with a law containing a good suggestion, but poorly drafted, to Romanian nationalism. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-18-14	Thank you very much. I ask you, on behalf of the government, who will answer what has been said - Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2017-04-18-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Listening to the raging right-wing communication of the past few weeks, you think that the leaders of Jobbik have decided that there are too many Jobbik foundations all over the country, and every day, every week, they say something that one or another foundation will disband itself. [[Dr. István Apáti: Wipe your mouth!]] Someone comes out to the public and tells us how much they can't identify with her, her core organization, or any of the basic organizations in the county with what Jobbik is doing today. And let's face it, someone needs a strong neck gymnast to find the current direction of Jobbik, because one minute Jobbik is talking about it, the next minute Jobbik is talking about it. He writes in his 2014 programme that we will put an end to the deceitful activities of international protection organisations, and then here within the walls of Parliament he is now opposed to the fact that the government does not want to act in such a radical way, but wants to create a clear, transparent relationship. After all, there are organisations operating in Hungary and the United States, in the United States for decades they have observed a very strict transparency rule; in Hungary they should fulfill a fraction of this, but they say that there are violations in Hungary, if we introduce a fraction of the provisions of the law which they otherwise observe in America with decades of legal practice in Hungary, and we say that those who have foreign activities over HUF 7.2 million have to report on this. If you look at the U.S. regulations, it's much, much stricter than that. And it was also surprising for many people inside Jobbik and outside Jobbik, when Jobbik is now proud to sign joint petitions, joint submissions with Ferenc Gyurcsány and the entire socialist faction. [[István Szávay: Find out if you're lying.]] With this, I believe that Jobbik's character was completely over, the character with which you were sent here by voters in 2010 and 2014. Just know, honourable Member, when your party leader, your Deputy Group leader, Gábor Vona, replaces Jobbik's voters nicely, this could easily lead to a replacement of Jobbik's faction around him after a while, as the Members who were there before 2010 and around him were there between 2010-14 and who remind him of radical Jobbik. And it is just a tragic episode in this story that Jobbik has just forgotten or denied the radical self - and it has become a flatter and duller party, knowingly and willingly - and when among young people, radicalism seems to have a little more east than before. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You have taken over his role.]] So now you're standing behind the Soros University and you're standing behind the organizations funded by George Soros. They did not say that they did not dare to claim that it is necessary in Hungary that if an organization is actually active only in a civil organisation, but is in fact engaged in political activities, or is engaged in economic activity, or is engaged in economic influence, it should indeed indicate this kind of foreign donation. You are opposed to this here, which neither your voters nor - let us say that you probably don't understand at one honest moment - and you don't know why Gábor Vona forced you into a position contrary to what you did in 2014 to get into Parliament. I think that your behavior and the behaviour of the former SZDSZ at the moment would not make much difference to these two legislative proposals, or discover those who follow the news. Honourable Congressman, In Hungary, the laws prevail, and everyone in Hungary must comply with the laws, however Hungarian or foreign, as rich as they are. It applies to everyone in the same way, and no one can live with misleading statements or misleading campaign, and no one can try to deceive the Hungarians and the public. Let me just give you three examples of Soros University. We remember, a few weeks ago, when a statement was issued on a Friday afternoon that the Soros University had just received a statement from the Board of Education that it met the conditions for its operation in Hungary, and it turned out that it had not just received it, and that this letter was not about what they had received. We have also heard that the US Government is sending a special CEU agent directly to Hungary. This was announced by the rector returning from Canada, who had been working as a liberal politician, perhaps as a party leader, but his time was up, and he is now leading the Soros University here in Hungary. Well, he announced that Hungary was being sent a special agent; as it turned out, before the beginning of the case, it was decided that someone was coming to Hungary, and not only in this case, but also in other matters. The fact that they first said that they were forced to leave Hungary, and then they declared that they would not leave Hungary in any way. Honourable Congressman, No one has to be afraid in Hungary, but everyone has to abide by the laws! Thank you very much. [[Ready Zoltán: Except for you! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The European Commission's attack on the reduction of costs. Mr Lajos Kósa, Head of the Group of the Fidesz, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2017-04-18-17	Mr. President. Dear House, [[Nándor Gúr: Watch out for the forint, Louis!]] What we have said about the European Commission's decisions has unfortunately become a sad reality. We have already drawn the attention of this House on several occasions to the fact that what the Commission is preparing, namely to raise electricity prices from national to EU level, is seriously detrimental to Hungary. That is why we launched a national consultation, which is why we said that we should stop these ambitions in Brussels, which is why we said that this effort is seriously detrimental to the Hungarian people and the Hungarian economy. [[Zoltán Pride: That's not true! István Tukacs: To the Fidesz!]] Not only will there be much more to pay for electricity, but also the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy can be weakened by the radical price increase, which is indeed a threat to GDP growth. Of course, the opposition said that he was a philandererer, but of course he is, we're just alarming, we're looking for enemies, and I don't know what we're painting, we're painting horrors on the wall. Dear Enemies, Look in the mirror: last week, the draft regulation and directive recast, which includes this endeavour, has arrived. If this passes, the price of electricity in Hungary will rise radically. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Don't shake me, Louis!]] And believe me, this will affect people and interest them much more than all the questions you're supposed to raise in order to draw attention to these real problems, because that is something the government is not willing to deal with. It is now clear to everyone that you have been gravely wrong, you have deceived people, because it is clear that, of course, you can support all the opposition in democratic terms, you can go up to Röszkök in order to let all migrants in without any kind of control. [[Zoltán Grimlock: When was the last time you sniffed me? Give me some of that stuff.]] - I note that this is hardly in Hungary's interest, and it certainly does not meet with the opinion and position of the multitude of Hungarian voters. But of course, you can be pro-migrants and say that every migrant here in Hungary, their soul on it, but it is certain that the price of electricity, the severe rise in the price of electricity, will dramatically affect the purses of each toll-payer. That's why we have to fight this with all our might. Of course, you can go to the House of Terror and protest. For the record, desecrating those people and the memory of the people who threw the House of Terror, who were victims of the Arrow Terror, or who were victims of communist terror. I wonder who they were gonna sell on a rug with. The right-hand congressman who defiled the monument of Jewish victims on the banks of the Danube? [[13.50]] He is sitting in the ranks of Jobbik; they have not apologized to him. They were just trying to get away with it. Or were the victims whose fingernails were torn off, their kidneys torn off, no matter what they did or what they thought they did, simply because they did not like the communist dictatorship and the terror of the privy army that the ÁVH had done? Of course, it is possible to support these people, because without hesitation, the opposition has sided with them, as if sold in a rut with those who have both abused the memory of the victims of communism and of the Sagittarius terror, and there is still a good smile on this. But one thing is certain, if there is something to be done together, it is that the memory of the victims of dictatorships cannot be desecrated, and that no one can say that the real task for Hungary is to abuse the memory of the victims, while the dramatic rise in the price of electricity is a side issue, no one is affected, only the government wants to distract attention from the problems. It's clear as day that it's an orbital lie. One thing is certain: Fidesz will do everything in its power [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] so that the price of Hungarian electricity cannot be dramatically increased on the European stage. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Aradszki, State Secretary, will respond to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-18-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I think you are certain in the part of my answer that the government is also doing everything in its power to ensure that the price of energy in Hungary does not increase significantly and, above all, that the price of electricity will not be reduced in a regulated way. In contrast, the European Union, namely Brussels, intends to change several provisions and directives governing the supply of electricity in its package of Clean Energy for All Europeans, which was submitted on 30 November 2016, by seriously violating the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. In this regard, the Committee on European Affairs held a meeting today and decided that we should take action against this. We also need to take action because the Brussels proposal is taking steps not only to regulate prices, but also to harm the interests of Hungary and other European countries, but also to create security of supply problems the consequences of which will be inaccessible. With the establishment of regional operational centres, it provides an opportunity to intervene at Brussels level, which means that the Hungarian State and other States will not have the power to act effectively, quickly, ensuring the care of people and citizens in crisis situations, in dealing with market disruptions, but through a specific mechanism, the country in a supply situation will obtain the necessary energy source from elsewhere, much further and further away, which will lead to a legally rising energy price. We don't want that. We would also like the Hungarian authorities, the Hungarian government, to remain the authority in this regard, so that the crisis can be dealt with. However, it should also be said that Brussels is also acting in a false manner on the price issue when it says that the reason why the system of regulated prices should be established in countries where it still exists is because this is an obstacle to competition on the market. This is a false position because between 2010 and 15, the prices of gas and electricity have increased everywhere in the EU countries where price regulation was operated on a competitive market basis. Hungary is an exception in this respect, because here, not only has electricity prices increased by more than 27 percent, gas prices have decreased by more than 36 percent in Hungary. In the EU, as I mentioned, the average increase in 2010-15 was 20-25 percent. I should also add that uniformised free market regulation at European level does not take into account the different characteristics and values of the Member States, but does not take into account the fact that, for example, the profitability of the Eastern European countries and the income of their residents are 70% of those of the European Union and their energy cost is much higher than that of other more developed countries in the European Union. These historical qualities will be good for us to take into account so that we can provide energy at an affordable price for everyone. If we do not do this and let us take the directions of the European nomenclature, namely Brussels, and allow the regulated price to be abolished in the coming years, as you have said, Mr President, the price of electricity will increase radically, and the success that Hungary has achieved since 2012 is that energy poverty has decreased, the number of households shut down has decreased, the number of consumer debt has decreased, the number of late consumers has decreased, the number of consumers would disappear from one moment to the next, and if this were to disappear, this would cause a real political, economic and social crisis in Hungary, and beyond what you have said would, of course, also have a negative impact on the economy, for example, the growth of real earnings in Hungary would also stop. We're gonna have to do something about this. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and thank you very much for the committee's position to ask for authorisation to act, and the Hungarian Government will also do everything in its power to stop Brussels' intentions in this direction. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is 13:57 a.m., and we have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would now like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2017-04-18-21	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Zoltán Készép is an independent Member. On Wednesday, the following representatives came forward before the agenda: István Ikotity, LMP; Gergely Bárándy, MSZP; Dániel Z. Karpát, Jobbik; András Aradszki, KDNP; Richárd Hörcsik, Fidesz Hörcsik. On Wednesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: István Ikotity, LMP; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik. No one came forward on Thursday's day after the agenda.
u2017-04-18-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, It is now time to set the agenda for our meeting starting today. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed and properly placed in the voting machines. Dear Parliament, My fellow Members and fellow members of the Government, if you could finish your special discussion! Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal for a derogation from house rules. By way of derogation from the House Rule, the Speaker of Parliament initiates the Parliament to adopt a draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal market in electricity and a draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules for the internal market in electricity on the conditions for the adoption of a reasoned opinion. Report No 7 and H/15097 on the adoption of this Decision. In the course of the negotiation and decision-making of Decision No 34 of the House Rules, the House Rules of Decision No 34 shall depart from the House Rules. Paragraph 1 does not apply, and the general debate between the report and the proposal for a resolution is held on Wednesday's meeting on the T/14967 on transparency of organisations supported from abroad. Following a general debate on bill No 1. [[14.00]] Proposal for a derogation from house rules B/15096/1. and H/15097/1. You can find out about it from the website. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, a vote of four fifths of the Members present is required. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the departure from the house rule by 140 votes in favour, 18 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a motion to amend the agenda. The MSZP and the LMP Group are proposing that T/14967 on transparency for organisations supported from abroad The general discussion of the legislative proposal No 1 shall not take place at this meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, Anyone who agrees with that, vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of Parliament has not accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendment adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making of proposals. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether he asks the designated Judicial Committee to report on the activities of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information in 2016 B/13846. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 122 votes in favour, 40 votes in favour and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament whether he invites the designated Committee of Culture to report to the President of the Hungarian Academy of Arts B/14936 for the National Assembly of Hungary 2014-2015. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 121 votes in favour, 40 votes in favour and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, A decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. Now it's 2:3 p.m., we're moving on to interpellation and immediate questioning. Member Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, notary of the National Assembly, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy. It's an address. Congressman Nándor Gúr has the floor, please.
u2017-04-18-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is not one of the largest countries in the European Union, but the territorial differences within the country are the largest. No matter what we watch, no matter whether we watch salaries or employment, the differences are huge. If you look at the data of KSH for 2016, you can see that the average net earnings in Budapest are HUF 226 thousand. That's not the problem, that's not much. The problem is that if we parallel this with the net income average and payment average of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, it is 118 thousand forints that we are faced with. In Budapest the net average is 226 thousand, in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county 118 thousand forints. Once again, the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County is not the many in Budapest, but the terrifyingly few. But if we look at North-East Hungary, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county or even the county of Nógrád, or we go south to Békés, we see that in these counties, the salaries in Budapest are less than 60 percent of the net average. A year ago, I mean, a year before the 16th, the situation was a little better in 15th; the scissors continued to open. In the last seven years, the scissors have continued to open, so it's not okay. You leave the people who suffer the most in a row, the working people in the mess. But the same is the case with regard to employment policy. 64 percent in Budapest, 54 percent in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, but I could also say other counties, such as the county of Nógrád, where the employment rate is 51-52 percent, of course spiced with the public works of Nógrád and Borsod. What I'm trying to say is that they don't give a helping hand where they're supposed to, and they don't pay the same wage for the same job. And I would say that this is an extreme situation, and that is that the same company in disadvantaged areas does not pay the same money for the same work. How's that? How do you want to move towards justice? What are you going to do about it? And why didn't they do it for seven years? Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-04-18-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds to the interpellation question on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-18-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, The questions contained in the Member's interpellation are based on the misinterpretation of the data of the HCSO. First of all, they make it seem as if the government merely intended to eliminate the wage gap between the counties. Anyone who thinks this way is unaware that wages on the world market are essentially dependent on supply and demand conditions. In terms of wages, the government is therefore authorised to set minimum wage and minimum wage for skilled workers. However, with this right - I have already said this to a Member - the government did not want to live, not unilaterally, but rely heavily on the opinion of the social partners when seeking an agreement in this area. The minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage are national uniform and the outstanding increase in 2017-2018 will help to reduce wage differences. The government has no indirect effect on the wages paid in the competitive sector, which also seeks to reach an agreement with employees' and employers' representatives. Of course, it must also be said that the situation in the public sector is quite different, because in this case wages are determined by basically national pay systems, without any territorial distinction. Furthermore, Mr President, the proposals made by the Member seem to constitute an automatic violation of the principle of equal pay for equal work by the fact that there are territorial wage differences. However, this is not the case. The requirement of equal treatment means that in a specific workplace, it is impossible to distinguish between those who do the same work and - pay attention! - the same performance as regards wages. Compared to this, average wage data at county level are generated by the averaging wages of a highly heterogeneous workforce, so they are completely inadequate for comparison in terms of equal treatment, it can also be said that they are unprofessional. In addition, labour demand and supply are also different, which can cause wage differences in market conditions. In response to Mr President's comments on statistical data for 2016, I would like to point out that the structure of the economy varies considerably from one area to another and that average wages are significantly influenced by the different number of people employed per county. I would like to point out that in the counties that you have referred to as examples, unemployment has been significant in your time, employment has been significantly lower. Significant steps have now been taken, for example, by the fact that very, very many people in public employment have been able to earn income from work temporarily, shorter or longer. [[14.10]] Thus, there is also a significant difference per area because the number of people employed is also different for the county or region. However, open labour market wages have increased more than the national average in disadvantaged counties, including Szabolcs. You're not telling the truth, Congressman, when you're trying to refer to some kind of data. The territorial differences between the northeast and western and central parts of Hungary have typically been the result of decades of processes. You have not improved this either, on the contrary, with our period of government, when wages have been significantly caught up and the number of employees has also increased. In this context, it is a positive process that, after 2010, employment rates have increased significantly both nationally and in the eastern and north-east counties. Let me give you an example: the number of employees in Szabolcs-Szatmár county increased most between 2010 and 2016 [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] rebutting what you said again. Nationally, it increased by 17 percent in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County by 28 percent. This proves that you are trying to mislead those who are listening to you. Thank you, and I'm sorry, Mr. President, for the delay. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-18-26	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Nándor Gúr whether he will accept the answer of the State Secretary who has just heard.
u2017-04-18-27	The answer is thin, very thin, it can't be accepted. You know, in 2010-11, you were supposed to make a moderate raise, something you didn't do, and even took away. Are you talking about minimum wage? For five years, minimum wage earners have received less money. [[Rumors and interrogations from the pro-government ranks:]] Just like before. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] All we have to do is count, fellow Members, and they will realize that it is not the stupid thing to memorize and accept. 600,000 people left this country for that reason. You drove these people away. Bring who home? Homecoming program? They bring 105 people home, then they open the gates, the Ukrainians come and others come? Well, you're not in the interests of the Hungarian people. [[There's a grumble in the pro-government ranks.]] You serve the interests of other countries, foreign powers [[An uproar from the Fidesz ranks.]] Not the interests of the Hungarian people. It's a shame what you're doing. Shame! Sooner or later, the consistency will come down. You are unfit to govern, and that will be confirmed. [[Rumors from the pro-government ranks.]] Thank you very much.
u2017-04-18-28	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, the congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 110 votes in favour, 31 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Szávay, a representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister by covering for their own agents by blocking the disclosure of agent lists and the banning of former informants from public life? It's an address. By responding to the interpellation, the Prime Minister appointed Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, who is competent and competent according to the subject. Minister Károly Kontra asked Secretary of State to respond to the interpellation. Congressman, you have the floor. Mr. Messenger, please.
u2017-04-18-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Over the last seven years, Jobbik has already submitted a number of legislative proposals aimed at dealing with the party state past, the red past, and to clarify certain details of the party state past. We recently had such a bill with my colleague Ádám Mirkóczki and György Szilágyi at the meeting of the Justice Committee a week or two ago. Then you have again voted against our suggestion that the agents' lists should be made public. Róbert Répássy, on the part of the governing parties, defended this position, which I believe to be unacceptable as a civil conservative, by the way, by not reading our bill. Otherwise, it has brought up issues or raised issues such as the case of communist luxury pensions, which were not an important issue, but in particular in this proposal. So you have taken this issue so seriously that you have not even read the proposal that you voted against. Mr László Teleki, on behalf of the MSZP, said that it was too much for them, and therefore they abstained. It has become clear and clear that it is we who are the only Jobbikians who would like to end up with the red past, who would like to make it perfectly clear and clearly as to who were agents, what crimes have been committed, who have been involved in the destruction of families, lives, careers, fates, how they organised the operation of communist terror in Hungary. We, right-handers, despite the fact that this proposal has now been voted down, will be implemented, we will set up the Institute of National Memory for a well-functioning Polish sample for a decade and a half after 2018. We'll be on the side of the whole public. The task of this body will be to make the entire record of the state security past available to the public, and otherwise, it will also have investigative and incriminating powers to bring down the communist agent's past for good. Then we will create a legal background for what is also a 27-year-old debt to the current Hungarian government so that we can exclude agents from public life. Of course, I believe you, I believe the ruling parties, that it would be a serious loss of credit for the Communist successor party if it turned out that you, too, were full of support officers, informants and agents to the highest level. We do not see any other reason why this proposal was voted out. Why didn't you support the closure of our nation's red past of so much suffering, Mr. Secretary of State, the full publicity of state security documents and the disclosure and expulsion of former agents from public life by the government? My other question, Mr. Secretary: who do you think you are here in charge of the country's publicity? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] to report with a calm heart that no former agents are currently active in the Hungarian government? Who dares to report this? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-18-30	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-18-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to reject the accusations made in the last sentences of your interpellation. We consider these to be completely unfounded and we reject them, honourable Member. The government won't cover for anyone. On the contrary, a report by the Joint Expert Group of the National Remembrance Committee and the Historical Archives of the State Security Services on the investigation of the data on magnetic tape of state security bodies prior to 1990 has been prepared. The document is public and can be read in full on the Committee's website. The working group examined the structure, completeness and historical value of the data content recorded on the magnetic tape managed by the Constitutional Protection Office. Following the completion of the analysis, the Committee initiated the transfer of magnetic tapes from the Constitutional Protection Office to the archives after the amendment of the relevant legislation. At its meeting on 8 March 2017, the Government discussed the report of the National Remembrance Committee. He made a decision on this and fulfilled all the requests contained therein, and also handed the magnetic tapes to the archives. The archives are open, accessible by anyone, and the Member can be fully informed of the matter. Moreover, the Expert Group is currently carrying out a continuous review of the classified information contained in the registers, thereby creating as complete as possible access rights for citizens and the possibility of historical research. The Joint Working Group, formed from the members of the Committee and from the staff of the Archives, operates according to the working schedule agreed with the Ministry of Interior, and started processing magnetic tapes as early as September 2015. On the basis of the government decision on this matter, classified information generated by the Ministry of Interior prior to the change of regime shall be transmitted to the archives by 30 June 2017. The file to be transmitted shall be G, H and K registers. G shall include operational records, H shall include network records and K shall include counter-intelligence repository. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The transmission of media in the management of the Constitutional Protection Office shall take place by 1 July 2017. In order to carry out the increased tasks of the Archives, the necessary conditions should be established by 30 June and a review of the classification of data content stored on secret service media by 30 June 2018. I ask the honourable Member to accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-04-18-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr. István Szávay, the notary of the Parliament, whether he will accept the answer of the State Secretary. [[14.20]]
u2017-04-18-33	I don't accept it, Mr. President. That answer cannot be accepted, Mr Secretary. Let's start with the fact that the National Remembrance Committee, a fidesz dungeon, has no real powers, all its members have been elected only from the candidates of the governing parties. We do not need to analyse these materials here, Mr. Secretary. We need to give them full publicity, and then we need to draw the appropriate consistency from this and we need to disclose all the data. I read the snitch reports about my family and my grandfather back in the day, and there were very happy stories about how it went, say, a opposition organization and how they searched the old man, but he still had two anti-Rakosi flyers in his pocket, and how bad it could have been. These stories are written down, but who was involved, who reported who, by the way, were removed from these materials, there is no way to know. To this day, you still protect former agents, your anti-communism is as credible as your fight against Soros. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-18-34	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 27 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, has submitted an interview to the Minister of National Economy: It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-04-18-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Minister Varga announced two weeks ago that the single-key personal income tax will no longer be reduced. There was no reason to say, though we suspect that you have also realised that such a measure would be expensive and unnecessary, since once again, with a huge budget loss, the wealthy would bring home most of the cuts, and only a fraction of those who earn less. There is a need for a differentiated reduction. It would be necessary for the minimum wage to be exempt and for the average wage to increase significantly. Last week's parliamentary debate on wages was also said by the government, not to tell by heart how large wages should be. Well, we are now saying from the inside: be bigger, and this can be achieved in one step by means of tax policy. The net value of the minimum wage can be increased by 30 percent, the net value of the average wage can be increased by 20 percent for everyone, working in the public sector or in the private sector. Only earners over a million forints a month would contribute more to public spending, but this is inevitable. Why is that necessary? Not only in Hungary, but also in the world, wealth and income differences have grown enormous. The wealth of the eight richest men is as great as the wealth of the poorest half of the world, 3.6 billion people. And these differences are growing within the framework of the global world economy. The growth of social differences, the fragmentation of a society to few rich and many poor not only seems morally bad, but also proven to be harmful to the economy and social and political life. A stable and developing society, and even democracy, can only be based on a strong middle class, which is precisely the weakening and disappearance of processes. Income and wealth differences should therefore be kept in check. According to many economists, progressive income tax is the most effective tool of this, which constantly achieves redistribution, constantly alleviates differences, maintaining social and national cohesion. Today, the opposite is happening in Hungary: perverse redistribution, which shifts income from the poor to the rich. This was also shown by the abolition of the tax credit and the reduction of profits tax to multinationals. It's time for a turnaround. It should also be in the interest of the working people in tax policy rather than for the rich and the multinationals. Mr. Secretary. Would Fidesz be willing to increase net wages by a progressive cut in hair and prevent the huge growth of social differences? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-04-18-36	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds to the interpellation made by the Member. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-18-37	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It is not enough that LMP has not voted to reduce personal income tax in recent years here in Parliament, it has not voted for a significant increase in family tax incentives, if I hear right, it now announces in Parliament that it wants to increase personal income tax rates, increase the burden on families, increase the rate of personal income tax. Hopefully, in his rejoinder, the congresswoman will also announce the percentage of personal income tax that will be the key if LMP can decide or decide on this in the next Parliament. He will also add that the tax allowance for the family will be abolished, retained, or reduced. Now, with this policy, the Fidesz-KDNP majority cannot agree. It can agree that the level of personal income tax should be reduced, as in other neighbouring countries, Estonia, Romania, the Czech Republic and other countries have one-key personal income tax. It is true that there is no social policy measure in the other countries, such as the family tax reduction in Hungary, it is not significantly extended, it is not so significant, since this year two children will have 30 thousand HUF/month and it will continue to grow in the following year. The government, contrary to your claim, has not given up on the fact that it will further reduce the level of personal income tax. It is clear that the performance of the economy will determine this. The following year, with confidence in economic growth, economic performance growth, we will be able to achieve further reductions and the basic objective of operating a single-key personal income tax in Hungary, we will be able to achieve it. I would add that the tax policy of the last few years has produced very serious results for the country, because however incredible, but while the progressive taxation you quoted back, the upper key of which was 40 percent in the previous era, during the period of the socialists, and after that it became one-key, 16 percent, significantly reduced personal income tax revenue, with nearly HUF 400 billion. I would like to tell you that more than 700,000 people have more jobs, so they are also involved in income and taxes, so there is much more personal income tax revenue today. This should, of course, include the discounts granted during this period. More personal income tax revenue than was otherwise at the time of progressive tax rates. I think that this is confirmed by the increase in incomes, because more people pay and personal income tax on higher incomes, and thus increase the revenue of the state. Both the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, such as the net content of the average wage, have increased significantly in the last year. If I take into account the six-year wage agreement concluded in November last year, I can say that the net content of the minimum wage will increase by about 50 percent and the guaranteed minimum wage by 70 percent. I think that the government is on the right track, both in terms of income, tax policy and social policy - and I am thinking of family tax relief. There's no need for the government to stray from this path. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congresswoman if she will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2017-04-18-39	No, I don't accept the answer. Secretary of State, you don't even know the NAV data. According to NAV data, wage differences and income differences are very significant in Hungary. According to the NAV data we requested, over HUF 10 million a year, 1.6 percent of taxpayers earn, 73,616 people in total. The minimum wage or the income below it is taxed at 33 per cent, i.e. one and a half million people; 73 per cent of taxpayers after average wage or income below it. Five percent of taxpayers, 21 percent, have incomes above the average wage. So that's what makes the difference. There is only one possible means of bringing differences together, namely progressive personal income taxation. [[14.30]] If it were to be the same burden on the budget, if you would reduce the deficit to 9 percent, as the LMP's multi-key personal income tax system, your system would have a net increase of HUF 100,000 in the minimum wage, with our system to HUF 110,000. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] The average wage in your system would be 217 thousand forints, and in our tax system, it would be 229 thousand forints. Compare the differences, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-04-18-40	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 113 votes in favour, 29 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, MEPs Szilárd Németh and Attila Tilki, representatives of Fidesz, have submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade. It's an address. Congressman Attila Tilki has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-18-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, At the election held in Macedonia last December, the ruling Democratic Party 51, the Communist successor party, the Social Democratic Union, gained 49 seats in the 120-member parliament - no government has been formed since then. It is obvious that the internal political stalemate must be resolved by the citizens of Macedonia within the framework of the Macedonian constitutional institutional system. However, not everyone thinks so. According to documents acquired by the U.S. anti-corruption organization Judicial Watch, no less than 61 so-called NGOs, which were grunted and funded by the Soros György Open Society Foundation, have spent at least $5 million in recent years to destabilize the conservative government. Not only were violent protests organized, but one of them financed the translation of the book The Rules of the radicals, for example, as a practical handbook of reversion, whose author explained in an interview that not only lies, deception and violence are allowed to achieve political goals, but also manslaughter. During the riots, several government buildings were damaged by the perpetrators, and the cameras were posing in a T-shirt marked "Soros Army" and one of the Soros empire's organizations was responsible for releasing a pamphlet every year during the reign of the conservative government, in which they lamented the deteriorating situation of freedom of the press. Macedonia's people have had enough of this, and in January this year, we've formed the,, let's stop Soros! It's a movement. They found out, among other things, that a member of the Open Society Foundation and his former husband, who worked as a secret service officer, were behind the wiretap of right-wing politicians. Since then, tens of thousands have joined the movement. Dear Secretary of State, The question arises as to why the Macedonian government is standing in Soros' way. The answer is simple: this is not about any Open Society, it is about money alone. At the height of the migration crisis, 10-12 thousand migrants crossed the Greek-Macedonian border every day, leaving a huge devastation, the government responded by building a border fence. It is well known that the Soros-related organizations are breaking up the migrant business, one Hungarian organization demanding nearly HUF 15 million from the Hungarian state after two migrants. And the establishment of another conservative government would not be good for business: if Soros' allies win, it will result in the influx of uncontrollable Muslim immigrants. "In Washington Post," says the article on this subject. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary László Szabó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-18-43	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In Macedonia, it is generally believed that several NGOs associated with George Soros' name are partly behind the internal political situation that has led to the destabilisation of the country since May 2015. Knowing the organizers and speakers of the street demonstrations that led to the internal political crisis, it seems quite clear that this view is well founded, especially with regard to the Macedonian member of the international network of Open Society Foundations, the Foundation Open Society Macedonia. The situation is complicated by the fact that there are also many persons on the most recent electoral list of the Social Democratic Union of the opposition in Macedonia who are linked to the Open Society Foundation. This is also true of Katica Janeva, who has recently been appointed head of the so-called Special Prosecutor's Office, whose activities have now been criticised by Western diplomats, because rather than dealing with the detection and eradication of corruption, his activities are increasingly focused on the change of government. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that he spent a disproportionately large part of the European budget of the Open Society Foundations in Macedonia in 2015 and 2016, in parallel with the fact that the left-wing opposition was able to carry out an unprecedented expensive campaign in Macedonia during the early parliamentary elections in December 2016. A statement by Minister of Foreign Affairs Nikola Poposzki Macedonian revealed that the Open Society spent around EUR 5 million last year to finance the activities of certain Macedonian NGOs, which, in Macedonian circumstances, is a disproportionately significant amount even compared to the state budget. The internal political situation in Macedonia is worrying for Hungarian diplomacy, with virtually eight months without a functioning government in Macedonia. This is happening at a time when the country is one of the most important stages of the Balkan route in terms of migration, when the security situation is deteriorating throughout the Balkans, and when attempts at destabilisation in Macedonia itself threaten ethnic conflict, and we all know that a possible Slavic-Alban conflict in Macedonia is unlikely to stop at the borders of Macedonia. In this situation, Hungarian diplomacy consistently supported the legally elected government of the country and opposed all external interventions and does not contribute to the adoption of any document in international forums that tries to pressure Macedonia's domestic political life from the outside. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Attila Tilki if the Members will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2017-04-18-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I am the president of the Macedonian branch of the IPU, and in 2015, through the Central European Initiative, I was able to see for myself how much the Macedonians liked us and how important the help we provided when the country was in a migration crisis: we built a fence, sent police and soldiers to Macedonia. I think it doesn't matter to the country what conditions prevail in Macedonia, and I wondered if - here in the interpellation I said that the Macedonians were wearing a T-shirt with the sign of the Soros army - which of the parties in the current opposition horseshoe could wear this shirt or which parties would wear it. Maybe all of them? [[Crying out of opposition benches, including Fidesz! Fidesz! Dr. Csaba Gyüre: You were a Soros! The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you, I accept your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-46	Thank you very much. The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's answer. Dear Parliament, Congressman Szilágyi, calm down, let's move on. Member László Teleki, representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. When will the Hungarian vocational training system be able to provide workers with marketable knowledge to the labour market? It's an address. Congressman László Teleki has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-18-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2017-04-18-48	Wait, Congressman. We'll wait until it's quiet. Let's start again from here.
u2017-04-18-49	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, At all levels of the school system, from basic to vocational training, it is necessary to equip future workers with the ability to learn, because this is in particular the way to acquire the skills required for the particular occupation. [[14.40]] Children should have the basic competences to be able to absorb new knowledge, to cooperate and then to work. However, this basic requirement cannot be met by the current school system and vocational training system. If we look at the current vocational training, we can see that the institutional system is over-central, that the professional content has not been compiled properly, and that the vocational training structure is not the ideal one. Overall, these problems result in the current unsustainable situation in that sector. The current shortage of professionals cannot be adequately remedied if young people are not adequately trained and skilled in the world of work. I do not think that while renovating an apartment, the owners are happy to have a job done again several times, twice or three times because the particular craftsman performed the task assigned to them in a brazen manner. Unfortunately, today, the future encoded in government decisions presents this to us. With inadequate expertise, the government is responsible for those leaving the labour market, as it maintains a training structure and institutional system that is not able to teach the necessary knowledge in the way it is expected. Due to the influence of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, vocational education and training focuses too much on the current needs. The government also often refers to German dual training, but there is a stronger initial education, much more emphasis on competence-based training than we do. The modern world is based on cooperation, teamwork. If you don't understand that, you'll be left behind in the race. The over-centralised economy, the designation of the winners of the competition, weakens the country's competitiveness, which the comparative data indicate year after year. It is also very detrimental that young people with marketable skills, language skills and not so many young people leave the country. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State when we can see real results in vocational training. When will the VET structure and the centralised institutional system start to take substantial steps to actually improve the chances of the home VET system? Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2017-04-18-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the interpellation question raised will be Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-18-51	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to ask you not to underestimate the work of teachers and instructors who still work in vocational training and release students from the world of work with marketable knowledge. In addition to this, the government has, of course, been paying particular attention to vocational training in parallel with economic recovery measures for many years, thus performing significant and visible, effective activities and carrying out the development of the vocational training system. Part of this process is the reform of vocational training and technical training, in line with the needs of the labour market, as well as the rethinking of professional qualifications and the establishment of a system of education focusing on the skills gap, adding that there are significant grants to assist in the training of deficiency professions. In the framework of new measures, the government has significantly expanded access to vocational training from 2015 onwards, introducing the free acquisition and acquisition of second vocational training, broadening adult education and, in cooperation with companies, extending dual training. The results of the measures outlined are already visible today, and the number of adult learners has increased several times, who can better hold their place in the labour market with their new professional skills and second qualifications, and the number of students studying deficiency training continues to increase. The new vocational education and training structure introduced from September 2016 also provides the opportunity to acquire a degree and develop skills and competences adapted to the expectations of the modern age. In response to the challenges of a rapidly changing, constantly changing economic environment, the government also wants to focus more on supporting flexible adaptation training, re-training and further training in the next period. A significant source will be available for both large companies and small and medium-sized enterprises. The main aim of these trainings is to increase quality, productivity and thus competitiveness by creating the conditions for higher added value work. Honourable Congressman, Therefore, a number of effective measures have been introduced over the past few years in order to improve the quality of vocational training. As I have already mentioned, some of these have a clear positive impact in the short term, but their full effectiveness will be felt in the longer term due to the multi-annual lead-through period of school-based training. If you had started this in time, you would have had the result, but you slept through the years and did nothing to renew vocational training. This work is left to us, so we know and see that the development of a training system cannot be seen as completed because it is the only way to ensure real results based on professionals with a high level of expertise and key competences. These results will continue to come in the coming years. By making the second vocational training available free of charge, we have increased the possibility of obtaining the first vocational training free of charge to 25 years, as I have already said, significant renewals and innovations have been introduced in adult education and adult education, and the fact that employment has increased significantly over the past period is also due to the operation of vocational training, adult education and adult education. We would like to continue this with the help of vocational training in order to achieve full employment in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr László Teleki if he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2017-04-18-53	Thank you very much. Mr President, I can't accept the answer. There are a lot of things I don't agree with about the Secretary of State. Why does vocational training work? I think the only reason it works is because there are dedicated instructors and educators on the field. If they weren't dedicated, the vocational training would have collapsed, so we can say it calmly. Just as adult training has collapsed, and you never talk about leaving adult vocational training on the side of the road, and for those of you who are otherwise in public employment, there's nothing but being trapped in the trap you're in. You do not try to lead them out through vocational training, so you cannot accept the answer because you mislead young people and mislead adults, who would otherwise be entitled to the right to come out of public employment. So the only reason this system works is because it's run by teachers and teachers. At government level, you have made this vocational training impossible. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-18-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply with 109 votes in favour, 34 votes in favour and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development:. Why did the Government withdraw from our proposal to abolish the clock conversion, which is the same as the opinion of 80 percent of Hungarian society? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Kepli has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-04-18-55	Thank you very much. Mr. President. About six months before Parliament is the proposal for a resolution submitted by Jobbik, and István Szávay and my fellow Member, which aims to abolish the two-year shift, and this initiative, as it has been revealed many times in the six months since then, coincides with the opinion of about four-fifths of Hungarian society. Several polls and surveys have been carried out on this issue since then, which have shown this. This shift of two hours per year is almost equivalent to a soft biological weapon, as it weighs extremely on the biorhythm of the organism, and its merits have already been shown to be close to zero. So Jobbik submitted the proposal more than six months ago and has been on the parking lot ever since. The general debate was held during the autumn session, and there it seemed that the government, although hesitant, supported this idea. Since then, however, he has been increasingly trying to back out, and even to put the detailed debate on the Economic Committee no longer on the agenda, and it is therefore impossible to put an end to this issue. According to scientific research, not only the number of cardiovascular diseases is increasing during this period, when this period of clock conversion is in spring and autumn, but also the number of traffic accidents and accidents at work is increasing and more frequent in the days following clock setting. Most people - obviously we ourselves, who are sitting here - are also suffering from sleep disorder at this time of year, until the organization is switched twice a year. [[14.50]] I know, you could say, Mr Secretary of State or the Government, that this may not be the most pressing issue in Hungary, but if there is a question in which 80 percent of Hungarian society agrees, I think that the Hungarian government has a dog's duty to take a firm position on whether it supports or opposes the question. We have not yet heard a strong opinion from the government. You often refer to Brussels on this issue too, but we do not understand why you refer to Brussels when it comes to countering it, because you are constantly fighting freedom against Brussels. If the Hungarian people's will is to abolish the clock conversion, then let it be done if necessary, at home, if necessary, going to Brussels. You have been entrusted by voters to represent the will of the vast majority. If you refuse to do so, then, of course, there is nothing wrong with this, then Jobbik will do this together with many other measures in 2018, going to government, because we are on the side of the people. I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, for a definite answer to the proposal for a resolution, which lies before the House, which István Szávay and I have submitted together, whether the government supports or opposes. Would I like to abolish the clock change, would I like to keep it on the agenda in any way, to take any measures to this end, or to leave it off, to continue to deal with this issue and to reject the will of the vast majority of Hungarian society? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-18-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The answer to the question raised will be from Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-18-57	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In answer to your question, the government does not support you. The government does not refer to Brussels, but to rationality and fundamental economic interests, because changing hours is essentially an economic policy issue. From an energy point of view, the clock conversion in Hungary saves about 100 to 120 thousand megawatts of electricity, which corresponds to the annual needs of a medium Hungarian city, about 30 to 40 thousand households. After the spring clock was set, there was also a decrease in electricity consumption on the day of the switch compared to the previous day's values. The consumption data show that we achieve significant energy savings by setting the clock, especially the evening peak load has decreased even on Sundays. Compared to the pre- and post-transition period, according to Mavir measurements, about 1.5-3 percent of electricity can be saved one day. The method currently used is based - and this is not based on existing social polling measurements, but on figures - to reduce the difference between the daily time band of natural light, which is between 7.30 a.m. and 3 p.m. in winter and 4:45 p.m. in summer and 8:45 p.m. in the evening - and the average wake-up time between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. The more these two time bands coincide, the less artificial energy we use. Winter-summer time calculation not only results in energy savings, but also in rationality. Its abolition would also have a significant impact on Community transport. Such a step would affect the system of the domestic timetable and the connections of foreign scheduled flights passing through our country, which is also not set at 80 per cent, but required by a timetable. International trains would not be in the same place during the year. The organisation of accessions would create a number of difficulties, especially towards Austria and Slovakia. Hungary's transition to a different time zone would significantly impede the functioning of the economy and tourism cooperation in terms of trade, rail, airways, road transport and financial services. Hungary's largest trading partners are Germany, the countries of Western Europe and other EU Member States. If the proposal were introduced, our country would not be in a time zone with these trading partner countries, but would be in a time series with Ukraine, Romania, Bulgaria and Turkey, for example. And last but not least - you referred to it, so allow me to bring it up - yes, indeed, it is also covered by an EU directive, which we have accepted as binding on our accession, and the derogation from that would only be possible by amending this directive. On this basis, our firm vision and our legal opinion is that Jobbik's proposal is not well founded, if it were adopted, the time difference would change every six months. There is no reason for Hungary - and we have not found any health reasons for this - to change the current position. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2017-04-18-59	Mr. Secretary. Do you know how many countries we have economic relations with that are not in the same time zone with Hungary? I think it's a lot more than lying in a time zone with us, so that's a completely false argument. Six months ago, we were beyond what you said here in most of your speaking time, how much electricity savings this means for Hungary: about 1 percent of annual energy consumption. If that were a valid argument, then this 1 percent saving is more important to you than 80 percent of the Hungarian society's opinion, the sense of society and the state of people's health. That's also a meaningful point of view. However, I have to say that the Hungarian electric control system has said that this savings only occur in the summer. Our proposal is to keep the summer time constant. If the Secretary of State has read the proposal for a resolution, he knows that we submitted it six months ago. So we don't have to give up on this savings. In English: we do not fall away from any economic benefits, but the proposal represents the real will of society and the natural biorhythm of people. That means the government doesn't support it, and Jobbik is waiting for it to be implemented. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-18-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 27 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Congressman Mátyás Firtl, a representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: what does the government do to further reduce waiting lists? It's an address. Congressman Mátyás Firtl has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-18-61	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In July 2012, the Fidesz-KDNP administration introduced a single national institutional waiting list to settle inherited unsustainable conditions. At the start of the system, the aim was clear: the waiting time should be reduced to the usual level in Europe. In 2012, the number of patients on the hospital waiting list was 70,000, and a significant proportion of the list were the most common interventions in Hungarian health care, such as knee and hip replacements, spinal stabilization and cataract operations. Of course, not enough will, the government also provided a source for achieving the goals, which could allow 12-13 thousand additional surgeries per year. These additional interventions aim to ensure that in the case of minor surgeries the waiting period does not exceed two to three months, but larger joint operations can be performed within six months. It is also aimed at reducing waiting lists that since 2015 the list of hospitals that still have free surgical capacity has been available on the OEP website, thereby contributing to the work on lines that have gone too long elsewhere. As part of the program, thousands of patients have so far agreed not to perform their surgery at the regionally competent hospital, so they could take place earlier than expected. In this case, it shall be possible to recover travel expenses, including, where appropriate, an accompanying agent. Dear Secretary of State, In connection with the measures, it was a pleasure to hear the Director General of Csolnoky Ferenc Hospital in Veszprém, who said that the additional funding at the hospital in Veszprém caused the waiting list to be so shortened in the case of hernia and bile surgery that they do not have to keep records at the moment. [[15.00]] Patients will be able to perform the procedures within a few weeks. On the basis of what has been said, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State how long the waiting lists are in Hungary. What does the government do to further reduce waiting lists? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-18-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Bence Rétvári answers the interpellation question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-18-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We could not talk about any single statement before 2010, precisely so that the problem would not come to light, so that there would not be a public address, but that it would remain irresolvable. Therefore, the then socialist government did not create a single electronic waiting list register. This was also waiting for Fidesz-KDNP. From 1 July 2012, we have introduced a completely new, modern, real-time, online, accessible waiting list registration system showing all data with a code, precisely so that we can prioritise the reduction of waiting lists. That's when we faced the number you mentioned, that there were over 70,000 patients on the waiting lists. After that, the successful waiting list reduction programme was launched, with a total of HUF 17.2 billion spent at the end of 2013, HUF 486 million, HUF 431 million in August 2014, HUF 1 billion at the end of 2014, HUF 5 billion in 2015, HUF 5 billion in 2016 and HUF 5 billion this year. This will finance the extra interventions that hospitals have human and operating capacity, but, where appropriate, these operations have not taken place for financing or for any other reason. As you have mentioned, this is financed by other hospitals, as the cost of travel, the cost of intervention in another county, can be covered by the HUF 17.2 billion spent on the waiting list reduction programme. On 1 July 2012, there were 70 170 patients on the waiting lists; in March 2017, 27 307 of the 70 170 waiting patients remained. This means that the number of patients on the waiting lists has decreased by 60 percent and has decreased by 23 percent over the last year. We have to look at these 27,000 patients as having about 200,000 surgeries a year, 200,000 interventions. Compared to this, the number of 27,000 should be considered, which means that hospitals have an annual capacity of at least seven times as high as those on the waiting lists. One and a half months of patients are on these waiting lists, so we can be confident that we can overcome this disadvantage from additional sources. Of course, this is different from hospital to hospital; some are very short, few days old, some are slightly longer. But let us see how the waiting times have changed. A cataract surgery had to wait 600 days before, now according to the waiting list log, 97; the waiting time for hip replacement surgery was reduced from 658 days to 315 days; for knee replacement surgery the waiting time was reduced from 906 days to 376 days according to the register. However, in reality, these periods are shorter than this. In the case of hip replacement, not 315 days, as recorded in the registry, in reality 117 days should be waited, not 376 days in the knee replacement, but 169 days in the case of cataract surgery, and on average 53 days in the case of cataract surgery. But in the case of spinal stabilization surgeries, we now have to wait 10 times as long as it is in the register, so the previous 406 days place 37 days of waiting time. This puts Hungary in a positive, almost beating place, as we are fifth in the European Union, fifth in the fact that one of the fastest people has access to surgery and medical intervention. This is a very important achievement against the inertia, chaos and destruction of left-wing governments. The next step is to have a similar register and development in outpatient care. The government is working on it now. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-18-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Mátyás Firtl if he will accept the State Secretary's answer. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-18-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. You have also demonstrated that the waiting lists have indeed decreased, and this is the result of what the government has started in the field of health over the past few years. I have also interpelled because we really need to talk about this issue, and we need not only to make permanent critical comments. When you reach a certain age, between your family and your narrower family or in a large environment, you will only experience what you have said, Secretary of State, that, indeed, health care has begun to develop what is essential to progress. And when the Member thanks the government, here in Parliament, we should thank all those working in health care for the fact that they could happen in Hungary today. So thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply, I accept. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-18-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, has submitted an interview to the Prime Minister's Office:. How many jobs does the Paks enlargement create? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-04-18-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, You are throwing more and more inability numbers to accept a well-known loss-making Paks expansion investment. More recently, 10,000 jobs have been mentioned in connection with enlargement, which has no basis for reality. According to the preparatory studies carried out in the framework of the Teller and Lévai projects, there are up to 3-4 thousand new jobs, but only at the peak of the construction period, and the majority of the number in question will still be foreign engineers, mainly Russian, with special skills. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The Paks II. Zrt. and published in its own prospectus for 700-800 people marked the amount of new workforce employed in excess of the current Paks population, which, according to preliminary calculations, is very close to reality. But suppose that all professionals are wrong, Vladimir Putin and Viktor Orbán know well, and enlargement does create 10,000 new jobs. In this case, you would create 10,000 jobs with a minimum investment of EUR 10 000 billion, i.e. all jobs would cost EUR 1 million, HUF 310 million. Are you sure this is a good deal? I am asking because according to a study by the CEU that you are about to close now, with the efficient use of available EU resources for energy efficiency, a national thermal insulation and heating modernisation programme would create 100 thousand new jobs for a lasting period of 30-40 years, not at one point, but also across the country, in crisis zones, without any burden on Hungarian taxpayers. So I ask you, on what basis exactly, how many jobs are expected from the Paks expansion. When and for how long will these jobs be available? What's the ratio they'll be filled with foreign professionals? And why do you think that this is worth more than creating much more jobs with EU money, with much less investment, much longer, saving at least the same amount of energy as Paks II. Will it produce? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you.
u2017-04-18-68	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Nándor Csepreghy, Deputy Minister, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2017-04-18-69	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I welcome the fact that the LMP is basically just beginning to accept the facts and recognise what the European Commission is saying that the investment in the Paks nuclear power plant will bring significant benefits to the Hungarian State and Hungary. That is why we see that the party's communication has changed over the last few weeks, and they are trying to find catch on details, although they are wrong. Allow me, Congresswoman, to enlighten you about some of your mistakes on the subject. On the one hand, we are talking about the fact that the development of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is not primarily a job-creating project. The development of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and the maintenance of nuclear power plant capacities in Hungary are basically about how Hungarian power generation can remain sovereign, how Hungary can diversify its energy dependency in such a situation. The Paks Nuclear Power Plant, very briefly, as you know, is about how the Hungarian State will be able to guarantee cheap and predictable electricity for Hungarian consumers and Hungarian industry. So if this has other additional benefits, such as job creation, it is definitely secondary to energy sovereignty. But to talk about additional benefits, allow me to mention three of these in any case. [[15.10]] The first is that, during the development of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and the capacity-building investments, 40 percent of the supply chain will be excluded from Hungarian companies, so the investment amount that we spent in Hungary will be used by Hungarian companies and Hungarian taxpayers, and therefore a great deal of new jobs will be created. The 10,000 you're criticizing is made up of several items. Some studies show that around 7 to 8 000 workers can participate in the construction process themselves, but this only concerns those workers who will do development work on the site itself, and these studies generally do not account for the associated associated additional number of workers serving them. Following the transfer of the new block of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, around 1100 operational colleagues will be needed, which will also be added to this number, and since nuclear power is a high R &amp; D intensive, value-added sector, it can be calculated by creating hundreds of new jobs here as well. However, Congresswoman and LMP are slipping when linking Paks nuclear power plant investment with energy efficiency retail investments, as you should know that heating and heating upgrades in a large part of Hungary's around 3.3 million households do not reduce the country's electricity needs, but can reduce gas demand. However, if there is no Paks, Hungary would need more gas imports, from which electricity can be produced in the long term. Of course you know it, Congresswoman, because you know the studies and government decisions that concern whether, regardless of whether the Paks investment makes faith in maintaining or strengthening the country's energy independence, the government is spending significant amounts either on energy modernisation for the population or for industrial users, so by 2020, the government plans to invest in energy efficiency for a value of HUF 760 billion. If, in the long term, the industry estimates that you have said on a number of occasions really fulfil their expectations, the country's dependence on natural gas will be reduced, as Paks produces up to 50 percent of domestic electricity consumption in case of declining consumption, and it will be possible to generate up to HUF 760 billion of green electricity in Hungary that can reduce Hungary's dependence on natural gas in the medium and long term. Therefore, the Paks investment - let me say this again - is a guarantee that the current Hungarian government can give domestic consumers a predictable and inexpensive price for electricity, whether they are industrial or residential users. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-18-70	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2017-04-18-71	No! No, I can't accept the answer. We are fully aware, Mr. Secretary, that Mr. Paks II. not an investment in employment, actually creating substantial job creation. You practically mentioned the creation of ten thousand jobs, which is obviously not true. That's what we wanted to draw attention to right now. Mr. Secretary. In recent times, we have really been going around the issue from a number of sides, but we see everywhere that we are actually right. You're claiming again that Paks is interesting on the side of cheap and predictable energy. We, I think, have proven repeatedly that this is not true over the past few years. If you look at the cost of setting up yourself, and if you only take one double of what you're planning to cost 4,000 billion, you'll usually find in connection with the water world that the final price will be four to five-six times what you're saying first. Even if it's only double, it could reach HUF 8000-10 000 billion. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] If we incorporate these into the price of nuclear power, there will be no cheap energy.
u2017-04-18-72	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 101 votes in favour, 12 against and 14 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Péter Csizi, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. How has it worked, based on the experience so far, to tighten the legal border seal? It's an address. Congressman Péter Csizi has the floor.
u2017-04-18-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honour, Secretary of State. On 7 March, the amendments to the law that created the legal border closure came into force, giving Hungary security and, of course, creating security for Europe, the European Union. It was necessary to take this step, since in the future the Hungarian state border should be able to withstand a larger migration pressure of up to 100,000. Unfortunately, after the adoption of the bill, as is usually the case, as we expected, our country was under fire, and the organisations calling themselves the defenders started attacking our country on the day of the adoption of the legislative package, attacking Hungarian border protection measures, and campaigning against our country simply because we do not allow illegal arrivals to actually go there and do whatever they want in the heart of Europe. Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, it has already been repeatedly proven that illegal migration also has very serious internal security risks. Unfortunately, there is already a series of acts of terrorism in cities in Western Europe, and unfortunately there is almost no day to hear about acts of violence committed by illegal immigrants. It is unacceptable for migrants to abuse the application for political asylum and use it to disappear in the heart of Europe, who knows what purpose, who knows what purpose. The Hungarian tightened rule system is also absolutely consistent in this respect and serves the purpose of ensuring that no migrant stays uncontrolled and illegally in the territory of Hungary, thereby increasing the risk of Hungary's internal security; and we have Schengen border protection tasks, let us say that we also serve Europe. While Western European countries have previously been the main target of terrorists, unfortunately, we must now be prepared to allow terrorist activities to shift towards Eastern Central Europe. It is therefore in Hungary's interest that illegal immigrants whose asylum applications have not yet been settled by Hungary should not be able to move freely on the territory of Hungary. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, after all this, I ask what is your experience, what is the experience of the Ministry of Interior, how the tightening of the legal border seal has worked, how the institution of the legal border lock has worked. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-18-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-18-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Based on the experience gained so far, it can be said that the tightening measures on the legal border closure have proven and function successfully. No one has been able to enter Hungary illegally since the entry into force of the strengthened legal border closure, because the authorities have prevented this. The migrants who were caught in depth were escorted to the transit zone. Three weeks ago, the strengthened legal border lock was in place, and the terrorist attacks over the last few weeks confirmed the need for tightening up. In St. Petersburg, 14 people died in the subway explosion, in Stockholm, a displaced migrant killed 4 people, and there were Islamist terrorist attacks in Egypt. Even Frontex - Frontex is the European Union's Border Protection Agency - warns that terrorists can arrive in Europe among migrants. The objective of the strengthened legal border closure is, as the Member said, to reduce the security risks associated with migration and to ensure that no one enters the territory of Hungary and the European Union uncontrolled. Stopping illegal migration is also a matter of national security, a matter of national security. The security of Europe is perceived to be deteriorating, and the internal security of the States is caused by the sudden and uncontrolled mass of migrants, the vast majority of which did not want to fit in. On the other hand, there is order in Hungary today, and although there is unfortunately no 100 percent security in its world, the Hungarian people are as safe as possible. Since the restrictions, the number of illegal border crossings has decreased significantly, and instead of taking control and identification, migrants are avoiding the Hungarian border. New routes, such as Romania, are being tried, so tightening up also has a deflecting effect. The police and the military are constantly monitoring the new routes, and, if necessary, will take further measures to ensure the safety of Hungary. [[15.20]] Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, According to the fresh data this morning, the number of people in transit zones is 144, of which Röszkén has 65 people, and Tompán has 79 people. Since the entry into force of the tighten-up on 28 March, the number of asylum applications submitted has been 140, Röszkén 69, Tompán 71; 22 illegal immigrants from the interior of the country have been returned to the border. In addition to the legal border closure, the physical border lock is also being strengthened. The construction of the second fence is going well at the planned pace. The new report adopted by the European Parliament in favour of migrants made it clear that Brussels, instead of changing its failed immigration policy, continues to force it. We are facing great struggles, Honourable Parliament, honourable Member, which is why we need the support of the Hungarian people. The government launched a national consultation in order to ask the Hungarian people about illegal migration. We ask the support of the Hungarian people to continue our effective policy towards illegal migration for the safety of Hungarian people, Hungary and the security of the European Union. I ask the honourable Member to accept my reply. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-04-18-76	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-04-18-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I accept the reply of the Secretary of State, because as a Member of the Parliament of Pécs, I remember very well by the summer of 2015 what unblessed conditions there were at the train station in Pécs, 45 kilometres from the southern border. We Pécsi can see the effect of the physical border closure and how much the protection of Hungary and the Hungarians has been strengthened with the legal border closure. But I cannot stress that when we defend our borders, with which we protect Schengen borders, we are actually serving Europe and also serving the protection of the European Union. Therefore, the criticisms that come from Europe, the European Union, are unacceptable, as we are creating our common European defence, our European security with each measure, and therefore should be grateful to Hungary in all countries of Europe. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-04-18-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Who hinders the State Secretary for Health from working? It's an address. Mr István Tukacs has the floor.
u2017-04-18-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, An extensive interview with the State Secretary for Health was published the other day. In fact, this discussion explores why the State Secretary's own five programme points are not met or why it is seriously delayed. As a reminder, these five points included kicking out the elderly and the sick, the chancellor system, the super hospital in Budapest and so on. The Secretary of State gave a surprising answer as to why his points have not been met. Hang on, he said it was the opposition attacks. He took the Chancellor system off the agenda because of opposition attacks, and that's why all the other points are being carried out. I have in front of my soul the image of the Secretary of State, terrified by the terrible anger of the opposition, who then suddenly stops acting. But this, my fellow Members, is limping, why is it that the anger of the opposition has not been intimidated by the person who has submitted the casino law tailored to Andy Vajna, or by the CEU law adopted just recently? Dear Secretary of State, I think the reason is a little different. The opposition is not the reason why the Secretary of State is unable to fulfil his duties; it is the tasks with which we have otherwise fundamentally disagreed, and our attacks were, of course, justified. The problem is the lack of money and the lack of qualified staff. That is why the chancellor system had to be removed from the agenda; therefore, it is not clear to me where the case of the hospital in Budapest is, for example. That is why, quite rightly, it is necessary to postpone the removal of elderly and sick people from the hospital's chronic classes, such as those in bed. And I think it is absolutely wrong that a public health programme has not been completed, and there is not even a valid document for what the health government wants to do. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, I would be flattered if it were true, but it is not the opposition that is to blame for the fact that the State Secretary is incapable of action, but the state of the budget, the general professional demise, and the state of the health that you like to praise, but the people do not feel so. I would point out that once a national consultation has been launched, an orphan question in these letters would be worth a question about health care. I'd like to know what people would say. If the Secretary of State continues to ask such questions, the reason why hospital debt has been regenerating is because doctors are being seduced from one another and wages are being pushed to the sky, which is why there is debt, we should rather consider how doctors can be kept at home. These are the main problems, not what the Secretary of State has put in front of you. But I wonder, Mr. Secretary, who is stopping the gentleman from working? Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-04-18-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-18-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, So, if I understand your point correctly, it is that there were five points of the Secretary of State that you opposed as soon as he said them, and now you are opposed to why some of them will be implemented later and not immediately, not immediately, why we are not over these implementations. The Hungarian Socialist Party opposes the same and the opposite. [[Nándor Gúr: Put it back together again!]] In relation to health, a very important, not only consultation, but also a referendum took place in 2004 - this is the only thing we remember less, since we can remember the other question of the referendum on 5 December in parallel - in which we asked the Hungarian people whether healthcare is a business for them, whether privatisation can be allowed to take place in health care. And then a clear and very large majority of people said that no, health is not a business and not a privatization space. On the other hand, you have tried to carry out many covert privatisation procedures, through the operation of hospitals to the delivery of patients, in a variety of areas, outsourcings and others, and even patients, when they tried to introduce a visitation fee, and this was only stopped by another referendum. [[Nándor Gúr: What are you talking about?]] But not only do you understand from the consultations, but also from the referendums, because either the privatisation or the visitation fee or the hospital daily allowance could only be stopped by referendum, with the overwhelming majority of people's will. On the other hand, you were the Secretary of State of the government that successfully reduced the budget of the Health Fund from 1500 billion to 1300 billion. [[Sándor Szabó's continuous interventions.]] Which, of course, this government had to restore, because now it is much higher, hundreds of billions of forints higher, is the budget from which health care can manage. But where the result of this government can really be measured, it is that at the time of the change of government, a full-time doctor could bring home 338 thousand forints along with various allowances. [[Nándor Gúr: Abroad...]] This could be 611 thousand forints instead of 338 thousand forints. [[Nándor Gúr: Foreigners who crossed the border... Intercom from the benches of the MSZP: in England!]] While in the case of a nurse, a worker can now earn over HUF 270 000 instead of a gross salary of HUF 170 925 [[Nándor Gúr: You can't put this together... continuous noise in the room.]] and it now pays much less tax, pays much less contributions, especially if [[The president's ringing the bell.]] have a child [[Nándor Gúr: Doctors are losing weight, nurses are losing weight...]] In that case, both net and gross earnings may coincide. And it is an important achievement for this government that not only last year's medical wages have increased, not only this year's medical wages have increased, but also nursing wages have increased last year, this year and even the coming years. Last year they grow by 26.5%, this year by 12 percent, and then by 8 and 8 percent in the coming years. This is precisely what we are trying to achieve, honourable Member, what you are always talking about, but have never taken action to make the wages of those who work there noticeably grow in health care. However, it was also important to increase the financial appreciation of general practitioners and to increase the resources available for basic care. [[Sándor Szabó: No doctor! Nándor Gúr: What are you talking about?]] This is now nearly 50 percent higher than in 2010. Last year and the year before last, the additional funding of general practitioners increased by HUF 10-10 billion. [[Nándor Gúr: What are you talking about?]] Precisely in order not to have unfilled GP practices in difficult walks, we launched the residency application with non-refundable support, the practice contest, also with non-refundable support, for which this year's budget has a record high amount of HUF 1 billion 250 million. [[Nándor Gúr keeps interrupting.]] When you were a State Secretary, during the period of that government, there was an equal amount for both establishment and practice, zero forints in the budget. That's how you promoted the establishment of the GPs with a strong hair. We tried hard to spend HUF 1 billion 250 million for this purpose. [[Nándor Gúr: Look around what's in health care...]] And I'd like to talk about the HUF 500 billion infrastructure renovation. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This year's budget for the super hospital, despite your non-voting vote, is HUF 40 billion. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-04-18-82	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-04-18-83	Mr President, I won't accept the answer because the Secretary of State hasn't answered. Mr. Secretary, I always feel like I'm listening to you, like we're in the government and you're in the opposition. [[Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties.]] He is fond of dealing with a certain socialist period of government, and he has a single opinion on the current conditions: here is the Canaan. [[15.30]] If everything is all right, Mr. Secretary, then why are only two layers dissatisfied with health: the doctor and the patient? Dear Secretary of State, Health care is in a derelict situation, but to make it clear to you, don't leave it in doubt, I asked you this question. Why does the government State Secretary for Health take on his own responsibilities, and why does he want to put responsibility on the opposition in a transparent way? That was the question, no more and no less, and you didn't answer that, Mr. Secretary, so there's nothing to accept. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-04-18-84	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 29 votes in favour and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, a representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:.Why do Hungarians have to reach deep into their pockets when they buy medicine. It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-04-18-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, in the last 27 years, Hungarian patients have become accustomed to drawing the shorter draw in everything, and they are not even shaken by the fact that the country is becoming more and more backward in international comparisons. While Lőrinc Mészáros is constantly coming forward on the list of billionaires, we may soon be able to welcome him as a billionaire. While the government is filling the pockets of landlords and stromones with money, patients are forced to spend more and more on health care from their own pockets, most of the Hungarian patients pay for health care from their own pockets, most of which stand out to buy medicines. This is the case, and the fact is that every year patients have to spend more out of their own pockets on medicine, because the government has started to save money on drug subsidies. Because with one stroke of pen, he left nearly HUF 45 billion in funding, and did so by continuing to bear the burden. And patients are already spending the same amount - and this change - of medicine as the state spends, while in most parts of Europe, in most parts of the state, they support spending drugs in two-thirds of the time instead of 50-50. To compare and make clear how the Hungarian patients are and how they stand, it is worth examining only the neighbouring states: for example, in Slovakia, the state helps Slovak patients buy medicines twice as much as in Hungary the state, the Slovak patient, is twice as important to the Slovak state as the Hungarian patient to the Hungarian State. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Shame!]] And the burden is not small, 3.3 million Hungarians regularly become drug users in the pharmacy every year, who face rising prices every year, and thus face the tight grip of the government. Most, HUF 16 billion is spent on medicines in the 65-69-year-old population, and in terms of disease groups, the drugs prescribed for cardiovascular problems are lost in most of our countries, and chronic patients are the most affected. On average, people leave 10 billion forints a month in pharmacies only as the price of prescription drugs, i.e., if you look at how much the state does not support the population, you can say that the oldest age group, chronic patients, but children are deprived of billions by the state. Ladies and gentlemen, So, in conclusion, the government has abandoned the sick people in their drug spendings, saying to them, "If you want to heal, you pay." Worse still, chronic patients most in need and patients in the most difficult situation are at risk of taking medication costs. In view of all this, I ask the Secretary of State why the government has reduced the funding of medicines, why it has withdrawn nearly HUF 45 billion from the subsidies, why the government wants to save money on chronic patients. I look forward to your reply with all due respect. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-18-86	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-04-18-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In your interpellation, everything other than dates, omens, and numbers was right. You seem so intoxicated by your own introduction that you couldn't exactly quote any number after that, allow me to fix these in a row. It is undoubtedly true what you said in your introduction to a situation in 2010, which is the direction of the trends, because before 2010, it was indeed a rather deplorable picture, since 60 billion forints were withdrawn from the drug support system. There, from HUF 367 billion to HUF 298 billion, what the state has spent on this has increased the retail burden, and much more than the 3.3 million you mentioned, 7.3 million people go to the pharmacy at least once a year, and about 3 million every two months, so they are the regular pharmacy visiter. What you believe, however, is an additional burden of HUF 45 billion for patients, well, honourable Member, in 2010, Hungarian patients, the Hungarian population spent HUF 134 billion on pharmaceuticals, and this decreased to HUF 125 billion in a few years, so they spend much less than HUF 125 billion instead of 134. So, according to your logic, you should add 45 billion to this, so you believe that this amount is around 180 billion, while it fell from 134 to 125, so the sign is wrong, Mr. honourable Member, and from this 125 billion you still have to deduct 16 billion forints, which the central budget will take over to take over the spending of medicines for patients in social need, so the Hungarian people are now spending much less on medicine. Why did all this happen? That's because we've introduced the bidding process for the blind. This means that every six months, not knowing each other's offers, pharmaceutical manufacturers can submit new price reductions on the active substance content. They are blind because they do not know what prices the others are submitting and the content of the active substance matters, so it is not the name of the medicines, so the amount of drug expenditure has decreased year after year. The patients saved HUF 7.5 billion already in the first year, with an additional HUF 2.5 billion in 13 and an additional HUF 2 billion in 14. So it's in the order of $10 billion that the patients saved because of the blind bet. Let me give you a few examples: cholesterol-lowering medicine was 1700 forints in 2009, this is 185 forints. The price of a medicinal product containing cylostazole for peripheral arterial disease, i.e., decreased by HUF 918, decreased by HUF 526, decreased by HUF 534 to the price of a medicinal product for heart failure, and, furthermore, new, modern therapeutic options have been included to prevent cancer, stroke or bleeding disorders. We spend 20 billion forints more to cure chronic diseases, and the cost of therapy for cancer has already increased to 180 billion forints, which is 60 percent higher than it was in 2010. And let me correct the biggest nonsense you've said, honourable Member. You said that the Hungarian state must cover at least two thirds of the expenditure on medicines. Honourable Congressman, It covered 74.5 percent already in 2010, since then it has increased to 75.8 percent, and if I add public health care, it is 78,5 percent. This subsidy rate, 78,5 percent, would be down to 66 percent Jobbik, which, if I count quickly, would be quite significant, let's say, a 15 percent reduction compared to the current level of supply. So I guess patients can't be more afraid of anything than Jobbik's drug support system. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-88	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-04-18-89	I have no intention of accepting the answer, Mr President. I can recommend to Mr Secretary of State of Rétvár that he sometimes browse the OECD or even the Central Statistical Office database instead of his own statistics, because there he is described in the report on Hungary in a round pretzel at the international organisation that Hungarian patients are the most vulnerable in Hungary to the fact that the state does not bear enough burden in their pharmaceuticals. You can't argue with this statistics, I suggest you look at the OECD database, all indicators point in this direction. By the way, what you have told us is completely contrary to reality, because we should talk to general practitioners, talk to child-hospital doctors, we can see that there are hundreds of patients in every practice who, because of high prices, because of small support, are unable to replace the right medicines, the necessary medicines every day. If the drug price support worked well, if the state drug support worked well, this wouldn't happen. Jobbik is working on a pharmaceutical support system in which chronic patients are... [[15.40]]
u2017-04-18-90	Thank you, Congressman, I expect your answer with respect.
u2017-04-18-91	... and in which children can be supported, and there will be no drug induced in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-92	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 27 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Ikotity István, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, Will the plans to reduce the number of high school students be withdrawn? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2017-04-18-93	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Minister of State for Education László Palkovics, while actively contributing to the destruction of CEU, made important announcements these days. The government seems to have deliberately scheduled the release of new plans in the middle of the scandal, in case it goes dark. It may not be worth comparing the harmful effects of the individual measures, since one is more harmful than the other, but we are talking about measures that affect more families, students and educators than the impossibility of CEU. However, the LMP strongly protests against further anti-knowledge measures. But what did László Palkovics talk about in Szombathely, on a forum? He announced that, together with the introduction of the central admission, it would also determine how many students could be admitted to high school, vocational school and vocational school; I deliberately used his old titles instead of new misleading names. The Fidesz-KDNP government has tried to limit high school education before, but it seems that they have now found the perfect method. They want to get fewer high school students by setting general admission and central frame numbers. And fewer high school students obviously mean that tens of thousands of children will be excluded from the possibility of acquiring a high level of general education and university further education. Less high school students, of course, mean fewer college students later. Moreover, Mr Secretary of State made a reference to the closure of schools in small settlements. This would be an anti-communal, anti-communicative step in the policy of school closure of former MSZP-SZDSZ governments. Close small settlement schools and direct students to larger settlements, by busing them, would mean giving up villages and villages for good. Dear Secretary of State, The LMP objects to the isolation of the individual and social ascension path, to the taking of such measures. We call on the government to withdraw these plans and to stop restricting knowledge in this way. You can't, you can't lead everyone to vocational training. The possibility of further education in high school is a chance to create a Hungarian society that can adapt flexibly and much better to the challenges of the age and thus achieve a more complete Hungary. Please withdraw these. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-04-18-94	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-04-18-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I do not know exactly what to withdraw, because I think the legislation in force makes it quite clear how and how it is mandatory to maintain schools in small towns. I am no longer sure whether LMP supported or opposed this bill, but in general it votes against all of them, and probably voted against this too. After 2010, we started the administration of Fidesz-KDNP by reopening some of the schools that the government in front of us closed in small settlements, precisely to create the possibility for everyone to go to kindergarten or to go to elementary school everywhere. The current Public Education Act states that in the case of 8 people, i.e. 8 children in kindergarten or 8 children in lower school age, if the population figures show that this juvenile population is likely to last for three years, and the parents still require and ask for it, then on the spot both kindergarten and primary school must be taken care of locally. I think this figure is very low, even in European comparison, that after eight children, a kindergarten or school should be maintained by the state. By doing so, we make it clear that we are trying to ensure that these public services are of a similar standard for everyone. This is exactly what we declared war on very sharply in 2010, this former liberal socialist principle, that we should eliminate the possibility of living in small settlements with postal closure, school closure, kindergarten closure and many other things, but we will open up these opportunities to go to school on and off, approach schools in a regional perspective, because we consider it more important for a lower school to be able to do in its own settlement. Obviously, we need a minimum number of classes and schools, but we went to a minimum here, because we think that breaking out of the original environment might be more of a concern, so we have introduced legislation that is extremely favourable for small settlements, and they have fulfilled our expectations in kindergartens and elementary schools. So it is a priority for us to continue to keep it, and for this we have established an institution maintenance network that is able to actually maintain it. Because in your kind of dreamy image, when they're all being held up by the local authorities, that model didn't work. This led to mass school closures, because the municipalities did not have the money to maintain schools. But the reason that state institution maintenance was important was that it had to be built because it was able to maintain schools of 8 people, to start classes of 8 people, and to compensate for these disadvantages. Your model, which makes it run and maintain in the local government, will lead to a certain closure, because it already led to that before 2010. It is only the low Fidesz-KDNP class numbers and, moreover, the state reserve that can open up the possibility of education for people living in small towns. Which means admissions, honourable Member, we would like to see entry into high school as a hallway to being admitted to college. It is therefore necessary to establish quality criteria for entry into high school that, if you have a really good academic record, you will be in high school and you will have almost a straight way to university. It's a con you're telling us to get everyone into high school, and then at 18, we tell them, yeah, your skills are not enough to get into college, but you've spent the last four years trying to get into college, when you've seen that before, four years earlier, that your abilities are limited. That's why your suggestion is a sham. In six-year high schools, eight-year high schools, the same system has been in place for 15 years, almost unchanged for 12 years, so we hope that this quality criterion can benefit everyone, families and students as well. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-96	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-04-18-97	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I really had a fantasy, that the request I made to withdraw these plans, and you're definitely telling me that they're gonna stop, that was my dream. What you've just told me about high school is that this college hall is basically you're saying that when you're 13, you're gonna decide whether you're gonna be a college student or not. Technically, you set up such a system, and everything else who would like to apply for a general education is cut off from it, because you know very well that the new term vocational schools, previously vocational schools, can't provide this, because they have significantly taken back the knowledge material there. Secretary of State, about small-town schools and school closures, so much so that 664 institutions have been closed since your government's time since 2010, here is the list of them; 664, George Soros did not gather them, it is in your information system, you can see it, Mr. Secretary of State.
u2017-04-18-98	I'm waiting for an answer, Congressman.
u2017-04-18-99	I don't accept it.
u2017-04-18-100	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 28 against and without abstentions. [[15.50]] Dear Parliament, Zsolt Nyitrai, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: - How does the Government of Hungary recognise the work of pharmacists? It's an address. Mr Zsolt Nyitrai has the floor.
u2017-04-18-101	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for the floor. When the Orbán government started its work in 2010, it found itself faced with a ravaged pharmacist's calling and an unsustainable pharmaceutical supply model forced on the profession. The paticalization adopted by the Socialists has brought a serious economic, professional and moral crisis to the entire sector: loss-making pharmacies, unpaid accounts to wholesalers, drugstores degraded to commercial units by offshore businesses and pharmaceutical chains, and a series of unprofessional decisions by circumventing the professional chamber. As a result of these decisions, in 2010 it appeared that the goal for pharmacists was to regain economic stability and professional appreciation. On 15 March 2010, the Hungarian Pharmacy Chamber and the civil forces concluded a strategic agreement. What does the Hungarian pharmacist want? In 12 points, the document entitled "The Hungarian Pharmacy Society" summarized the most important tasks related to the Hungarian Pharmacy Society. Dear Parliament, In the last seven years, thanks to the joint efforts of the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Pharmacy Association, we can say that for the first time since the 1950 nationalization, 8300 pharmacists and 7500 pharmacist-assistants have become the majority owner of the pharmacy. Therefore, there were opportunities for pharmacists to once again become respected and recognized members of the Hungarian middle class within the framework of the supply of medicinal products that meet the needs of patients. Today, the economic crisis that had arisen earlier in the profession has essentially been brought to an end and stabilisation has started. Restoration of the professional competences of the pharmacist profession has begun and the professional crisis is resolved. The success of the pharmaceutical sector in recent years was clearly due to the dialogue with the profession and to the hearing and adoption of proposals. Dear Secretary of State, Taking into account the above, I ask you what pharmacists can expect from Hungary's government in the near future, what additional measures they intend to use to recognise and help their work. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-04-18-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In 2010, the pharmaceutical sector, the pharmacy sector, was in a difficult situation, since the Socialist-liberal government, as the Member said, only considered this profession as a mere business. He did not look at the fact that pharmacists were in the hands of pharmacists to determine the operation of pharmacies; they only looked at the profit, the margin, where, who, how he could gain the greatest profit, if he bought up pharmacies, if he organized pharmacies in chains, and thus published advertisements, or tried to maximize his profits. On the other hand, the Fidesz-KDNP has concluded the strategic agreement you mentioned for the benefit of patients, for the benefit of the patient's recovery and for the benefit of the sector, the apothecary sector, and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has personally visited the Chamber to agree on these objectives. This strategic alliance also had a very important legislative appearance, that on 1 January of this year, on 1 January 2017 it was stipulated that the ownership of pharmacists in the pharmacy should exceed 50%. This was a first step by 1 January 2014, it had to reach 25 per cent, and now it has to reach 50 per cent, but in this buyout, the pharmacists buy the pharmacy themselves and not be owned by various speculative companies. The State has also tried to provide assistance in this regard, since it has established the pharmacy fund, from which it has granted a highly preferential loan. Now we have a 1.5 percent interest on this loan that we have been able to give to the apothecaries, and first we have extended the source that the apothecaries can obtain to buy their own shares to a budget of 60 and then 150 million forints. As a result, Hungarian pharmacies and Hungarian pharmacists have now become the majority of the investor's property, and obviously this attitude is reflected in the fact that not only profit determines their operation, but also pharmaceutical safety, patient safety and professionalism have become more important. Fortunately, we have managed to stabilise the pharmacy, pharmacy and extend the possibility of economic operation to small settlements. There are 500 settlements where there is only one pharmacy in the entire settlement, and it is strategically important - although there is no representative of the LMP now, but it is strategically important - to keep the pharmacy in small settlements, so we will strengthen their operation with special support from 700 million forints per year. From 528 to below 200 in 5 years, the number of loss-making pharmacists has fallen, but the profits in the pharmacy sector have increased to a very large extent, from HUF 7.9 billion to HUF 25 billion, while the price of over 100 medicines has also decreased. Overall, it can be said that the price of pharmaceuticals in pharmacy is far above the outstanding amounts of pharmaceuticals, or in the prices that have not yet been paid to suppliers as debts, and are finally owned by Hungary, they are national-owned, the pharmacists own the pharmacies, thus strengthening patient safety, and by doing so, after a very dark socialist-liberal government, we have managed to show that once they start privatization is not controlled but based on financial speculation, there is also a way back from there, because pharmacies have been withdrawn from the financial perspective of professional, pharmacist and patient safety. This is a great success, and a very big thank you to the pharmacies' operators, the pharmacists who were partners in this administration. We trust that this is for the benefit of the patients. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-104	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I will ask Congressman Zsolt Nitrai if he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2017-04-18-105	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your meaningful answer. I think it is very important that we have been able to talk about this in public at the Parliament, as more than 8300 pharmacists work in Hungary and more than 7500 pharmacists' assistants help their work. On an annual basis, over 60 million customer/pharmacologist meetings will take place. The most important result from the past period is that I clearly believe that pharmacists and pharmacists may have been in possession. I think it would be very important for the government to continue to work on such forward-looking programmes in the future, and allow me to thank Hungarian pharmacists and pharmacists' assistants in front of the public of the Hungarian Parliament for their very persistent and responsible work every day. Thank you very much for your attention and I accept your answer, of course. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the National Development Minister: It's an address. Mr Sándor Burány has the floor.
u2017-04-18-107	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, There is not a day that goes by that we do not find out how the costs of the soon-to-be-start water World Championship increase. Last we learned from the announcements that the money for the sporting event will be increased by another HUF 7.8 billion, including HUF 3.8 billion for the opening and closing ceremony, a billion forints for security services, and 3 billion for the renovation of the Hajós Alfréd and Széchy Swimming Pool, are planned to be spent at present. I must make a detour here, as it is known that according to the house rules, the declared version of the interpellation should not contain any new information compared to the written version. In view of the fact that I have previously submitted this interpellation, I insist on the written version, and I am obliged to do so by the house rules. But let's get back to the point. In fact, does the government know how much water is going to cost taxpayers in the end? Just to remind you, the cost of the World Championship was estimated at 8 billion in the beginning, then it became 25 billion, now we are over 100 billion forints; in Hungarian, they were quite miscalculated. I must also remind you that, according to the Government's decision at the beginning of the year, the principal cannot accept an offer that exceeds 30 percent of the proposed bid. This was explained by the government's need to prevent unjustified spending and to take a stand by judicial experts already at 15 percent. [[16.00]] As far as purchases are concerned, in the furniture market, a company that is still starting a course was ordered in a non-bidden procedure, according to which it can deliver furniture for more than half a billion forints for this year's World Water Championship. According to a company information database, the winner is kft. only on 17 November last year, he registered the activities of the wholesale trade in furniture, carpets and lighting equipment and the wholesale trade in office furniture, and the contract was concluded on 8 February this year. So here's what I'm gonna ask you. How do they explain government confidence in a non-referenced enterprise? Has the government complied with strict rules on public procurement? What is the current cost of the World Championship today? I look forward to hearing from the government. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-18-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary János Fónagy responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-04-18-109	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Maybe we should start with the details first. Vatner Kft. won during the procurement of furniture production. Since 2010, he has been involved in the transportation and production of office, medical and custom furniture at the parent company, Hargamon Kft., which is 100% owned. through its subsidiary. In October 16, the latter company was sold, the activity was registered in the parent company, which wanted to continue the activity with the previous employees and production lines. The company's references include office furniture, custom furniture, medical furniture worth millions of HUF. So this company has been operating since 2010. The other references of the Member are as accurate as this. By the way, in 2017, the World Water Championship, which will take place in Hungary this year, is the largest sporting event in Hungary, one of the four most prestigious and largest sporting events in the world, and the acquisition of the right of settlement is a major success in sports diplomacy. The event will be followed by hundreds of millions of people around the world, so our opportunity to strengthen the country's image is very significant, and the settlement will have a long-term impact on the country's economic performance. The organisation of such a world competition requires great organizing work, major investments and infrastructure improvements from the host. We knew that from the beginning, and our basic numbers didn't change. They have not changed just because most of the organisational costs include the items required by the international association, without which we could not organise a World Championship. The items appearing in the press from time to time are not new, they are simply intended to appear as new. In fact, we are talking about planned costs. I hope that Mr President will also see that the costs of settlement, swimming pools, infrastructure development or security services, furniture, opening and closing events are necessary for the settlement of such a world event. By the way, each procurement was carried out in compliance with the public procurement rules. It is also worth examining these costs from the point of view that the related improvements would have been made regardless of competition, not the costs of the World Championship. The renovation of the swimming pools is an old debt settlement, and the Hungarian swimming sport with outstanding results and performance deserves to be prepared under the right conditions in swimming pools worthy of world-class results. The World Championship's right to settle accelerated both the capital and the capital XIII. The district of Budapest will be an even more livable, more habitable and livable city with the implementation of its previous development needs. So I respectfully ask the Parliament and the Member to welcome the opportunity to settle this world competition, to work together to organise it properly, and not to drag it down into the mud because of daily political considerations. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-18-110	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-04-18-111	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would just like to remind the Secretary of State that we did not call the swimming pool a bluff, but you did. We don't come up with additional costs every day, the opposition didn't leave out the tower, the tower designed to jump the tower, you did. Not companies close to the opposition, but companies close to you win these orders. Not a week goes by that we don't wake up to another cost increase in the water world. Mr. Secretary. That answer is simply impossible to accept. There are two aspects of your World Series: they want to sell all the attractions to the people, they can even invite the Rolling Stones if they're willing to play; and the buddy companies want to steal as much of the public money as possible. This activity, this response, is unacceptable. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-18-112	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 13 against and 14 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It's 16 hours and 6 minutes, and we're going to go over the immediate questions. I would like to ask my fellow Members who wish to leave the Chamber because of their urgent public duties to do so, preferably quietly and quietly, so that we can continue our work. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Why is Fidesz serving foreign power? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2017-04-18-113	Thank you very much, Mr President, it is an honour, but I will wait for the Prime Minister, and I want to hear the answer from him. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-18-114	Thank you very much for the Member's reply. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Gergely Bárándy, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question with the title 3 "Friends, Friends and Others." Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will personally ask Mr President for an answer.
u2017-04-18-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As usual, I'd wait for Mr. President. Thank you.
u2017-04-18-116	Thank you. Mr President will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Gergely Bárándy, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Prime Minister János Lázár appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he asks the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2017-04-18-117	I'll take it, thank you.
u2017-04-18-118	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-18-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, There is no need to prove public facts even in court, so it does not mean that regimes like which you operate are always in the way of thinking people, especially if they are grouped together, if they act as a mental workshop or are organised to achieve goals. Which small, large or even pocket Putin needs a critical mass of people who do not serve the regime? CEU teachers are like this: a team of critical, educated, smart, thinking people. Which is a major sin for them to be more like it. And, of course, who needs critical civilians? Well, on a good puppy pattern, the government has already established its own NER conformations, which do not even allow themselves a critical remark against the system. For example, there is the COF, but besides them is the View Point or the Centre for Fundamental Rights, full of decent, Christian, conservative, respectable people. What do we need here, Helsinki Committee, Transparency International or TASZ, but slowly even a century's end? Civil control is the basis for democracy. Civilians of the Putin type, on the other hand, are only fit to maintain democratic scenery, but they are useless, unnecessary public nipples; they are part of the state propaganda machine, nothing more than that. The fact that critical civilians are being branded is not a question. But I would like to ask what is the next plan, Minister, just because we understand that first we must clearly set the target and then we can proceed with sanctions. It's always been like this, there's no new under the sun - first only the yellow star came in then. [[Grumble in the ranks of Fidesz.]] [[16.10]] They're on the road to Putin, Mr. Minister. They'll be impossible. We'll have public relations offices and public chambers, just like the Russians. Or will it be different? And while we're talking like this, please interpret Viktor O.'s openly inciting statement that his palm is itchy from the protestors. 'Cause I don't think it's possible to interpret that as a covert assault by calling on your own sympathizers. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-18-120	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-04-18-121	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, Thank you for asking. What's on the government, I'll try to answer. I note here, especially for the protocol, that the government did not submit a regulatory proposal on civilians to the Parliament, the Ministry of Justice indicated that it was in favour of the Government, but it is clear that, with regard to the legislative intention, my fellow Members of Parliament who made a proposal must be consulted. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] At the same time, I would like to reassure you, Mr President, and all your fellow Members, that the Government has no intention of restricting anyone's right in Hungary, whether it concerns the establishment of a university, whether it concerns the exercise of an opinion or the exercise of the right of association. I think that, Mr Congressman - and you must agree with that, too, who is a great fighter of transparency and transparency - that if a public figure or political force involved in the formation of public life is obliged to disclose its financial data, then this can also be expected from those who are not elected as party politicians, local or parliamentary representatives or political parties on the stage of public life, but who are so to exercise their right to form public life. What is to be contested if an organisation representing its position in the field of public life has to indicate where it receives subsidies, whether from within the country's borders or from outside the country's borders? What is the problem with the need to indicate that a civil society organisation involved in public life and forming public life is trying to support it? What was Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's comment on Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's statement: in this country, everyone must observe the laws in connection with the protest, and I would like to draw his attention to the fact that there are people in this country - not a few - who were not at the protest and cannot agree to throwing a state institution or actually rallying on the streets of Budapest. There are also voters who disagree. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-122	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2017-04-18-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, What you have said is loud, but if we don't think of each other as completely stupid, then I think that you too acknowledge that it is difficult to believe that the government did not know what the legislative intention was here and did not know what kind of proposal some of its fellow Members would like to submit. It's the same proposal as the others again. Formally, its representatives are a separate motion, and practically, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has also ordered this as well, as all other similar proposals. You know, Minister, when you think of this kind of legislation, perhaps the words of the Venezuelan dictator Hugo Chávez are most appropriate here, which says that to my friends anything, the law of my enemies. I think that's what you do in this country. I can only sincerely hope, Minister, that your words, which you have just said, namely that you will not follow any sanctions, I will not have to quote many times here in Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-18-124	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Minister János Lázár is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2017-04-18-125	Dear Congressman, If your speech was intended to discuss the situation of Hungarian democracy, I think that it is not appropriate to have two minutes and twice a minute, perhaps we should provide a more orderly framework - it is worth it. And my second point is, I'm not planning on making you look stupid. I tried to answer your question, which, I think, was not possible in the two-minute and one-minute timeframe. I would also like to say to you, which is also not appropriate for the two minutes or the one minute that no one from the government side has had any objections to CEU's activities, Mr President. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: CF!]] We just want CEU founders to have the same rights and obligations [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: COFFEE!]] , like other university founders in Hungary. I think you should agree with the principle of equal rights. Everyone must be equal before the law. Everybody respect that. That was the government's position in the CEU case. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: No CEU! C.E.F.! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-126	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: Prime Minister János Lázár appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he is asking the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2017-04-18-127	The "you" term refers to the Prime Minister and his circle. I'll wait for Prime Minister to answer. Thank you.
u2017-04-18-128	Thank you. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: When will the people of Nagykőrös return the channel money they have paid back? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-18-129	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I am acting in the interest of the people living in Nagykőrös and injured by the local government's sewer investment, and I ask for your support. Here's what happened. In Nagykőrös there was an investment in the sewers, 85 percent of the investment was paid out of EU funds and 15 percent was charged to the population. Forints 150 to 200 thousand per dwelling, per family, was the part that was collected from the people through the local government's water utility association, and this was the way this investment could be made. It turned out, however, that the municipality could produce HUF 558 million from another source, so people had a right to think that this part of the money they paid would be repaid. However, the Fidesz mayor of the city, Szabolcs Czira, decided differently, without the consent of the people of Nagykőrös, without their permission, he spent the money of the people of Nagykőrös on other roads. At the time when we approached the mayor, he laughed at us for the first time, later when I called a demonstration in Nagykőrös - which, by the way, had not been the case since 1956 - we met such outraged people, so large a crowd - we joined forces with civilians and started collecting signatures in order to repay the channel money. I have delivered 2500 signatures to the Minister now, and with respect, Minister, I would like to ask you to answer when the people of Nagykőrös can get back the channel money that their own Fidesz mayor spent without their permission. When do people get their money back I think it's wrongfully taken? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-18-130	Thank you. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-04-18-131	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, Thank you for your question, since it gives me the opportunity to clarify several cases and give me the opportunity to say several things. First of all, let me begin by personally going to Nagykőrös to discuss the situation with the mayor, and the case revealed that many settlements in Hungary are having similar problems. They received a basic subsidy from the Hungarian government, taxpayers and the European Union to invest in waste water. This was also decided by the municipality, and after that they received an additional grant, thanks to the decision of the Hungarian government and as a result of the lobby of the local mayor, which brought success that the municipality's project, the sewerage investment, could subsequently receive additional support. There are about two dozen such municipalities in Hungary, where the body of representatives has used this money to develop the settlement and to dissect the streets that had been tossed before, according to the decision of the general assembly of the water utility company. So what we're talking about is that the extra money wasn't distributed to the property owners, but the streets were refurbished. So the money was legally used, not stolen, not used for other purposes, but for the benefit of the settlement and the village. [[16.20]] The subject of a debate between the European Union and the Hungarian Government is whether or not the money spent on road asphalting can be part of the investment. First of all, I would like to say that we would like to settle the same type of case for all municipalities. I would like to underline that there has been no violation of the law, because at the end of last year, in the middle of the year, the Ministry of the Interior brought in legislation to settle the situation. This investment took place four years earlier. I would also like to say that the investment was made with the authorisation of the citizens of Nagykőrös, because the general assembly of the water utility company voted in favour, and Nagykőrös's body of representatives voted in favour, and several criminal reports clarified the responsibility of the mayor and the body of representatives. Thank you for your speech, because it also gives me the opportunity to congratulate Mayor Szabolcs Czira, who has been the best mayor of Nagykőrös for a long time, and I can only ask you to support his activities as a city builder and city builder. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to commend Mr. Nagykőrös and Mayor Czira. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-132	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2017-04-18-133	Thank you very much. Minister, everyone is predestined by their roles on something, you are predestined to protect the mundér and defend Szabolcs Czira today. But what I have seen at this demonstration is that the people of Nagykőrös are very upset, and the 2,500 signatures I have brought prove that the people of Nagykőrös disagree with you and Szabolcs Czira's spending of money. So, Minister - this is a political issue, and I would like to represent the population locally, because I have come here because I have several voters of different colours, including your voters - I would like to win the government's support on a policy-free issue in order to get the money back to the people of Nagykőrös. Since I have the opportunity to speak in Parliament, I will, of course, stand up for them. So I ask you, Minister, if you see an opportunity, and if so, when you want this amount to be paid back. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-18-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Minister János Lázár is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2017-04-18-135	When Mayor Szabolcs Czira informed me of the situation, he also brought me together with the majority of the local body of representatives, and I was able to advise the Mayor and the majority of the body of representatives that, despite the public utility investment, these funds should be paid to the property owners. So the fact is that the municipality of Nagykőrös will repay or pay the property owners concerned HUF 558 million. Even then, I would add that, if I understand this correctly, the end of this will be that, unlike other Hungarian governments and settlements, the citizens of Nagykőrös received 85 percent support for the investment first, then 15 percent support, which means that the waste water investment in Nagykőrös did not cost anyone a penny, and they also received 558 million HUF asphalting. Compared to this, in my city in 1998 all households had to pay 50 thousand forints at the time without EU and state support to cover them with sewage. This is the difference between the good fortune of the Nagykőrös and the payment of the Hódmezővásárhely. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. János Volner is handing over a package to János Lázár.]]
u2017-04-18-136	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Wind and Erzsébet Schmuck, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: When does the government start to deal with reality? It's an address. Prime Minister János Lázár appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the response or asks the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2017-04-18-137	Thank you, Mr. President, we'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2017-04-18-138	Thank you. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél, representative of LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What else does the government think of instead of a referendum?" It's an address. Prime Minister János Lázár appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the response or asks the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2017-04-18-139	Thank you, we'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2017-04-18-140	The Prime Minister will also have to answer in this case at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What about schools? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[István Ikotity: Yes.]] Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. You have the floor.
u2017-04-18-141	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, László Palkovics, State Secretary for Education at a forum in Szombathely, which I spoke about today, made very important announcements on education policy. I've been working on narrowing the high school seats in my interpellation, and I asked him about it, although I didn't get a real answer. Another very serious issue is the fate of small settlement schools. This is not a new fear, because Fidesz-KDNP has come up with the concept of education centres years ago, which was about closing schools in smaller settlements and, above all, secondary schools and moving children to schools in cities or larger settlements. Last December we addressed the subject in a separate speech. Based on data from the public education information system, 150 kindergartens, 100 primary schools, more than 40 high schools and secondary schools, 25 cultural centers and more than 30 art institutions and several libraries have been discontinued since 2010. Now it seems very much that the Fidesz-KDNP Cabinet not only continues the school closure practice of the MSZP-SZDSZ governments, but also strengthens the process, because László Palkovics said that no less than HUF 10 billion will be spent on school buses for children from small settlements, so they will take the children to larger settlements. Villages and villages can remain without schools, or at least without upper schools. The LMP strongly protests against such plans. Small-scale schools should not be closed but strengthened, because the fate of schools is not just a question of education policy. When a village, a community loses their schools, there's nothing left to keep the young people there. The existence of schools in settlements is a key issue. Secretary of State, what exactly are you up to?
u2017-04-18-142	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-04-18-143	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Once again, honourable Member, you were not talking about reducing the number of high school seats, Mr Palkovics was talking about having a minimum level of quality that needs to be hit by everyone who gets into high school. On the other issue, as regards rural schools, I would like to remind you once again that this government, the Fidesz-KDNP administration, has not closed but reopened small schools in rural areas, precisely because we believe that the existence of a school is necessary in these small settlements as well. Obviously, we were able to provide additional support for this when it was necessary. What can be read from the statistics you have flashed in the past, and from what you have been trying to say here, though it is difficult to do with such an elusive number: in many cases, it is obvious that when the locality is not the school operator, but the school district center, then the district center will be the one working or the vocational training center with which these institutions apply. But if you go to the addresses that you just flashed and knock on the door, you'll find students and teachers there, because these institutions continue to operate there, so the number of assignments has not decreased. However, they may now belong to a district centre or a vocational training centre. The number of institutions may be less legally, but there is also education everywhere, there is no distance from school, education from residents. Looks like you're already against school buses. While we are spending about seven times as much money on the same EFOP project - you have only withheld this in your speech - on the infrastructure development of schools, and, of course, we are also trying to make it easier for everyone who lives in difficult conditions and can't drive their parents to school, even by bus to school, I believe that everyone is happy about this, besides LMP. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-144	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2017-04-18-145	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, we are not pleased that the educational institutions are being removed from the small settlements, nor are we pleased that if they do not take them and stay there, they will be centralised and the upper classes will be removed, or they will be temporarily integrated into other institutions. As he began his previous speech, I remembered on the famous slogan that there would be no gas price increase. Well, the numbers don't support what you're saying. The 664 institutions that have been centralised from 2010 to April 2016 - and the last year is not even in it - are terribly large. I will ask you a question because I am curious - and I hope you will answer these questions one by one - what has happened to these institutions, so that you will have the opportunity to pour clear water into this. Secretary of State, please answer me if there will be upper-level detentions, because I think this is the key. When upper classes are closed, small settlements are practically strangled. I'm asking you to answer that. [[16.30]]
u2017-04-18-146	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-04-18-147	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Congressman wasn't here at the end of the interpellets when we were talking about the drugstores, and I listed if he had been here. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: We've been watching.]] - but I'm glad you've been paying attention - that in 500 settlements, exactly because of the government's express support of 700 million forints, the pharmacy remained. And in many small settlements, it is precisely because of the government's express support that the schools where few children go remain. The amendment of the law, which makes it mandatory for 8 people to start preschools and later to start school classes, is a guarantee for everyone that these schools will remain. And from then on, it's the parents' decision to take their children here or there. The Hungarian State guarantees these opportunities in the Finance Act, the Public Education Act. Don't fall into the liberal trap of telling people inside the Grand Boulevard exactly how to organize their own lives. We need to be able to do that. We have done so with the bill that you do not support - which keeps the mandatory classes very low - and with the provision of additional budgetary resources. With this, we have done what we can, and the rest will be the decision of children and families. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-18-148	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Miklós Simon, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. The European Union's Border Protection Plan has already failed? It's an address. Minister Károly Kontra has appointed Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[On Dr. Simon Miklós' signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-18-149	Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, It has been a long time since the migration of illegal migrants towards Europe and our country. However, it is clear that the European Union is unable to deal with the situation or at least to contain it at some level. It took a series of terrorist attacks and other atrocities to try to take some meaningful or at least meaningful measures to curb the multitude of economic migrants who have flowed illegally to Europe. One part of this was the agreement with Turkey, which seems to be completely dissolved today, and the systematic border control recently introduced under pressure from the European Union. The point of the latter is that each citizen who travels or travels out of the Schengen area must be recorded by the authorities in the Schengen system. It didn't take much time to see that this system will not work in practice the way bureaucrats in Brussels imagined it as a first step. Already on the first day of the entry into force of the systematic border control, huge lines have emerged at the external borders of the Schengen zone, which, with the arrival of the summer tourist season, will grow even longer, and this may sometimes mean a waiting period of 4-6 hours. I ask the Honourable Secretary of State what experience there is in Hungary on the implementation of systematic border control. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-18-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra.
u2017-04-18-151	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The systematic border control was introduced in the Member States by a directly applicable Union Regulation, with the entry into force of 7 April 2017. On 18 March 2017, the European Parliament and the Council published an EU/2017/458 in the Official Journal of the European Union. Regulation No 1 of the European Parliament and of the Council, which provides for the systematic control of persons with Union law on free movement in databases in the direction of entry and exit of the Schengen external borders. This Regulation shall apply directly and obligatory in the Member States without transposition after its entry into force. The situation with regard to the introduction of systematic border control has evolved according to professional expectations: border crossing points cannot withstand such pressure not only in Hungary, but also in the countries of south-eastern Europe. As a result, the implementation of systematic border controls between Italy and Croatia has already been suspended. According to our information, the airport program in London had a waiting time of about 2.5 hours during the holidays, while in Ferihegy it took a significantly shorter time. At the same time, it is difficult for Hungary, the Hungarian people, to accept this. In Hungary, although an increased number of passport managers carried out the checks, we also made use of the possibility of suspending systematic border controls in the Croatian and Serbian context. During peak traffic, we switched to random checks, which took place four times on the Croatian border, four times on the Serbian border. The Head of Mission of the National Police Headquarters National Coordination Centre has notified the Member States' National Coordination Centres, the European Commission and Frontex of the suspension of systematic monitoring. In addition, during the holiday period, we tried to reduce the waiting time by means of work organisation; border control officers didn't do the checks sitting in the booths, but did their work between waiting cars. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-18-152	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2017-04-18-153	Dear Secretary of State, The possibility of a waiting period of 4-6 hours refers to the past in Hungarian people. Due to the huge lines, Croatia has already suspended the measure a few days after the introduction and is only carrying out random checks. In order to give Hungary a maximum waiting time of 2-3 hours, thanks to the Hungarian police forces, whose experience and presence helped to avoid major complications. Therefore, I would like to express my thanks to all the border officers and border guards. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-18-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2017-04-18-155	Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Ministry of Interior and the National Police Headquarters are constantly monitoring the experience of systematic border control. I would like to inform you and the Honourable Parliament that, on this basis, the Ministry of the Interior will propose to the Government the suspension of systematic border control during the summer period. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-18-156	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Hiller, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question. Who does lex CEU use you for? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[For signal:]] Congressman, Mr Vice-President has indicated his acceptance of the response. You have the floor.
u2017-04-18-157	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear Secretary of State, Clearly, the case of lex CEU will not be closed by your adoption of this law, and the President of the Republic has signed it. Far beyond our borders, he had a serious echo. Here, in your argument, a very remarkable and fundamental element appeared, and I am not referring to politicians, who, by the way, have been fooled internationally by the CEU case. Oxford, Stanford, Yale, Harvard, Georgetown University, Massachusetts University of Technology, Technical University Munich, Freie Universität Berlin, University of California Berkeley, and 15 Nobel laureates, 1100 professors, 640 head of department, president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, former President of the Republic, one of the most prestigious Hungarian lawyers, Professor László Sólyom, President of the Republic. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to help us understand how we are succeeding, how it is possible that hundreds of professors and scientists listed here in front of Parliament and the public of the country are deceived by the World of Learning, the encyclopedia of the learned world. [[16.40]] Please tell me who and how you deceived them. I'm really asking you to answer that question, and if you can, don't worry about the pharmacy right now. Please try to make this clear. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-18-158	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-18-159	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think that pharmacists are an important question, too, if someone asks me to answer, and if someone asks me about lex CEU, then allow me to express my position about lex CEU. This term "lex CEU" is known from a letter to one of your predecessors, written by György Soros. You know this letter, as it was published a few weeks ago by György Soros to Bálint Magyar, and it was with sincere satisfaction that the university he founded won accreditation after a decade and a half, and I know that this could not have happened without your help - I mean, the help of Bálint Magyar -. As President of the Council of Maintainers, writes or continues his lines, George Soros asks Bálint Magyar for a legislative request regarding the new Higher Education Act, which already lists CEU as a Hungarian university - otherwise listed by the Central European University - and lists the 2004 LXI among the laws that expire. Law lex CEU. That's what George Soros calls it, but I think you know this letter. We would like lex CEU to remain in force at the same time as the new Higher Education Act, even if this creates some redundancy, as it does not conflict with the principles of the new Higher Education Act. All we ask is that lex CEU should not be listed in the repealed laws. Here, György Soros describes in a very friendly, fraternizing tone one or two reasons why Bálint Magyar asks for this, and indicates that a colleague of his will also be in the process of doing so with Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány. Honourable Congressman, You were the successor of Hungarian Bálint, if I remember correctly, in this chair as Minister of Education. You write who the lex CEU is using for. This was the lex CEU, which George Soros called lex CEU. I am really interested in the world of deceived or enlightened people, that if George Soros had written such a letter to you, you would have literally rewritten it precisely in the Hungarian legislation, which George Soros asked you to do, or would not have done what Bálint Magyar, who fully complied with it, would have done. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-160	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. I give the floor to Congressman István Hiller in return.
u2017-04-18-161	While we are still holding formal parliamentary democracy, the opposition is asking questions and the government is answering, Mr. Secretary of State. Consequently, I am happy to answer you, because I already long for you to be in opposition with your fellows, and we will answer your questions. But for a short time, until that is not the case, it is your dog's duty to answer me. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew: That's right!]] Bálint Magyar is not a professor, rector of any of the institutions listed, Harvard, Freie Universität Berlin, and consequently I did not receive an answer, and therefore I cannot believe that you believe in this. This is a political action, nothing, but it has nothing to do with Hungarian higher education, nothing to do with the Hungarian Higher Education Act. It would have been fairer and braver to stand up and say that you don't want this university. I'd like to point out that we've submitted a proposal to withdraw this university. I'd like to ask you to tell me in a minute. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Law!]] If this law is revoked. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-18-162	Thank you very much. You have a rejoinder, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-04-18-163	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I see it was an unpleasant question for you to ask whether you would have done the same. [[Deterioration in the benches of MSZP. Dr. István Józsa: You're wrong! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Answer the question once! The president's ringing the bell.]] and probably because you would have put the request of George Soros into the Hungarian legal system in the same way. I thought you were going to give me a different, elegant, diplomatic answer to that question, but apparently you didn't. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Is the opposition responding? Bence, don't be silly.]] Honourable Congressman, This question has indeed become a political issue, but I think it was primarily the decision of George Soros' university. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You won't have time to answer!]] because you know how many opportunities the university, the American university that doesn't work in America, would have in Hungary to legitimize its operation, whether by training in America, working with another American university, taking these courses to the Central European University, by the Secretary of State Palkovics [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Give him a minute to respond.]] he concluded a licensing agreement or anything else, but he didn't choose this course of law enforcement, he chose to make a political issue out of it, and the opposition parties, the MSZP and Jobbik, were partners in this hand. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-164	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The what? Moore in the benches of MSZP.]] Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Interior an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás as a response to an urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer. However, I would ask my fellow Members to listen to our fellow Members. [[On the sign of György Szilágyi:]] You have the floor. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The answer was outrageous!]]
u2017-04-18-165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Since the re-regulation of chimney sweeps in 2015, there have been many problems, and the people, the chimney sweepers who worked in this area, that it is a very bad regulation, since it has been proven that it leaves many loopholes and that the regulation is really wrong. The safe operation of combustion products is primarily in the interest of operators, since inadequate smoke disposal can lead to terrible tragedies, whether it be chimney fire or carbon monoxide leaks. Stacks in inadequate technical condition may have an adverse effect on air quality in addition to the immediate danger of life, especially in urbanised areas. The chimney sweep service is free for the population, but for non-resident customers this service is not free, which is understandable. The question is, what kind of business is this and whose business it is. According to the law, chimney sweeping services are entitled to be carried out by entities which comply with the statutory conditions, inter alia, to register in the register of chimney sweeping service providers managed by the fire protection authority. The register currently includes 33 organisations, and the registered organisations do not include the National Kémény Verifying Services Ltd., who, despite not being registered among the registered service providers, performs the activities of chimney sweeping services to non-residential customers in a demonstrable manner. The employees of the company, if they do not have to pay, carry out the activity on behalf of the state, if they have to pay, and if they do it on behalf of an Kft. They will end up and bill you in your name. I ask the Secretary of State if he is aware that employees of disaster management work in their own pockets in this strictly regulated, state-centralized market using state resources during working hours. In your view, is it acceptable to practice that when no payment is made, the activity is carried out on behalf of the State when it is to be paid, and it is to be carried out on behalf of the State. They're billing me for him, and the same man is a kft. Are you doing this in your name? [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] What do you intend to do to eliminate the suspected abuse? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-18-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-18-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We agree that the task is to ensure that the combustion discharge chimneys operate as safely as possible, and that the combustion product can leave all the properties where it is heated properly. Disaster protection provides the retail chimney sweeping service in a large part of the country, and only retail services can be provided by OKF professionals during the period when they are carrying out a series of work there. Therefore, they must not carry out any other activity, engage in activities for other companies, issue invoices on behalf of other companies in their working time. If there is such a case, we expect it to be announced, because the OKF will be divorced from those employees, but they do not have the possibility to do activities for other companies in their working hours. Anyone who carries out chimney sweeping services within the framework of disaster management will do so in the name of disaster management, and will do all the work and work ordered for the public, which must otherwise be provided. Where there is no service provider, a public service provider may be designated, but it still performs this service on behalf of the National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-168	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2017-04-18-169	Mr. Secretary. We have evidence, documents that show that on the same day, at the same place, the same person, at the same time when the free service had to be performed, acted on behalf of the Deputy Director of the chimney sweeping company BM OKF Economic Supply Centre, when it had to be paid at the same place, and at the same time the National Kémény Control Service Ltd. He issued the bill in his name, one of those kfts. In his name, who is not registered, he could not legally carry out such an activity. [[16.50]] The last time we saw something like this was in the existing socialism, when the public companies were using their tools, working hours, paid by the state, the workers were on the run. It's the same thing right now, and you don't care about that. I'll give you these documents. I am curious to know if you are taking action with this company, how you can do your business, when you are not legally allowed to do it, and whether this activity, when you have to pay, when the state has revenue, is being taken out to an Kft. or put in their own pockets. If you think that's acceptable, let's really go back to socialism. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] what you would like, a one-party system. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-18-170	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-04-18-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, So once again, I would like to point out that disaster management employees can only do their work as employees of disaster management and only properly, they cannot act on behalf of other companies, and they cannot do such activities on behalf of other companies. If you have such a document, we will, of course, investigate this and will carry out the necessary procedure against the persons concerned by the OKF. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-172	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, József Attila Móring, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of National Development an immediate question:, How will the Home Gay Program continue in 2017? It's an address. Minister Zsolt Szabó has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-18-173	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In the autumn of 2014, the government launched its energy efficiency programme, which has enabled energy modernisation of more than 120 thousand households by tender, with a grant of nearly HUF 23 billion. In recent years, seven programmes have been successfully completed and we have met the expectations that we have set ourselves in relation to the programme at the time. It was an important objective to achieve at least 10 percent energy savings in households by replacing outdated household appliances, in line with the reduction in overhead costs. This, on the one hand, has a positive impact on socially dependent people by reducing daily spending, and on the other, the government encourages the public to use energy-saving lifestyles and modern household appliances by emphasising environmental aspects, and supports more efficient energy use. Dear Secretary of State, We have heard from the news that in the near future a new publication will be published in the program "Home Gay" and it will be possible to apply again for the replacement of washing machine and refrigerator, and for the replacement of gas boilers and gas convectors in the entire territory of the country as widely as possible as possible in the context of the modernisation of heating. With this, after the complex renovation of residential buildings, it is now possible to upgrade life- and accident-threatening heating systems and related chimneys. With the economic strengthening of the country in recent years and this year, we will finally have the opportunity to modernise households more widely, and also to further reduce spending, to which the government will have the full support of the Christian Democratic People's Party. That is why I ask the honourable Secretary of State: what calls for proposals are expected, in what amount and under what conditions will the programme be announced? Based on the experience of the past period, how does the "Home Gay" programme contribute to reducing costs? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-174	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary Zsolt Szabó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-18-175	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government's primary objective has been to help the Hungarian families strengthen their economy, both in the past and in the future. This was the family tax system we introduced, the tax reduction, the home creation programme and the employment programmes. One such program is the heat of the home itself, which, as you mentioned, was successfully used between 2014 and 16 by some 120 thousand households and families. With more than HUF 22 billion, we supported the intention of saving energy for families, and we would also like to contribute about HUF 5.6 billion in 2017 to this process. In particular, we have launched a tender for the heating-up of family houses and condominiums. This was published on 9 March, with a budget of HUF 3.5 billion. The aim is to replace or install boilers, modern boilers, or to renovate chimneys with heating systems that help to save energy for families. The aid intensity is 40 per cent and a maximum of 700 thousand forints per applicant. The other big item that's being written now is the replacement of household appliances. This is either a refrigerator or a washing machine with a frame of about 600 million forints. We've had this kind of competition before, you can get 25-40 thousand forints to replace these machines or require support. The deadline for submission of the tender will be 6 June at 8 a.m. and 7 August will be open for this tender. I'd like to continue with the rejoinder. Thank you.
u2017-04-18-176	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Móring for a reply.
u2017-04-18-177	Thank you very much. Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. I trust that, as the government has recognised the additional needs and broadened the Home Gay Program, the programme will help those in need for many years in proportion to its economic performance. As I mentioned earlier, the programme is fully supported by the KDNP fraction, and I very much hope that these are measures that will also receive support from my fellow opposition Members. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-18-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-04-18-179	As a whole, we are launching a gas-convector exchange programme on the market. It is new because it will be 60 percent aid intensity, and with a framework of 1.5 billion HUF, we would like to support the replacement of outdated and hazardous gas convectors that are not at the same time cost. Most important, who used the program in the previous period, was able to save between 20 and 180 thousand forints per family per year, depending on what needs he tried to meet or achieve in terms of energy savings. We are constantly examining the needs of the population that arrive at us. We are looking at the possibility of moving on and preparing for the following programs. I want everyone to be able to submit a successful and good tender. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-180	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question:. What was Viktor Orbán dissatisfied with? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-04-18-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, If I didn't think it was crazy, I'd start worrying about Paks II. It's because it's starting to look like the baby's lost among all the midwives. At the end of my immediate question last week, Viktor Orbán pushed him about so that there will be no referendum, but the country will receive a Paks minister. This is amazing in itself, because it says a lot about Fidesz that you ask whether a referendum will be issued, and they say that it will not be, but that the project will be given a minister. Anyway, today was the candidate's hearing, and he said something. He told me that this is Paks II. investment is a model project and that the Russian-Hungarian interest is that everything is fine here. This is a common interest for Russia and Hungary, which is why he got the position. Of course, we learned from this that Vladimir Putin had indicated his wishes to Viktor Orbán, and the Prime Minister immediately complied with this. But now it's a little more interesting what we don't know about what's going on here. I think that the whole country was a little surprised when Viktor Orbán said that there would be a minister, that would be my question. I would like to know from you what professional arguments have been put forward for the appointment of the new minister. The reason I'm asking you this is because we thought you were responsible for this project. Did you make a mistake, Minister, that you took this project away from him, or what exactly happened here in the background, which we cannot decipher, either from the opposition or from the public? I would also like to point out that they do not do reorganisations when everything is okay with a project, but when there is chaos or a decrease or weakening of social support. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]] I take the Prime Minister's comment that he has acknowledged about the fact that he is unable to keep this Paks expansion going. I would like to learn from you exactly what happened in the government before the appointment, what was other than Vladimir Putin's ukaza, that you can justify that in a country where there is no Ministry of Health, Minister of Health, Minister of Education, Minister of Labour, there is nothing like that, and the expansion of Paks must put a minister there.
u2017-04-18-182	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Mr. Secretary.
u2017-04-18-183	Thank you very much for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, it is my fellow Members' right and even their duty to be informed as legislators about the activities of the executive power, and, as Prime Minister has informed you, I can only complement it: the investment in Paks is divided into several stages. Among these stages, our work between autumn 2013 and March 2017 was crucial when we had to carry out two major activities. On the basis of the government's decision, we had to prepare two agreements and implementation agreements with Russia, the Russian Federation, to maintain the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant; and the other great work we had to do was to go through the five investigations of the European Union and obtain the approval, support and permissions of the European Union to carry out the investment. [[17.00]] With the two approval of the Parliament and the approval of the European Commission in five cases, we have managed to prepare the programme. The investment has passed the preparatory phase, so the investment is now entering the stage of implementation. By November this year, we will have to hand over 222 hectares of land to the contractor in order to maintain the capacity of the nuclear power plant. The Prime Minister decided to ask a new minister in the government structure, János Süli, who was 76 percent elected Mayor of Paks City against Fidesz, and 35 years of work at the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, and finally, before becoming Mayor of Paks, CEO of the Nuclear Power Plant. His professional skills, knowledge and reliability, I believe, are beyond doubt. He made a very good decision on industrial policy and policy. The reason why we need a Paks minister is that he oversees the investment, who basically executes the implementation as project manager, because a 12 billion-dollar investment, which increases GDP by 1 percent, gives 10 thousand people a job, and guarantees Hungary cheap electricity for 60 years, requires priority government coordination and attention. This is the motivation of the decision, which I believe is an excellent decision. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-184	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return. Here you go.
u2017-04-18-185	Well, if I'm looking at your answer from here, then that means there's been insufficient government coordination and attention, but obviously you'll be discussing it with the Prime Minister. You said that the implementation is about to begin. Then what have you been doing? What did they spend the 250 billion forints that were squandered over three years to invest in Paks? I would also like to know that this means that the Minister of Paks will now touch the credit? So does that mean you're gonna call off the loan now? Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry, but we haven't been able to clear our responsibilities here. So does this mean that you're going to withdraw from this project and you're going to be fully responsible, so we're going to ask Mr. Süli, future minister? How will Attila Aszódi appear at the project, what will happen to the leaders of the individual Paks project companies, so how will the division of responsibility look to you? In the end, what I would like to know from you is: do you really think that the appointment of a new minister will solve the problem of building a completely unnecessary nuclear power plant without any authority or real questioning the people, the 10,000 jobs of which you have not yet been able to present any impact assessment in the world?
u2017-04-18-186	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Mr. Secretary, please.
u2017-04-18-187	Dear Congresswoman, You asked me a lot of questions beyond my abilities, so I can only answer them in parts, but I promise you, next time, I'll replace it. The first question regarding the election of the candidate and the evaluation of my work is obviously the Prime Minister realized that the mayors will be the best ministers [[Dr. István Józsa: For example, Lazarus! Defiance.]] That's why he asked János Süli, Mayor of Paks, to become a member of the government. My second point is that the Minister is also one of the most respected nuclear energy specialists in Hungary, and he is a practical city leader, a citizen of the region, able to coordinate the interests of local governments, social groups, people by building a nuclear power plant, and he is able to prepare for planning, implementation and deployment. Our goal is to be a state-owned nuclear power plant based on Paks I's human capacity and knowledge. And yes, the financing of the investment will also be managed by the budget, with a tranche of EUR 100 million starting with the payment of the preparatory work so far. I think that Minister will do an excellent job and that Parliament will be constantly at the disposal of Parliament in the spirit of ministerial responsibility. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-188	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Demeter, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:, How will the support of civil society organisations develop in 2017? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[On the sign of Zoltán Demeter:]] Yes, Congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-18-189	Dear Secretary of State, On the part of the opposition and the groups close to the opposition, it is often critical that the government treats civil society organisations in a step-by-step manner. [[Dr. István Józsa: Part of it!]] I am convinced that this misunderstanding or deliberate deception can be caused by two things. On the one hand, there are politically motivated organisations, primarily those who receive the necessary resources for their activity from abroad, and, of course, they are the loudest, and even try to identify civil society organisations with themselves and acquire the name. In my opinion, these so-called NGOs are very damaging to the perception of the civil sector. For this reason, it was also time to create transparency on the support of civil society organisations abroad. Secondly, the opposition tends to narrow down the scope of aid to civilians to resources from the National Cooperation Fund. I would add that the NRA successor fund already manages nearly HUF 5.5 billion in 2017. [[Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs takes the seat of a gullible Dezső in the notary seat.]] In 2011, we stated in the new law of association that the voluntary cooperation of people is essential for the development of Hungary, civil society organisations are the basic units of society, which continuously contribute to the day-to-day achievement of our common values. The exercise of freedom of association and the creation of the operational foundations of civil society organisations are socially beneficial and the recognition of their community-creating activities in the public interest and the promotion of their public benefit is our fundamental task. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State how the support of civil society organisations will be developed in 2017.
u2017-04-18-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-18-191	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We are talking about real civil society organisations, which represent at least 99.9 percent of the organisations registered as Hungarian civil society organisations, fortunately, and in their case the government is interested in increased support and increased partnership. In 2010 the support of the entire civil sector was 144 billion forints both on a normative basis and on a tender basis and on the receipt of public services, which increased to HUF 202 billion by 2015, i.e. from 144 billion to 202 billion, a very large increase, and, fortunately, the non-state subsidies also increased in the field of civil society organisations. The National Cooperation Fund, as you said, Member, will rise from 2016 to 17 HUF 5.3 billion. Here, two types of applications have already been announced by the council or colleges, one by the operational tender and the other by the programme applications, and each one by trying to bring these decisions to the attention of the stakeholders as soon as possible, in order to be able to prepare and implement programmes, especially during the summer break, and to complete them throughout the year. So we have tried to improve the situation both in administration and in costs, both with billions of dollars in growth and with the introduction of electronic administration. In 2016, last year we were able to support 5719 NEA organizations. This means that those who apply regularly can win in many cases if they come up with good programs or if they have a real operation. In addition to the NEA, civil society organisations receive 1 percent of personal income tax, and we can talk about an increase here too. In the past, we have been able to make more money for 24 834 organisations, and now for 25 567 organisations, with the help of the budget, by offering citizens; but I would like to continue from here.
u2017-04-18-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go. [[17.10]]
u2017-04-18-193	Thank you. Mr State Secretary, it was good to hear that since 2011, the amount of support for civil society organisations has increased almost year after year, and of course it was also good to hear how many of these opportunities have been used by civil society organisations. It was also nice to hear that other opportunities and resources are available to civil society organisations beyond the NEA, helping to make our immediate environment more beautiful or even help our fallen countrymen, as a whole Hungary becomes a more livable place, as civil society organisations carry out community tasks and pursue goals. I am pleased that my constituency has more of these functioning, effective NGOs than Kazincbarcika, Sajószentpéter and Edeleny. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-04-18-195	Thank you very much. I'll pick up where I left off. The value of the 1 percent offers increased by 6.5 percent in one year, which means that today, on average, one beneficiary receives 330,000 forints from the 1 percent offerings. We see these campaigns, so it seems that there is indeed a positive effect, and we were able to give the civil society organisations HUF 8.4 billion as additional support for this legislative opportunity as a community of Hungarian taxpayers. Simplifying procedures was an important legislative amendment, we could speed up and simplify change registration procedures and keep them in a more efficient procedural framework. It was also important that, through the application of the civil information centres, county centres were set up, where a civil society organisation, who is as much of a flesh and blood civilian as the others, is active as a civil society organisation, receiving state aid to provide information days, advice, assistance in accounting and administration, so that other organisations could receive this background support and focus more on the real civil community, cultural, sports and other purposes. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-18-196	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 5:11 p.m., and we've reached the end of the immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, We now have a motion to negotiate a series of requests for inclusion. The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the amendment of Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code (T/14185) in order to protect public funds. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First I give the floor to the author, within a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman Gábor Staudt.
u2017-04-18-197	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, There is an important proposal before the Parliament, and it is waiting for us to put it first in a series of subjects and then decide about it and accept it. Of course, as with everything else, an amendment can be submitted to this. What we cannot accept, however, is that the issue that we want to address - and now we want to deal with the amendment and tightening of the Btk. - does not require the adoption of any legislative act that acts by the legislator, or of any more restrictive act that amends the Btk. What's this about? It is possible to argue how much money has been stolen from this country after the change of regime - and we will remain here only after the change of regime for the time being. Foreign organizations, which not only investigate the volume of money stolen in the offshore direction in Hungary but also worldwide, make it two-and-a-half-fold compared to the total Hungarian government debt, so that the political elite managed to steal such an amount - the elite, of course, in quotes - from Hungary since the late 1980s. If that is the case, and you can say that this is not three times the total Hungarian government debt, but two times the total Hungarian government debt, not 250 billion dollars, but only 200 dollars, probably the real figures are even higher, but I must say that we can talk about the numbers that are so horrific even on the basis of the most careful estimates that require an active change in the laws or the behaviour of the prosecution. We can say that if the laws are good, the prosecutor's office is not doing its job well, but if the prosecutor's office is doing its job well, then the laws, the Hungarian laws have been practically unfit for decades to prevent public money from being stolen. The two of them can't be true. Because if the D.A.'s office is doing well and the laws are good, then that amount shouldn't have gone away. These money's gone. Of course, it can be said, and if someone argues that we should not look at the prosecution's fingernails or tighten the facts, they can say as a result that there is no theft in Hungary, there is no disappearing of these money, in which case it may also be possible to order a mental examination of the person who is serious about this. But to get to the point, what this proposal contains. We would like to see the disappearance of public funds in Btk., corruption, but even the fact that there is an increase in administrative abuse and sloppy treatment, a more serious punishment, so that we can make sure that, once in a while, a lot of billions of people go to jail, no matter how long. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre sneezes.]] My fellow Member Csaba Gyüre is right, indeed, we have not seen this in the past, now almost 30 years. And if you would say that we would, in an incredible way, like to raise these facts disproportionately, I would like to take one or two examples, the proposal would be more detailed. In the event of the adoption of a bribe, two to eight years of imprisonment would be envisaged. This is the maximum security, this is the state of the art, not the current one. Then, in the event of a failure to file a complaint, if an official does not file a complaint, although he obtains assurance of a criminal offence for which he should do so, a sentence of between 1 and 5 years, and a sentence of between 1 and 5 years in the event of a misuse of office. So who says that these values are incredibly high, and so raised, I think he doesn't really think that the person who touches public money should be accounted for here, but I might as well say the facts of the sloppy treatment, for which it is very important that if someone is charged with the management of foreign assets and doesn't do so properly, then the increased item would be punishable by imprisonment from zero to three years. I think that this is not an item that could cause any snoring in this House to happen. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the inclusion of this series of things in this proposal in order to see a prison sentence every now and then, and then to accept it together. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-18-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A representative from each group of representatives can now speak within a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak, also within a two-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy, Fidesz Group.
u2017-04-18-199	Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, The reasons for the bill include a sentence that I would like to read to you literally:. Theft of public funds is also a serious crime within the current criminal law framework. It is clear that the justification then supports why it should be further tightened up in the opinion of the authors. However, let us state that this is a serious crime, which is also a serious crime under the 2012 Criminal Code. What could lead to the goals that my fellow Member has spoken about, so that more such judgments can be made, more such proceedings? Everyone who deals with the criminal problem of corruption knows that the biggest problem is the balance of interests between the active and passive subject of corruption. This balance of interest, this unit of interest, must be broken in any event, so don't be interested in the briber and the bribed in concealing their crime. There is a criminal solution to this, and there is also a Btk. a solution like this. It may not be a perfect solution, but by no means tightening up penalties is the only good solution, but, as I said, the possibility of exploration must be created, the possibility of exposing corruption. And here is the importance of the new law on criminal proceedings before this House, in which the use of concealed instruments, in essence, the use of secret observations, can be crucial for the detection of corruption crimes. I would therefore rather ask the Jobbik Group to support the new law on criminal proceedings, so that we can fight corruption as effectively as possible, but in this form we do not support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[17.20]]
u2017-04-18-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am asking if any of my fellow Members would like to speak on this agenda. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi in a two-minute time frame.
u2017-04-18-201	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At least we agree with Congressman Répássy that this is a serious crime. This is indeed a serious crime. I do not understand why you cannot support at all, let us say, the government, if you think it is important to protect public finances - they say that the fight against corruption is important, although this is not very visible in the course of their actions, since corruption has been institutionalised and centralised. Nevertheless, why could they not support a more serious punishment for those who carry out acts of misdemeanor or corruption? Congressman Répássy, you quoted the general justification for the bill submitted. Then I would quote what you said. He said that tightening up wasn't the only good solution. But then you also think that one of the good steps could be tightening up. Then I don't understand why you don't support him. We agree it's not the only one. For example, a lot of other things would have to be able to work more effectively against corruption, such as an independent prosecutor's office; not a Fidesz Péter Polt would have to run the DA's office, who is trying to look at matters politically according to whether or not he is involved in a Fidesz politician. And if he's involved, they're not investigating this case. Unfortunately, over the past few years, a Fidesz politician has been involved in all matters, so there are hardly any cases that would go through. But if it's not the only one, but it's a good one, why can't they support it? I just don't get it. They're always excuses. Now you're telling us to support something else that you're submitting. But it would also be easier: tell me, say, you don't want to accept it because Jobbik submitted this bill. Then it would be a cleaner thing. But that you are constantly talking about the fight against corruption, while this is the most corrupt government this country has ever had in the past 27 years, as your government has, and, moreover, the efforts to submit any proposal, they do not support it, and they cannot justify it, I think that is outrageous. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-04-18-202	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Mr Gábor Staudt, as rapporteur, if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] I give you the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2017-04-18-203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I expected a bigger debate, I confess. This is also a question that all factions should have responded to. So most importantly, I can only respond to Róbert Répássy and to my colleague Szilágyi, but I obviously agree with him on what he said. You know, my fellow Member, breaking the conflict of interest is most likely to happen if we tighten up these facts, and in the event that someone is caught or the crime is brought to the attention of the investigating authorities by other means, it is indeed a matter of serious sanctions that the law is looking forward to, more serious than it is now. And when it comes to the prosecution's accountability, the D.A.'s office is asking why they don't do anything, you say they don't have to, the laws are good. When it comes to changing the law, they say the D.A.'s office is doing its job - while the money flows out. This isn't right. We'd expect you to come forward with your own if you don't like these proposals. They won't do that, but we're leaving the corruption pacts. It also shows - and by the way, in the rankings and rankings - that the direction is very bad. And unfortunately, the new law on criminal proceedings will not change that, despite the fact that there are a lot of correct and supportive passages in it, I can agree with that. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State: it is often the case that these people get caught, even in court - instead of many times I say what has already been done, so I will clarify - and they will still receive ridiculous penalties, a suspended sentence, which is virtually nonsense, ridiculous. It is not possible to change this with the new criminal proceedings, but to put these people in prison, there is also a need to tighten up the criminal charges. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-04-18-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's report on the amendment of Law I of 2004 on sport follows a debate. Government referral T/14682. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr János Fónagy, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] Before I give the floor, I would like to inform the Secretary of State that there is a total time frame of 10 minutes for speaking in the debate and presenting a possible closing phrase. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-04-18-205	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The sole purpose of the bill we are discussing is for the National Assembly to appoint the Ferencváros Gymnastics Club as the trustee of the real estate associated with the reconstruction of Népliget. The list of state-owned sports property listed in Annex 1 to Law No I of 2004 on sport does not change in any other way with the adoption of the bill, neither in the list nor in the public domain. No amendments were tabled to the bill. It was discussed by the Committee on Culture, but the intention to make amendments was not adopted, and the Commission's amendment closing the in-depth debate was not adopted. Thank you for the committee's work. With all due respect, I ask you that T/14682. Please support bill number 1. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári, applause, a round of applause.]]
u2017-04-18-206	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that 9 minutes are available to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, The Committee on Culture did not present a rapporteur. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate, as we are negotiating on a time-frame. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group.
u2017-04-18-207	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. By the way, I'm sorry that there's no one here from the Fidesz who cares about sports. By the way, the Secretary of State said that there were no amendments to this proposal. In principle, they couldn't arrive, because nothing else is going to happen than you are now submitting an amendment to Annex 1: the construction SE sports site, as it is, will be handed over to Ferencváros for asset management, and from now on, we Members will not know anything about what the intention is, and we cannot know any description or background of the whole matter. There are so many that we should really vote for, that Ferencváros gets the Builders' Sports Camp, which is a very valuable area within the Népliget, by the way. I'm saying we can only speculate, speculate what the intention is. During the general debate, the Secretary of State had a statement that gave us at least a little information, as he said that they would want to make an investment of about HUF 10 billion in this area. Ferencváros will do this again, I suppose, through state aid. This is something that we can hold on to at some level to decide, because we say that if I consider that Népliget is a supply base and perhaps the conditions for the supply will be better, then one could even say that this is an eligible thing. If, on the other hand, I consider how much sport investment has been made in this country in the last six years and now they want to invest another 10 billion in sport, then it is no longer certain that this is so eligible. I mean, I'm saying that spending money on sports, if we really spend it on sports, and that's what was said here in the general debate, is worth 3 forints with 1 forint of crab, so it would be acceptable, but the problem with us is that what goes to the vote, say, for sports, doesn't always go to sports. A certain part of it is placed in certain pockets, and from the other part, yachts or hunting castles are purchased, and only a certain part of it goes to sports. So these 3 forints are no longer adequate. Therefore, since we do not have sufficient information, apart from the fact that, as I mention, this sports establishment is being transferred to Ferencváros for asset management, because we do not have any information about the government's plans, or I do not know if this is the government's plan at all, because I imagine this to be the way that sports management, the sports lobby in Hungary, is in general today, so that the Fidesz potentates are sitting at the head of all major sports associations, the Fidesz people who go in, say, to someone, and they say that we want to do this, and then they will allow them to make money for this investment. [[17 .30]] Since we do not know anything about this, I believe that as Members of Parliament, who have sworn to serve among us, we are protecting public money and we are rationally trying to use the resources that we have at our disposal to the benefit of the country, and we have so much information that we are responsible for not deciding on this issue. Therefore, Jobbik Movement for Hungary cannot support this bill, this change, this transfer, the transfer of trust rights to Ferencváros in this form. We will abstain, because I say we have no information, very little information about the intention, all we know for now is that they want to transfer an area to Ferencváros, but this Jobbik Hungary Movement cannot support it in this form. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-18-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if there is anyone else who would like to speak on this agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I will ask Mr. Secretary of State János Fónagy if he wishes to close. Secretary of State says he doesn't want to make a closing statement. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the transfer of certain state-owned properties to the Reformed Church in Hungary and the discussion of the summary amendment follow. The government referral T/14241. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-04-18-209	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 13 April 2017, the members held a debate on the T/14241. About bill No. 1. The board of the house rules 46. It submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 27 votes in favour, 7 votes against and no abstentions. The draft amending proposal contains the Commission's proposal to close a detailed debate on the Judicial Committee, which contains clarification of language suitability and codification, as well as the legislative committee's own amendment aimed at bringing legislative consistency with the law on national assets. The purpose of the bill is to ensure that the Tisza Castle in Gegest becomes the property of the Reformed Church of Hungary without being paid for, on the one hand, a memorial place, and, on the other hand, an educational centre and meeting center for the Reformed Churches and believers in the Carpathian Basin. Ladies and gentlemen, Please give your consent to create the conditions that the two-thirds grant in Parliament is T/14241. It should be possible for it to be adopted with regard to bill No 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Nándor Csepreghy, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. Yes, I will give the floor to the Secretary of State and indicate that you have a 10-minute window for your speech and the closing word. You have the floor.
u2017-04-18-211	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the floor. Allow me, on behalf of the Government, to thank the parliamentary parties for the constructive debate they have shown on this matter. I think that, seeing the consensus that has been reached in the context of this proposal, I can rightly say that a significant majority of the parliamentary parties consider it important that the situation of the Tisza Castle in Gestez is also arranged as a symbolic gesture, transferring it to the property of the Hungarian Reformed Church. Basically, we are talking about the residence of a family that lies in a very backward area of the country, and by creating an educational centre created by the Reformed Church in the Tisza Castle, there is the possibility of creating a centre in the direction of future border opening, towards Partium, which can indeed be an outstanding bastion of spiritual and ecclesiastical education. The history of the Tisza family, as it was said in the opening debate in a very broad way, was very closely linked with the Reformed Church and the public service performance for Hungary, so the government thinks that it is symbolic that in the year 500 of the Reformation this property could be transferred to the Hungarian Reformed Church. And since I see that the majority of Parliament can be created for this, let me thank all the parties and Members involved in the debate for their very constructive attitude and, above all, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-212	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. The speeches will now take place within the time frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Member István Ikotity, LMP Group.
u2017-04-18-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, With regard to the speed of the five-party conciliation, Mr Secretary of State did not say what I had come to, when I first went to the wrong room, with a delay of about one minute, everyone stood up from the table - the debate was so constructive, there was not even an opportunity to comment. I would like to take this opportunity once again, because we are in a summation debate to draw attention to why this proposal is terribly wrong. What is, by the way, the purpose of this proposal is to give the Reformed Church a property, there is no problem with that. There's nothing wrong with "Maybe Other" in Politics to get churches to do their religious activities, even real estate. The problem, the biggest problem with this is the lack of norm. You, Mr. Secretary of State, have thought of one thing and give a castle to the Reformed Church. As we have said in the last few weeks, in the other debates, why this is problematic, that then other churches will appear with different needs, as we have already seen the symbol of it, since we have a proposal again this week, and also different transfers of property, in the same order of magnitude, so other churches will also receive certain assets. Okay, all right, we understand the purpose of this, that you're handing over real estate, but what's the reason? What is the reason why churches are being asked to do so on the basis of ideas, spontaneous ideas, or even requests? We see that in the next round the Catholic Church, a religious order, the Israelite community, has already entered, and this line will obviously continue. The problem is, if another church shows up, and he says it's gonna happen again next week, the week after that, every week, there's a real estate transfer? Couldn't this be done in a normative way, couldn't it be done by looking at it, whether it's Parliament, how it's possible? If there is such a need, why do I have to do it every week? By the way, the procedure itself points very well to the fact that this is not good for the free functioning of churches. This will be a problem for the churches in the medium and long term, since accepting such gifts now - because we do not avoid them, these are gifts to churches, the acceptance of such gifts - will give the government at all times in the future - not necessarily to you, the government at all - an opportunity to take advantage of it. What they're handing out now can be taken back later, which the churches might interpret as looting. [[17.40]] So now they're handing over something that they might resent when they take it back. We think that this should not be done, that it is not good for the churches. I ask all parties, all Members, to consider whether this is the way to do it. Obviously, this is a two-thirds law, it is an icebreaking law, because from now on additional opportunities are open by amending the State Property Act. At this moment, what is about to happen tomorrow, according to preliminary indications, this will give any government in the future the opportunity to hand over to any church or civil society, any national wealth that is not sufficiently substantiated as to whether this is justified. I would be happy to see that as many people as possible notice and see between the lines that there are shortcomings among the churches that have been given. So, for example, the Evangelical Church, who would be most attached to the year of Reformation, since Martin Luther's famous act is linked to the beginning of the Reformation by October 31, why doesn't the Evangelical Church get property, why does the smaller church get property, smaller churches get real estate? Could they have been critical of the government? Thank you for the floor.
u2017-04-18-214	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, Jobbik Group.
u2017-04-18-215	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As the Secretary of State has just mentioned, indeed, the Group of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will support this initiative, and we are very happy to do so because we believe that this is indeed a worthy gesture to maintain and nurture the memory of István Tisza. And if I may, for a sentence, respond to my fellow Member Ikotity, I think that the reason why this castle is not being given to any church is because we are talking about the Reformed Church, and, yes, we are celebrating the 500th anniversary of the Reformation this year. So I think that this is also a generous gesture to Protestant churches on the part of the government, and István Clean himself was the head caretaker of the Reformed Church, and obviously it is unhistoric to say so, but if he were alive, perhaps he would support this bill, because he himself was a generous donor to his church in his life. So I think that in this respect we have no doubt that the property itself will be in the right place, the task that the church will receive along with this property is also a very important and noble goal. I hope that it will be able to fulfil its role as much as possible, and this centre, cultural, educational and religious center, which will be established later. What we raised during the debate, and what I mentioned to others, is that I think that a gesture should also be made in relation to the Tisza family. The castle of Nagykovács was also received by the Scouts with great pleasure, and they are doing extremely rich and colorful programs there for the children, but unfortunately there is no possibility for the family. Perhaps here, if this property is to be renewed now thanks to the castle program, then perhaps there would be an opportunity to offer homecoming members of the family such a solution - we know that a very large part of them are working and living in America, South America and North America - so when they return to Hungary, they will be able to see this castle as their home again. And the other is that, if I have already brought up the memory of István Tisza - and this is not closely linked to this bill, but I think it is important to mention this here and now - then perhaps it should be considered that not far from this House, the national church, in the field of Martyrs, there once was a huge obelisk, which contained the names of the victims of red terror, the Red Commun, along with a Hungaria female figure, and on this list was also the name of István Tisza. The 100th anniversary of 1919 will soon come, we know that countless events and international events will be held in Hungary this year. I think that it would be a very important, indicative step on the part of the government, on the part of the Hungarian Parliament, on the part of the Members of Parliament, if they adopted a proposal for a resolution that, by the way, this column, this obelisk, should also be in its former place in order to restore the image of the square. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-18-216	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Before I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, I would like to inform the Secretary of State that, according to the relevant provision of the house rules, I can speak only in the framework of the closing. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-18-217	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Trianon peace dictate was not only unfair and illegal, but it also led European politics to a dead end for the next decades and Hungary itself. The fact that he has taken him to a dead end is no more proof than that the Geszt settlement itself is located in Eastern Hungary, which has fallen into a dead end, with the current borders of Hungary. The settlement where the family mansion of Kálmán Tisza and István Tisza was found, where János Arany taught the Tisza family where the Golden culture developed. This cultural center, which used to be a light, has completely vanished as a result of the dead end. We want to eliminate this waste now, and thank you very much for the support of Jobbik, because Jobbik has supported Fidesz-KDNP, so that the Reformed Synod can indeed receive this building and we will be able to rebuild this culture. It is also extremely important in that respect, ladies and gentlemen, this question, because it could not have happened, I am convinced, the Trianon dictatorship, if it had not been for the murder of István Tisza, would not have taken place, and the fate of our country would have been completely different. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate; he has 9 minutes.
u2017-04-18-219	Thank you very much. Mr President, Allow me, in the absence of Congressman Ikotity, to offer you a parliamentary walk in which you can get to know your own workplace, because other parties did not have a problem at the five-party conciliation and to find the location of the conciliation where you really arrived late, and it took a short time to meet because, in the previous debates, essentially, a consensual position was reached. I would be happy to give this to the Member free of charge or at my own expense, if he so requests. The other question that Mr Ikotity raised is why the government does not decide on a normative basis and calls for Parliament's support for such a proposal. This is quite simple, because as many cases are on the agenda and as many of these transfers may be on the agenda, we think that it should always be considered independently. The current Hungarian government has never questioned the role of historical churches in Hungarian public works and education, and we do believe that in this case, as in other ecclesiastical educational institutions, public tasks are performed, where the transfer of this type of public property can take place under the authority of the Hungarian Parliament. [[17.50]] In this case, I think that, on the one hand, the 500th anniversary of the Reformation, and, on the other hand, as the Congresswoman said, the drive for the memory of the Tisza family is all a reason to make this proposal timely. I will look into the further proposals and see what options there are. Indeed, the 19th century anniversary and the anniversary of the First World War justify the government's reflection on the formal framework within which it can give its worthy commemoration. This is therefore a proposal that, I think, must be put on the agenda. Allow me, on behalf of the Government of Hungary, to thank you once again for your support, and to ask that tomorrow, as far as possible, Members who have listened to the debate and have so far been in the opposite position, vote in favour of a proposal that is a very forward-looking initiative on the form of cooperation between the education system and the state and the church as set out in the Fundamental Law. Mr President, thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-220	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's report on the amendment of certain domestic laws and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/14680. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-04-18-221	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Honourable Parliament that on 13 April 2017 the Legislative Committee discussed the T/14680, which was held by T/14680. The Commission submitted a bill amending certain domestic laws and submitted a draft amendment and a summary report with 29 votes in favour, 8 votes against and no abstentions. The summary amendment includes the amendments proposed by the Defence and Police Committee, which are mainly linguistic and stylistic text corrections, which have been supported by our committee, as well as the legislative committee's own amendment proposal. Thus, in the event that the power of delegation is not adopted due to its fundamental nature, it is necessary to maintain the existing rules on the statistical reporting to the European Commission of the Counter-Terrorism, Information and Crime Analysis Centre, and to this end there are minor amendments to the summarised amendment proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill facilitates the transposition of practical experience into the Hungarian legal order and provides for a uniform and consistent practice of application of the law, so please support T/14680. Bill No. 1. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-04-18-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion will now be presented within a 7-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2017-04-18-223	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, There is indeed a minority opinion. Practically the arguments raised in the debate of the Legislative Committee were also raised, as in our amendment proposal, which the commission refused to support, and one of its fellow State Secretarys-General tried to answer. I note that you gave a rather surprising response at the committee meeting, which, of course, we could not accept. We have argued that, if there is already a possibility, simply to provoke certain persons with a public function, it would probably be justified not only to apply this to people with low positions, but also to extend it to those with the highest levels of public administration. As a minority opinion, I have said and maintain that, in itself, the possibility of being provoked, I do not think it is right. I don't think it's useful, I don't think it's good, I don't think it's necessary to make it part of the justice system. But if you have done so, then I would like to ask - in case Mr Secretary of State can give you a more normal answer than his colleague present - why this cannot be extended to State Secretarys, Ministers or Prosecutors. [[Károly Kontrát: And judges?]] Not on a judge. Prosecutor, Secretary of State and Minister. Because the independent authority, Mr. Minister, since you've asked me so much, is a court of law. The D.A.'s office is not an independent branch of power, the D.A.'s office is an independent state body, but it has never been an independent branch of power. It doesn't belong to the triad that was written back in the day, and it's been holding on for a relatively long time. I do not really understand that we can use such methods, let us say, in relation to the acting police officer, but to the person who supervises the whole criminal proceedings and decides, where appropriate - the prosecutor - it is not applicable. Why not, Mr. Secretary? What is the reason for this? And what is the reason why, if you expect these conditions to be met by the police, you are not expected to comply with that? Why not? Why can't you be brought under this? It's the opinion of your former State Secretary that it's because your superiors would be checked by the police. Well, that's very surprising. And then I ask: when such a problem arises in connection with a general, will only General be able to control it? One general can only provoke the other general, and he can't provoke his own superior? Well, that's not how I read the law, it's how the police's internal response or control system can control even its own superiors. Or is it different, Mr. Secretary? Then what principle can you give me that you and your minister can't be so controlled if everyone else is? We do not think that corruption in Hungary today is basically because the employee in charge is corrupt, do we? No, it's not that! In Hungary we are facing an extensive state corruption called state capture. [[Károly Kontrat: Report, Congressman.]] What should I press charges, Mr. Secretary? Think about it. I'm sorry. What am I gonna press charges against? State Capture? Or against what? I usually talk about it being detected everywhere, every survey and research says that the level of state corruption in Hungary is incredibly high, not because of the subordinates, but because of the corruption of state leaders. Because of Lőrinc Mészáros, because of István Garancsi, because of István Tiborcz and because of Viktor Orbán; because of you, Mr. State Secretary, and not because of the underling officer. How does a government come to provoke the little police, but not their superiors, the secretary of state and the minister? ! Or the D.A. Did Péter Polt negotiate with you so you couldn't do that? Or why? It's quite simply an outrageous attitude, Mr. Secretary of State. There is nothing to suggest that these people are the main problem of corruption in Hungary, but government corruption. You don't think, Mr. Secretary, that we should finish the investigation there, do you? I hope you don't think so, and I hope the D.A. doesn't think in the Voldemort case that a Fidesz congressman was playing tricks on money. Because those applications were evaluated by someone in the Ministry, and it was probably not the last employee, but a secretary of state or the minister who decided where to go. There's a good chance he signed it. [[18.00]] Compared to this, again, I say that corruption is intended to be captured or grabbed by the challenge of low-ranking officials again. God forbid something like this could put you at a disadvantage. Mr. Secretary. What's the answer in principle? If you'll excuse me, I can't give you an answer. If you would also like to state why our amending proposal, which is aimed at this, is not supported. Because what your fellow State Secretary said isn't just an explanation, it's a lot more outrageous than I originally thought. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-04-18-224	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, if he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate, or at a later stage. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Of course, he's not answering now.]] Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I ask my fellow Members who would like to take advantage of this opportunity. I give the floor to Congressman Miklós Simon, Fidesz Group.
u2017-04-18-225	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! Since the last amendment of the standards covered by this bill, changes have occurred in the regulatory environment and appropriate legislative adjustments are necessary. The law makes the activities of law enforcement and law enforcement bodies more effective and clarifies national law enforcement bodies in order to ensure more effective and effective international cooperation with the counterparts of EU Member States. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] In order to integrate practical experience, inter alia, the law on police, national security services and non-compliance will be amended. The Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association Group supports the bill submitted by the Minister of Interior, thus transposing practical experience into the Hungarian legal order and establishing a uniform and consistent practice of law enforcement. I ask you to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-18-226	Thank you very much, Congressman. I salute my fellow Members. There is no two-minute application, I give the floor to Congressman Dezső, MSZP.
u2017-04-18-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This legislation is an interesting thing, because if you read the title of the bill, you can also draw a lot of conclusions from it. For example, if I'm reading a law title to amend some domestic laws in this case, then it's clear that this is obviously some kind of salad law. Am I right? When I read this title, I suspected that this was the case, too, if I counted correctly, that 21 laws would be amended by a law. Obviously, this could be a question of trying to replace or correct the shortcomings that had fallen out in the application of previous laws. By the way, this is linked to the fact that, obviously, it follows that the laws previously adopted were adopted in a hasty and unprepared manner. We've talked about it a million times, more time to prepare for them to be okay, and then there won't be a need to amend 21 laws in a law, if I've been able to count well in this case. Obviously, this does not strengthen confidence in the legislator on the part of citizens. Think about how a normal citizen can track this. How can you monitor this, anyway, when legislation works by adopting 200 pages of legislation per day? Not only citizens, lawyers can't follow this in a normal way. I wouldn't call that normal legislation. In this case, it is necessary to choose which of the 21 legislative amendments should I deal with, since 21 cannot obviously be dealt with; I would like something similar to that of my fellow Member, Barándy. The law deals with, on the one hand, with the extension of the number of persons involved in the reliability investigation. This is done by the National Defence Service, the Hungarian Secret Service. The other one tries to extend the scope of the provocations in various cases, which are the cases in which they can be used. At the committee meeting, during its discussion, the present Secretary of State Felkai considered this practice useful, effective, good. It is important that he mentioned this, and I would end up explaining why I think it is important for us to talk about it. Let's look at the first part, the expansion of the staff of those involved in the reliability test. Obviously, this is linked to the increasing complexity of matters relating to public administration, the increasing number of decisions being made and the need to monitor them in some way. As I mentioned earlier, this task is carried out by the National Defence Service. When I read this, I said that this could still be the right decision, a correct proposal. I was thinking that the circle of people to be enlarged is obviously about where decisions are made, because there is a possibility of corruption in the first place, where big money is decided. Then I was surprised to read that this shifted to the level of implementation, extended to simple administrators, civil servants. For example, a public servant is a person working in the burial grounds or a teacher or a kindergarten teacher. I don't think we should be dealing with this, it's not a solution to the real problem. If enlargement had been carried out by real decision-makers to whom this extension would have been extended, I would have said that we would have been on the right path. And that's exactly what we're proposing. State Secretarys, Ministers, various Commissioners, right, there is a Commissioner of the Government, Minister, they are the ones who are present in making the various decisions, and experience shows that this would have been the circle to which this should have been extended. Regarding the provocableness, which his fellow State Secretary considered effective and useful: in this connection, I would note that I think I am the only person in the Hungarian Parliament who could have been a part of such a series of events. I've been tapped and provoked. I don't know how Mr. Secretary of State lived through this, I've lived through this, and I know exactly what that means. That's what I'd say. What this bill is about now gives the provocators the opportunity to provoke me in the event of violations. Are you serious? Such a provocator, by the way, is either a police officer or a person in the secret service, his deployment is not in proportion to the weight of a criminal offence, and that includes that. I think it's ridiculous. And some thoughts about practice, too, because unfortunately, my time is limited. So the practice will be that a police officer who for 5 thousand forints will overlook an interruption and expose him with this provocative solution, I think. However, I do not see that those who decide on serious billions, I know a two billion-dollar story here, Mr Congressman, sitting across from me, I believe that he is not present now, we hear about him every day. He's also a government commissioner, apart from being a Member of Parliament, and we don't even hear about the procedure that the D.A. did anything. Couldn't that be applied there? The little policeman, the administrator? Keeping them quiet every day, inciting provocators on them, and at the same time, the field is open to the large crowds and the squints. I don't think it's right. Returning to the use of the provocators, the National Defence Service carries out this task in conjunction with the D.A.'s office, mostly with a trained police officer from the National Police Headquarters. The current practice, based on my own example, is beyond the fact that quite a lot of data has been encrypted, but what I have learned about it is perfectly suited to be used for political purposes. [[18.10]] Unfortunately, in my case, the National Defense Service used it. Their own investigation found that I did not commit lawlessness, and it was not that they stopped, but that they decided to organize a crime themselves and try to provoke me. Their current system, which has been developed, is capable of being used for political purposes and is therefore unfit to be recorded in law. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-18-228	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. I will ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP.
u2017-04-18-229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There's not much time left, but I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary, I have to say that I have to call you a coward, and I do. Once again, I call you a coward because you have been unable to speak on this matter in such a way that Members may still have the opportunity to react. He does it all the time. If, by the way, you are not qualified to take part in the debate, then resign, but it is not normal that you refuse to participate in the debate, to participate, to argue, but always wait for the closing and then say something. Mr. Secretary, that's not fair. This is not a parliamentary debate. If something is a desecration of the parliamentary debate, then this is it. Besides, I think that Fidesz should not have given the floor to a Member who has not been prosecuted because the Parliament did not issue it. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-18-230	Thank you very much. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-18-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I remember the autumn and winter of 2010, when Parliament discussed the bill on the National Defence Service. I also remember well that as part of that, we proposed a system of reliability testing, and then this was completely rejected by the MSZP faction, the Members who spoke. That is what I wanted to say, because they have demonstrated that they do not want to participate, do not want to contribute to the fight against corruption. And the other, in reply to Congressman Bárándy, do you call me a coward? [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Yes!]] Well, you're out of the general debate, you weren't involved. If the fight against corruption had been important to you, it would have been important for us to be able to adopt a better law, then they would have been involved in the debate. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Do you remember the reason? Do you remember the reason?]] They would have argued. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Do you remember the reason?]] They would have argued for their proposals, they would have spoken for them... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It's the only way I can answer.]] Mr. President, give me the opportunity.
u2017-04-18-232	Go on, Mr. Secretary. [[Noise. It's ringing.]]
u2017-04-18-233	Congressman, who thinks you're a Democrat, but doesn't give me the chance to tell you that you can't listen, Congressman... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I'm trying to answer, you know? There's no other way. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I hope that your passion can control and listen to... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I don't have a temper.]]
u2017-04-18-234	Congressman Bárándy, please listen with patience, and then there will be an opportunity.
u2017-04-18-235	I'm so patient, Congressman. [[Dezső gullible: You should have taken part in the debate! Nándor Gúr: You should have spoken in the debate! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2017-04-18-236	Go on, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-04-18-237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I took part in the debate. [[Nándor Gúr: See!]] I would also like to refer to the five-party consultation, when your representative at the Ministry of Interior said with a smile that they would not vote for whatever we were doing, they would not vote for this bill. In a Pharisee way, you have agreed to read these accusations on my head, Congressman, so you would have taken part in the debate on this important bill, but you have not been involved, Congressman. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: We wrote down the amendment!]] They didn't participate. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] they didn't participate... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It's customary to use a modification!]]
u2017-04-18-238	Go on, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-04-18-239	They withdrew from the meeting and did not take part in the debate. I'd like to ask you how brave that is, Congressman. What kind of courage is that? What kind of courage is that? ! [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: There's the amendment!]] What kind of courage is that? [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: There's the amendment, vote for it!]] Nothing! Congressman, it's a kind of social courage, that's the thing. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Vote it, it is better than yours!]] And the other is that you declare that there is government corruption. Congressman, you have a legal obligation under the Act on the Status of Representatives, if you declare this de facto, to file a complaint. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Look at how many charges there are.]] what he knows about government corruption. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Congressman, stop bluffing and press charges. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Should I list it? Dr. Csaba Gyüre: The D.A. will investigate. Dr. Gergely Bárándy, Attorney General Fidesz?]] make use of the rights of its representatives. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell. Intervention from the lines of the MSZP: We should have spoken in the debate!]] Dear Parliament, As regards the system of reliability investigation and the legal definitions or regulations relating to the National Defence Service, I would like to say that, after the adoption of that law, the European Union or the Strasbourg Court did not make any critical comments on this system. And what you said at the TAB meeting, Secretary of State Felkai, in relation to what you are criticizing, I would like to ask you that the position expressed by Secretary of State Felkai is perfectly true, because of the conditions that arise in order to carry out the investigation and its implementation, Minister Felkai has rightly highlighted and formulated the position of the government in relation to it. I would like to say that in the general debate, the bill was fully supported, and the speakers of the political groups who spoke gave their support to the proposal. This proves that the main purpose of this proposal is, by the way, as I said in the general debate, and if the Member had been here without a temper... - because I also respect you in the light of this opinion, which I find completely unfounded and reject, what he said about me, and then the voters decide about us at some point in 2018, I would like to say this. So don't hope that I'll resign, I'll work through the term, and the voters will decide who to vote for. As far as the bill is concerned, Mr President, I would like to say that the proposals that have been submitted and supported mainly contain language correctness clarifications, not substantive wordings or substantive differences. I would like to thank the participants in the debate who supported the proposal, Mr Simon Miklós, Member of Imre Vejkey, who gave the TAB's majority opinion. I am very sorry that the MSZP took such a position that, on the one hand, it already stated that it did not support the law and then did not participate in the general debate, and now it has fallen on us in this second round debate. I don't know what you want. Would you like it to be good regulation? [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Believing Dezső: Accept the amendment!]] Do you want us to be even more effective in combating corruption? Then exercise your right to take part in the general debate, participate in the five-party negotiations, which we regularly hold in the Ministry of Interior before submitting important legislative proposals, before submitting them to the government, and may then be able to argue more calmly in favour of their proposals. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill in the final vote tomorrow. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-18-240	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on certain issues relating to the organisation of working time will follow until closure. Proposal submitted by the Economic Committee T/15035. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Erik Bánki, rapporteur for the Economic Committee, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor.
u2017-04-18-241	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The legislative proposal before you aims to ensure that companies operating in Hungary are able to apply modern production methods more effectively by creating a more flexible working time position and thus easier access to global production processes. In recent years, domestic businesses have announced their problems with the organisation of working time in a number of forums and have expressed their desire to adapt working time arrangements to the production cycles. The regulatory framework has served as a starting point in the practice of neighbouring countries and many EU Member States, which will improve the planning of operations by creating flexible conditions and mitigate potential losses associated with volatile production. [[18.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, Under the current rules of the Labour Code, a working time limit can be set for a maximum of 12 months on the basis of the guidelines of collective agreements. In variable-intensity production units, it has often occurred that the production force was not available in sufficient quantities, or that due to the excessive demand for production, they could not shift the workforce in such a way that production efficiency could have worked well. However, there was also an example where the amount of labour was exaggeration, and there was not enough work to enable workers to be employed in the workplace with an appropriate post. The challenges of low production periods have often been dealt with by businesses with a reduction in stocks and redundancies, so that the redundant workforce has been laid off. The aim of the bill is to make employment more flexible so that the working time limit can be set by employees and employers for a period of 36 months. I stress that the collective will of employees and employers is the only way to ensure that employers can set a working time limit for 36 months instead of the current 12 months. Of course, the time frame remains based on 40 hours per week. The average weekly working time shall not exceed 48 hours in the new system. If the employer does not order all working hours, the unused working hours may be allocated to a later date within the working time limit. In order to prevent workers from being disadvantaged in the context of the establishment of a longer timeframe, the working arrangements contained in the bill can only be applied if agreed by employees' and employers' representatives, i.e. this special agreement is also laid down in the collective agreement. Dear House, The amendments contained in the bill are expected to have a positive impact on labour market movements and to reduce the shortage of skilled workers. As a result of the changes, companies do not have to dismiss labour even if a lower-intensity period is to follow. Wages and working time management will become more predictable in the long term, thereby reducing potential losses. Ensuring the continuous employment of workers and, of course, the obligation to set up agreements on a longer working time frame in collective agreements clearly serves the interests of workers, which is why the bill provides for this, without this amendment it does not allow for the introduction of a new regulation. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal therefore aims not to increase working time but to extend the period within which working time can be allocated. The bill, extending the current 12-month period, allows for a longer working time frame for the hours used and unused to be set up in a maximum three-year cycle. Ladies and gentlemen, Everyone, please, the T/1503 in front of you. I would like to ask you, if you feel that this needs to be amended at any point, to be improved by amendments by your representatives. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-242	Thank you very much, Congressman Bánki. I ask whether you wish to speak on behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Cseresnyés. I give you the floor; you have a 30-minute time frame.
u2017-04-18-243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, When Hungary's Government elected in 2010, it set out that the proportion of employees in the population should increase significantly, that the Hungarian labour market should be among the most flexible in Europe, and that businesses should be able to employ as many workers as possible and create new jobs. Experience with the effective functioning of the Code rules and practical application is constantly being examined by the government with the involvement of employees and employers. As has been said in the expozee, this proposal also aims to address existing problems and signals. In the case of the application of the working time limit, employers may have the possibility of an unequal schedule of working time within a specified period and at the same time of a partial pooling of rest periods. The use of unequal working time arrangements is regulated by detailed rules, which employers must comply with when applying the working time limit. In accordance with the rules in force, the working time limit is limited to four months, for certain working schedules six months, and can be set up by collective agreement for a maximum of one year. The signals of recent years, as has been said, show that this time limit is not adapted to longer production cycles, which, for example, characterize modern production of products. At present, workers may not be available to perform a task in an appropriate number of hours during variable-intensity operations and employers may not be able to provide them with enough work during a downward period. Businesses with a fluctuating production cycle can now adapt or adapt to the situation by quitting, quitting, and hoping to re-employ a sufficient number of skilled workers in more work-intensive periods. This proposal provides for a long-term balanced working environment for both parties. This amendment to the Labour Code serves to organise a longer-term working order, which is flexible to production. The proposed rule allows for the establishment of a working time limit for hours used and unused within 36 months of working time, as has been said in the Expoze, which has already been used in countless Western European countries. The proposal therefore does not aim to increase the volume of work. In the longer working time frame, guaranteeing employers' obligations for the protection of workers have been included in the proposal by the authors. Such obligations, as has been said, should not exceed 48 hours per week in the average of 12 months, including exceptional work. There may also be additional guarantees and obligations, which I will list. The employer's obligation to provide information so far, which relates to the starting and closing date of the framework, is added to the fact that the amount of working time to be completed in the working time frame should also be communicated to the employee. A further guarantee is that, in order to ensure healthy and safe work, the proposal also strengthens the provisions on rest periods for longer working hours. A further obligation is that the proposal also provides for a regular monthly wage for the employee when the longer framework is applied, so that, over the whole period, he is constantly paid, on the basis of the general working schedule, when he does not work out all his working hours and when his employer orders him more than the specified hours of work. For him, the extra wage for overwork only takes extra working hours, other than the post, which will be paid in the month in question, together with other allowances. Ladies and gentlemen, However, the most important element of the proposal is what I would like to stress that the option outlined above will only become a rule if employers and workers agree on this. The longer working time limit only provides for a derogation from the general rules on the organisation of working time in the case of collective agreements on this basis, so that the law only makes the longer working time framework available to undertakings where the social partners regulate working conditions by collective agreement. In the regulation of flexible employment, it is up to the government to establish a framework for work and to ensure the guarantee interests of workers, but the further development of the regulation should allow for agreement between the parties, to increase opportunities for individual and collective autonomy, i.e. to strengthen the regulatory role of the parties' agreements. In Hungary, the role of collective agreements is relatively limited, so the government strongly supports the proposals on incentive arrangements. Ladies and gentlemen, In the context of the proposal, this proposal provides a more flexible solution in terms of positive economic processes and labour market needs in the area of working time management, which also takes account of workers' interests. The proposed legislation will extend the rules for shaping the working order, but this will be done by referring it to the responsibility of the parties directly concerned. [[18.30]] They ensure that, in addition to flexible working time arrangements, employees and employees' organisations of interest are given very important guarantees to ensure compliance with the Labour Code and employers' and workers' agreements. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-244	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I wonder if anyone from the Fidesz Group would like to speak. [[Erik Bánki says he doesn't want to say anything.]] Commission President Erik Bánki indicates that he has made his point on behalf of the committee. Then I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, notary, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-04-18-245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State says it's an opportunity. He says that this option is based on the mutual will of employers and workers within the framework of collective agreements, coupled with its agreement. Secretary of State, you don't really believe what you're saying, do you? You know that employers and workers are different factors in the labour market, don't you? Employers and employees, if we measure each other in particular and the organisations that represent them, are more vulnerable to the other. It is the workers who belong to the more vulnerable category and the circle of representatives of them. You do remember 2011, the Code of Work in force in 2012? Where there was also a mockery of the collective agreement, where I mention to you as an example that if it is not in your mind, you should not have to look into it, that, for example, the existence of a collective agreement within the framework of the majority state-owned companies could not be more positively different from the fund, from the labour code itself. What is the collective agreement about? The collective agreement is about making the positive movements of the Bible, the code of work, that is to say, placed in a quotation mark. The collective agreement is essentially a repository of workers' interests. But I do not want to dwell here on the code of work, which was established in 2011 and adopted in 12 which increased vulnerability, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are at least two important factors in the world of work. At least two, many others, but these are the two main factors. One is flexibility, the other is security. Flexicurity and security. For seven years, you have been opening up, expanding, and on the other side, on the other side, on the safety side, and creating vulnerability instead. I have to say, this isn't right. It's not right, but the only reason it's not right is that if you put a bill between the walls of the House, then it might be worth talking to these actors. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Bánki Erik, President of the Commission, if he would like to say something to you that is the VKF. I'll help you. I will help you if you do not say so, I must say that this is a permanent consultation forum between the competition sector and the government. You know, here in this consultation forum are the actors I was talking about earlier, together with the government, representatives of employers and employees. My first question is obviously whether this draft law has been on the stage of the VKF. Have these ideas been agreed within the framework of the competitive sphere and the government's permanent consultative forum? Not to my knowledge. If it is not, then I could stop thinking here and say that this draft law should be withdrawn, put it within the framework of the VKF first, discuss it with the parties concerned there, because the parties concerned are basically involved in this story, and that if they are beyond that, they should come back and present a bill to the walls of the House. They didn't coordinate with the VKF, they didn't negotiate with the unions. That doesn't tell you anything. In fact, what you really should do is just take it back. Do you remember 2011? I'll recall it again. In 2011, 708 amendments were tabled in line with the Labour Code between the walls of the House. More than 500 of these were submitted by us, representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party. There were many that were initiated by the trade unions, and we thought that, if we agreed, if we did not agree with them - by far and by far the decisive majority - we would still have to submit it, because everything that has to be decided within the walls of the House has to be decided. Do you remember how many of these 708 amendments have been adopted? I don't remember any. They're on the same path right now. They are taking the path that they do not even wish to negotiate with the trade unions or with the political parties on the opposition side, but to formulate dictatorships, despite the proposals or proposals. In the context of a motion by a representative or committee or a motion, it appears that a strong lobbying activity of a multinational undertaking is or will be reflected. May I ask, who do you serve? Do you serve Hungarian workers or do you serve multinationals? But from this consideration, which can be read out of the draft law, there is only one answer: you are not serving Hungarian workers. No, you're multitasking. The following question may come from this: why are they doing all this? God forbid, is there even some kind of interest in the background? I suggest that the laws should be followed first, and then initiated, but also in self-interest - let me give you an example, let's say, settlement bonds; you remember that these processes started with the help of your predecessor, Antal Rogán - but we should build the type of processes that serve the interests of the people. But I see that you have not known this process in seven years, nor do you want to know it in the next year. I don't want to be a picnic, I don't want to be personal, but, you know, when certain data requests - if I've just mentioned the issue of the settlement policy - were not implemented against the Parliament's Economic Commission, the Committee led by you [[Erik Bánki: It's not true! Press and duck!]] This news has come to light; it may be necessary to refine the issue, but that you have failed to fulfil the obligations laid down by a final court decision, which may not be in question. I would not refer to the Magyar Nemzet, I would not refer to others, I would not refer to anyone else, I would just like to say that first on the stage of legislative action those who form the law must comply with the laws, and then, if laws are passed, at least with those who are affected, and if there is a decent place to do so - I would say: VKF, so this is the competitive sphere and the permanent consultation forum of the government - then these issues should be discussed there. But you don't seem to care at all, you don't want anything to discuss with anyone. Let's look at this bill a little more carefully. Within the Code of Labour, Art. § the question of working time, according to my memoirs of 96. § dissecting the work hours. [[18.40]] Today it is possible to set a one-year working time limit for working time. This bill aims to achieve three years, with reference to better coordination of working time and working time. The three years, says the Secretary of State, seem to be important when it comes to the organisation of a work schedule adapted to production. I would like to point out that today's call for a working time limit is still in place so that, on the average of a year, weekly working time, together with extraordinary work, can not exceed 48 hours. And in addition to all of this, in this way of thinking, it is necessary to look at the effectiveness of everything on an annual basis. So what are we really talking about? Or how and how, what interests do you want to serve? The justification for the bill itself is a confession. Yes, a confession in connection with the post-2011 Labour Code, which was in force in 12 years ago, as they refer to the collective agreement, the importance of their agreement, the role of which you yourself limited in 2012. So, yes, it's a confession. I can't even tell you now, because after seven years of realization would mean a very long time. With the process that is suggested through the draft law, the role of trade unions, interest representatives, their activities will be further weakened. But I'm going back to the beginning, and that's just flexibility and security. It is important not only to be strong on the issue of flexibility, but also to strengthen the process in terms of security. But it doesn't seem to matter to you.2012 has hurt the interests of workers and trade unions very hard. 2017: now this draft law strengthens this process and further strengthens the vulnerability of workers. I have to say that, while vulnerability is growing, we can see in virtually a multitude of labour disputes that we can see that there are a lot of cases where working time is on the surface, there are a lot of cases of this concern. However, this is also the way in which the inadequate spending of rest periods appears, often involving a multitude of cases where continuous work over 10-20 days can be achieved. What I want to get out of the whole story is that you can't blow cold and warm with one mouth, you can't talk about family once, you can talk about work, you should create harmony with that. A balance between family and work should be ensured. I'm not going back, and I'm sure you'll remember the matter of the road transport bill, where you could have taken up to 16 out of 24 hours from the people, from the workers, just so that you can, in a sense, replace the labour force that is no longer available, because you refuse to play a role, since you left this country. In terms of working conditions, everything you have brought to life is, on the one hand, to emigration in a sense, and, on the other, I do not want to sharpen the story, but it also leads to the disruption of your peace of work. Yeah, of course, you can't almost do a strike? The law of this strike has been made, which virtually renders the possibility of strikes impossible. But the biggest problem is that you do not involve the social partners in the system of reconciliation. Of course, I could ask you right now whether there is a real reconciliation of interests in Hungary today. So what I would like to say, President Erik Bánki, is that it is not good, if at all, to see that the strong lobbying of a multinational enterprise is returning. There are not only economic interests, especially individual interests, but also employee interests, which are worth taking into account in all respects. And my last summary thought is in line with this bill. If you really believe that there is a need for changes in the type of company where the cyclicality of production may require the possibility of a working time schedule of over one year, here for three years, as you say, then I suggest once again that you consult those involved in this before submitting a draft law to this House. Consult him. [[Erik Bánki: Good, it happened.]] introduce it to the competition sphere and the government's permanent consultative forum, where a great deal of proposals have been made for changes to the draft Labour Code. You've been sweeping them all off the table, and this hasn't even gotten there, and you haven't even been able to discuss it. So it's worth paying attention to. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-04-18-246	Thank you, Congressman, notary. I now give the floor to Mr István Hollik, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-04-18-247	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I would like to say to my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, that if you had been so concerned with the safety of workers, 200,000 jobs would not have been lost during the eight years of your governance. And it's gone. [[Erik Banishes: That's right.]] And if we did something really wrong, we wouldn't have created 700 thousand new jobs between 2010 and 17:00. It's been created. And I think that this fundamentally employment-friendly policy is based on the fact that we believe that a successful economic policy and employment policy can only be based on cooperation. This is what we have done so far if you see, for example, the agreement on the minimum wage or the guaranteed minimum wage, which has been negotiated by the government. That is what you will see here, too, because, honourable Member, there has also been consultation with those involved in this matter. I think you have the wrong interpretation of the law, because you think that this regulation, which would set the working time limit for 36 months, is only good for employers. That's where you started, that's where you started, but that's a wrong starting point. The winners of this regulation are not only employers, but also workers. There have been many cases where production cycles were not in line with the legislation, which is why it was when workers had to be sent. So these workers stopped working - for a short time, indeed, because they were then taken back. This is exactly the impossible situation that this bill-modifying proposal wants to remedy. And once again, we know, unlike you, that a successful employment policy can only be based on cooperation. We therefore cooperate with organisations, employers' organisations and employees' organisations. They were the ones who asked for this legislative amendment, and we submitted it at their request. Let me give you one more argument that this isn't about some skandalum. Where production industry is highly present, this type of working time framework is generally common practice in farms. So, for example, there is a regulation similar to this in Germany, which has a strong automotive industry, where, in my view, this cannot be a debate between us, the automotive trade unions are very strong, and yet this rule has been adopted, for example, because they see the production cycles of the car industry, and they also see the need to adapt the regulation to real life. [[18.50]] Of course, I also agree with Erik Bánki and with the Secretary of State that the appropriate guarantees should be added to this regulation. I think it is an important guarantee that, on the one hand, this proposal does not want to increase the amount of work, so if this proposal comes into force, no one will have to work for one minute more, and it is also very important that employees' and employers' representatives agree on this, so that the 36-month establishment of the working time limit cannot take effect in any of the producing companies. It is also important to add that it is also an important goal that wages should not be reduced during the long working hours period. On the basis of the bill, the employee will receive a salary for the entire period laid down in the collective agreement, based on the general working arrangements, as defined in his employment contract, even when he does not work out all his working hours, it is also important to add this. I think it's also a guarantee element, and it strengthens the security you're complaining about. If the production cycle is such that a person has to work less in the same period, his wages will not decrease, this will also strengthen predictability and security. Therefore, I think that if we look at this bill, we should ask ourselves whether we are fundamentally in favour of the value-creating and productive enterprises that operate in Hungary or intend to operate in Hungary in the future. I think that the last few years have shown that they are really doing value-making work, contributing to Hungarian economic growth, and giving jobs to tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of Hungarians. Therefore, if we are to support these companies and their operation at home, we must also support this bill if it is accompanied by appropriate guarantees. We think they're fidesz, KDNPs, that the right guarantees are associated with this. Since Nándor Gúr asked who we serve, we serve people who have often lost their jobs because of production cycles and lack of consistency of legislation, even for a short time. So basically we serve these Hungarian people, serve the working Hungarian people, and serve Hungary, because we believe that these businesses are contributing to Hungary's growth, helping all Hungarians to get from one to the other, and that Hungary can be a happier, more successful country. On this basis, we can support this legislative amendment proposal, and I ask the other factions to support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-18-248	Thank you, Congressman Hollik. I now give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-04-18-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, let us ask what kind of recipe this bill is based on. It is safe to say that this is based on a sociopathic, neoliberal, market fundamentalist recipe. Then let's ask the question of who wrote this recipe, who formulated it. Let's just say that you, then, are the creators of this bill, and no one has been whispering from the background. At the time, however, it must be said that it is strange for a national government or a government or its representatives who claim to be of national orientation to surprise Hungarian workers with such a proposal, since it is safe to call this proposal, if we want to make comparisons here, a proposal or a proposal in a pen, when you hear the request of the agents of global colonial capital, and as quasi-owners, Hungarian workers are being sold out on the international labour market and, by the way, they sell out Hungarian workers very cheaply on this labour market. That is what we are talking about, but they are being completely eviscerated, and then let us add, my dear fellow Member Hollik, it is safe to say that here the labour camp, the inspectors of the forced labour camp, have willingly written the very strict policy with which Hungarian workers are now to be surprised. It is very easy, however, to refer here to the fact that you are actually protecting Hungarian workers with this. Imagine yourself, yourself, for example, in the position of such an employee. Not imagine yourself in comfortable seats, but, say, in place of a man who, according to the bill, will be forced to work 2496 hours a year, and this working time frame will be extended to a three-year cycle, and you can do so to him then in the second year and in the third year. You refer here to a family-friendly government and to what a catastrophic demographic situation the country is in, which is the case, but the fact is that with such proposals, not only will they not solve it, but they will deepen it even more, they will make it even more serious. By the way, we can agree that collective coverage should increase in Hungary, and I think it would be good for everyone, so it would also be good for the workers, because if we look at the percentages of the number of employees affected by collective agreements in Hungary, we are quite behind the desired Western European goals. It is also said here in the general explanation that tackling the shortage of labour would be one of the reasons why this step should be taken, but here we should also ask why this shortage of labour could develop in Hungary, what governments it was - yes, you had very good teachers, very good neoliberal teachers, who, if appropriate, can now say things from the opposition that we might applaud, because they are undoubtedly right. They should have done so in the last eight years, by the way, when they had the opportunity, and could have prevented all the harmful processes that have now continued and continued under your seven-year government. Now, this question must also be asked, how this shortage of workers could have developed in Hungary, what was the reason why 600 thousand people left from here, at least 600 thousand people, even though László Kövér here doubted that there is no such thing as leaving Hungary because of poor working conditions, let's say, to the West; but, yes, there are, very many and not from an adventure. Then they say that employment should be made more flexible, only that it is a very old and very mean song, because by making the labour market and employment more flexible, or by referring to it, they have been scattered among workers' rights in Hungary. Here's the labor code. [[He's showing it to me.]] Which, in many ways, can be called a slave law. I'm telling you, don't imagine yourself in your own situation, but in the situation of the people, the hardworking and really early young people you refer to so often and so much. Well, this proposal will not do much, nor will it improve anything. It would otherwise lead to precedent steps that would make the situation of Hungarian workers even worse. They talked about Western European examples. In Western Europe, you say it's not unusual, it's not from the devil at all, which is being brought forward here. Then there are some statistics to explain that it would be good to refer to other countries, say Western European countries. I don't know, my fellow Member here has also been exemplary with Germany, let us say that in Germany, there may be a shame that the number of accidents at work will increase by one third between 2012 and 2016. What was the number of reported workplace accidents in Hungary in 2012? 17 025. How much for 2016? 23 027, significant increase. How can we explain this? Among other things, by the fact that the labour inspectorate has been decommissioned so thoroughly that there is no greater destruction to be imagined. [[19.00]] In fact, an average Hungarian worker can run out of his entire working cycle and life cycle without meeting with a labour inspector. It would take 38 years for these labour inspectors to get to all jobs and check everything. It is no coincidence that the number of accidents at work has risen so steeply under such wild capitalist wild eastern circumstances. Then let's look at how we stand in terms of net earnings in terms of average monthly wages. They will say that this has increased significantly in Hungary. Yes, we are now around EUR 600 that is still below the level of the V4 competition states or the competition states in the region. We should measure ourselves to the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Poland in good times, not Bulgaria and Romania, so do not give examples to prevent them. Yeah, we'll beat them to it. Then, to continue to list these numbers, let's say, the Hungarian employee in his early 30s, and, let's say, how many days off a 31-year-old Finnish worker gets, or how many red-letter holidays can he get? Finnish beats the Hungarian employee by 11 days. So, about this, if you're going to bring up such metaphors here, and you're going to set up or point out such contrast pairs, you're going to have to talk about these issues, too, because they have to be discussed. Then let's see how much a typical Hungarian worker works a year, let's say. I would like to quote an OECD survey of 2015 data. The employees of the Dutch State of the OECD are also working the least. This is 1381 hours a year, but it didn't even reach 1400 hours in 2015 with the Germans. Japanese, considered workaholics, work 1746 hours a year. In Hungary, this figure is slightly different, but there it is around 1900 hours, 1888 hours is worked by an average Hungarian worker in one year. And then you are talking about working time, and you are saying that you are actually defending Hungarian workers with this. Please, if you count 48 hours a week on the average of 12 months, that means 2496 hours, and if so, the employer to whom you are authorising will live. It is true that they argue that this can only be done if it is included in the collective agreement rather than in the contract of employment. It would be very nice, very good in an ideal world. Let's just say I believe that in Western Europe it works. The only thing is that we need to look at it, compare, say, the Hungarian trade union sector, its state, its power, let's say, with the Western European examples you refer to here. Although the trade union coverage in France is not greater than in Hungary, so it is moving around 9 percent or even slightly below it, the fact is that French workers are able to stand up for themselves at such a level that if it were to happen in Hungary, you would not have much to thank. But then I could mention a Scandinavian example, where trade union coverage is two-thirds. Yes, in such a country, it is very easy to keep it normal and deal with the questions thus raised in such a way that they really benefit workers and cannot be turned away from their rights and are not harmed by them. And one more thing about productivity and a flexible labour market. Let's say, if you look at GDP figures for 2015, in Hungary 24 thousand dollars per capita. In Germany, Austria, $44 thousand. If we break it down for work hours, it means $33 in Hungary, and about $60 in Germany and Austria. So here you are referring to the flexible labour market - I do not know what would be even more flexible. So it would be more flexible to restore slavery or invent an employee who, say, is light-eating and can be worked 24 hours out of 24 hours a day for free, if possible. That would be the solution. You are here in the general explanation of how many rest days are taking place - and this has also been so triumphantly introduced here, Mr Cseresnyés State Secretary, for Hungarian workers - I would like to read it. The proposal introduces a limit for healthy and safe work and for the protection of workers, so that at least one day of rest per month is allocated to the employer and at least one week's rest day per month is allocated to Sunday. A rest day a month? [[György Szilágyi: Oh! Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Sunday?]] Hungarian workers thank you very much for this one day of rest each month. I don't know how better to eviscerate them than that. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Take that, too.]] So basically, it's a bad thing that you've put in front of us, but I'm telling you, this obviously has its roots, the last eight years, and then the next seven years, and here's the code of work that leaves a lot to be desired. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Erik Bánki, who presented all this and outlined in the expo the bright future that would be waiting for Hungarian workers if we accepted it here - Jobbik's faction cannot accept it. We cannot accept it, because a number of questions have been raised, and I do not want to repeat the suggestions raised by my fellow Member, Mr Gúr, but a number of legitimate questions have been raised here that would affect Hungarian workers by a thousand percent to the very core. We cannot accept it, and we also find it harmful what has been outlined here, that, according to the vision of my fellow Member Hollik, we would strengthen the very damaging trends that look like Hungary is at the bottom of the multinational and global value chains of global large companies. We focus on these jobs. You have to imagine these value chains as some kind of V letter: who is at the beginning and at the end, so in design and sales, it is very good, but who can only pinch the low added-value working phases in the middle, i.e. at the bottom of the V letter, but it is very bad. For those workers, they make up such almost 2500 hours of employment on an annual basis, they make up for those workers to have a 3-year working time, and if, let's say, they are not paid in cash, they are not compensated by the employer, but, let's say, in leisure time, then at some point, according to labour workers, they may only receive this in the seventh year. Well, thank you very much. What does this man tell his family? Will we go on vacation in seven years, my dear children? When you turn 18? Not now, you're young. What should such a Hungarian worker say in the shop anyway? They'll give me the compensation in cash, let me take the merchandise I picked out for myself? This isn't gonna work. By the way, we need education in Hungary, and then we could get out of this vicious circle, which means we're there. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] At the bottom of these global value chains. This leads nowhere but to social disaster, my dear fellow Member. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-18-250	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés.
u2017-04-18-251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just so we're not talking, I'd like to tell you exactly what the bill is about. I would like to say to my fellow Member, Mr Ander, that workers can't go any worse on a three-year basis than the Labour Code currently regulates this. 40 hours a week, 40 hours a week, 3 years a week. At present, this certain accounting period can be extended to a maximum of 12 months, which would be extended to a 36-month framework, but the annual accounting base will continue to be 40 hours per week. No more. It doesn't change anything, 36 months would be the maximum period for which it can be extended. [[19.10]] So workers can't go any worse. And I would also like to say to my fellow Member, Mr Gur, that I trust that employers and workers in Hungary are law-abiding people, and that they will comply with the law; the law which states that this time-frame agreement and opportunity can only be used if the parties agree with each other. Therefore, it is essential to have a representative organisation to agree with the employer in the interests of the workers. If this agreement does not exist, there will be no working hours. Let us trust that employers and employees are law-abiding people in Hungary! I trust this, and that is why I dare say that the possible adoption of this bill will not serve anyone's disadvantage. I would like to reject what Congressman Gúr has said in order for anyone to dance on his whistle or music. He said he was trying to suggest that some multinational companies were moving the hands of the Economic Commission here, and they had this bill written. That is not what is happening, Mr President, because I remember that if we were to start from this point of view, from such a basic position, then I could say that there was a Commission president in the parliamentary term between 2006 and 2010 who led the Labour Committee for Labour in Parliament. And at the time when a large company announced its intention to divorce a large number of employees - two thousand people were involved in Hungary, this was not a small number of employees; it would have done so in its three factories, and it would have affected about 1500-1600 people in one of its factories - then the representatives concerned, the representatives who lived in a given settlement where this company operated its factories, asked you, because you were the chairman of the committee to at least invite the head of this company or someone named by its manager to tell you what they wanted to do to these people after they resigned. You refused to ask the company in a committee meeting about what they wanted, how they wanted to satisfy people with severance payments, what assurance they would give them that if they became unemployed, they could continue their lives. So let's not make accusations and explain something in a bill that isn't in it, and let's stop hurting each other, picking on each other with something that doesn't otherwise come out of this bill. It is simply that a 12-month period would be allowed to extend to 36 months the draft law if the parties, employers and employees' representatives agree on this. If this does not happen as has been the case in Hungary in recent years, employment on a working time basis has not been introduced and the managers of a given company have not been able to take advantage of this opportunity. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-18-252	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, As we have reached the end of the keynote speeches, an independent Member has not applied for a speech, so I will give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, notary, for two minutes.
u2017-04-18-253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Two things very briefly: if the Secretary of State does something and suggests something, then say specifics - one of them. I'm waiting, Mr. Secretary, for the specifics. The other thing is: I am sorry that Congressman Hollik is no longer here, because it only mattered as long as he had said his thoughts, and then he left. So, my fellow Member Hollik says he's throwing in numbers. You're saying they're socialists? During their period of government, the number of employees is reduced by 200,000. Finally, for once, think about it: in 2008 there was not a global financial and economic crisis in Hungary. This did not have an impact on employment policy in Hungary, all over Europe. These have also contributed to certain job losses in a sense. Two, when you're talking about Fidesz, and then there's a mass increase in the number of people employed by 700,000? Then we must begin to think about what the Secretary of State is always arguing about, but even though he is arguing, the fact is that it should not have increased the number of public workers by 160-170 thousand on the stage of public employment, it should not have resulted in the inclusion of more than 100-120 thousand people in Hungary abroad. No, it is not because of student employment, it has not previously been recognised - although he claims that he has counted, but has not been counted - that instead of employment, it is necessary to achieve employment growth by hundreds of thousands of students who have now been counted. These are not employment extensions, these are statistical manipulations. At some point, we should finally get there so that the government or the government can start talking about real, clear figures, and then I don't even want to talk about wages. I mean, I want to, but I'll do it in another way. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-04-18-254	Thank you very much. For two minutes, Mr Ander Balázs is the betterman.
u2017-04-18-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, here's a few words about the 700 grand employment expansion. There's also a community service that affects 355 thousand people every year. Half the size of Slovakia has the same demographic problems as we do, let's say. There, this affects 27,000 people a year. If we multiply this, we still have a 300,000 head start. These people should have been put on the primary labour market, for example with normal training, my dear fellow Member Hollik, not smoked 1000 billion forints, burned in this completely pointless or many times... - I am sorry, respect for all those public workers who do their work with honor and create value or beautify a village, but this 1000 billion forints should not have been smoked there in recent years, but should have been spent on training to lead these people back to the primary labour market; this 300 thousand people, which is still here compared to Slovakia, are still in fact burdened by the Hungarian labour market, and you have a very good opportunity here for statistical ployment. We should have done something with these people, because it doesn't work because, let's say, in Győr-Moson-Sopron county, only 0.6 percent of the people employed are public workers, but, let's say, in my fellow Member Gyüre's narrower Patria, Szabolcs, 18 percent of them are employed. How's that? Then there should be some sort of order within the country, and this huge split-up would somehow be resolved, and then there would be no such problem, for example, that there is a shortage of workers, because with these people, these jobs could be filled. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-18-256	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés.
u2017-04-18-257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm forced to tell you again, because the three hundred, I don't know, thousand is not three hundred thousand, that's 200,000 people about. And if you had been watching the events of the last few weeks or the last few days, you would know very well that now is the time, because the labour market is taking on those workers to a significant extent, the people, the potential workers who want to be in the primary labour market and who are able to take up employment, because they are already in a state of readiness, also in terms of attitude to work. Now is the time for what was regulated by a government decree published on 20 March, which will make us want to achieve and will ensure that this roughly 200,000 public employment staff will be significantly reduced to 150,000. To this end, they will receive substantial training grants, employment support, which will help them transfer these people to the primary labour market. But if you had been informed, you would have known very well that we have already trained those in public employment, and we have always tried to help them to qualify for the primary labour market at a skill level, so what you are saying is not true. On the other hand, what you're saying is not often true, that public employment is some kind of possibility that is a false act, a pseudonym. [[19.20]] These people have done work, done useful work, and this useful work has helped them to move to the primary labour market in an increasing number. I ask you to put sentences closer to reality, and then I won't be forced to respond to numbers or sentences that don't stick to reality. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-18-258	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next speaker is Mr Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2017-04-18-259	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I admit honestly that when I saw the number and address of this bill, I suddenly went crazy, based on its title only, in case there was an initiative by the government that would not increase the vulnerability of Hungarian workers, but perhaps finally admit that the amendment to the former labour code was a wrong move and that the wrong move would be corrected in some form. We have previously tabled more than 500 amendments from the MSZP fraction to the Labour Code, and we have also taken up various proposals from trade unions, since real consultation did not precede the new Labour Code at that time. Therefore, man looked with a little confidence in the direction that perhaps now it would not be vulnerability, but rather job security. But reading the proposal, it seems that the government is on the same path. I did not understand exactly why Mr Secretary of State called Nándor Gúr to account for the fact that he considered the government to be a minister of multinational interests in this regard. I'd like to repeat that. Everyone is talking about the need to introduce this amendment to the government because of the various automotive companies. It cannot be said differently than that the government is shaping the various laws according to the needs of multinational companies, and therefore it is safe to say to the current government that it is not in the interests of employees but of employers in this respect. Mr Secretary General Fónagy spoke here earlier in a debate about the fact that there is a peace of work in Hungary. And speaking of the Code of Work, because I mentioned it, it is worth saying that there is peace of work because this government actually took away the possibility of a strike, the possibility of demonstration from employees in the workplace. In English, there is work peace because there is nothing trade unions can do. You are consciously striving to destroy the trade union movement to increase the so-called flexibility that you have said a lot, also mentioned by the Secretary of State. This flexibility, by the way, is the code name of the Fidesz government for how to better screw employees. So when we hear this, we must be looking for where this could be another vulnerability factor for workers. When you introduced community service years ago, and we missed the lack of proper education and training to get these people out of public work into the world of work, they actually swept away all our proposals and ideas of amendment. When we said that useful work - as the Secretary of State put it - was said to give these people value-making work - was also swept off. I would like to say to Mr Secretary of State that in many places it must be as he says, but in many other places it is that the daily working hours of public workers cannot be filled with meaningful activity to this day, and that is why it is only the scratching that will certainly not do them much good. We may even remember it, because it caused a scandal in the press that in the framework of education and further training, the point, the point, the comma and the two plus two were providing these people with what type of tasks. I don't think that would predestinate them to be able to work for any of the so-called multinational companies whose interests you serve. However, I would ask the Secretary of State - because either he does not know what he was talking about, or it was a slip of the tongue, and if he can read Erik Bánki's proposal now, then perhaps he can understand my question - that the 48 or 40 hours can not exceed, because the bill contains 48 hours, as I know, and not 40 hours, as the Secretary of State has just said in his comment. And if it is specific, then what is important is that if it is limited to how many hours of work a week is expected from an employee, then it does not matter whether it is projected for 12 or 36 months? Because the labour code already gives employers such flexibility that greater flexibility, especially if it is as meaningless as this, is certainly unnecessary, so I would like to know what the real reason is, the real purpose of the lobbying of these automotive companies is for the government to present such an amendment to the Chairman of the Economic Commission. In conclusion, Mr Secretary of State mentioned a lot about the company manager that my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, refused to invite. I'll tell you another company. I'll give you the name of the company, the company's name is Nokia. When Nokia was forced to lay off at its factory in Komárom, they spent many months chasing after the current Prime Minister to give them an appointment, let them talk and agree on how to properly conduct the wave of dismissal at that time. They couldn't reach the Prime Minister, and they couldn't reach him for months, maybe six months. That's how interested the Prime Minister was at that time! You shake your head, Mr. Secretary, because you were still, I think, the mayor of Nagykanizsa, but the Vice President of Nokia called me at that time as the opposition party president, he could talk to me, but not to the Prime Minister. Unfortunately, there was too much I couldn't do at the time, other than listen to what they wanted to say to the Prime Minister, but it wasn't possible, because your Prime Minister didn't give the CEO of such a serious company or the global Vice President of Nokia the opportunity to report on how this could be replaced in a humane way or perhaps with other solutions. So we could put a long line of things you didn't take into account. But since we are talking about this amendment, we are asking you to withdraw this proposal. We ask you to bring the draft text of a new Labour Code into this House, which gives trade unions more rights and greater security to Hungarian workers, because Hungarian workers do not need further flexibility, but more safety at work, and, as Nándor Gúr has already said, higher wages. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-04-18-260	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik.
u2017-04-18-261	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment before us seeks to define the working order at the level of law. The current law, from which we should start, aims to lay down basic rules for employment in the framework of employment, with a view to the principle of freedom of business and freedom of employment. According to the regulatory justification, the intention of the legislator in 2011 was to reduce public intervention in this area and to increase the role of contractual regulation. This endeavour, you have said, adapts to the requirements of the market economy, promotes the efficient organisation of work and the reduction of the administrative burden on employers, and encourages the awareness of workers, while at the same time creating room for workers' organisations. The amendment before us... - and I stopped here for a moment because István Hollik read his things, told me the great generalities, but when my fellow Member Ander Balázs said specific numbers to you, he did not listen to them, but went out to make a phone call instead. Now he's done his job, he's getting up, he's picking up his bag. That's what employees count for! Excuse me, you don't even care about the workers, because in your speech - I'll talk about it - you have told me exactly what the role of this law is, why this law was made. He said that they wanted to support businesses, entrepreneurs, with this law - he said word for word, it is in the protocol - because they deserve it because they create jobs. My fellow Member, shame on you. Why don't you care about the interests of workers? [[19.30]] Where does the interest of the workers count? Because the only thing that matters to you is that the workers continue the work you create for the multinationals as cheaply and eviscerated as possible. [[To István Hollik, leaving the Chamber:]] Goodbye. Your work hours are over... let's get on with it. Congressman, you're out of time. You're going home. This is an employee's interest in Parliament at the moment. Thus, according to the general justification for the amendment before us, the law did not fulfil its expectations, as collective agreements did not have a more significant role in regulating employment relationships. In my view, this is not primarily the reason for the legislation, because the current amendment means that the state wants to tell the state at the heart again, with many details and exceptions, how an employer should organise the work, how it should allocate the working time. Compliance with complex rules is doubtful and control is almost impossible, especially for SMEs. Both workers and employers know this, and from this point forward, the employer remains well-placed in decent working time arrangements, as has been the case so far. Let us remember, however, the last time the government wanted to tell us when to work and when not to work. You remember, I think, my fellow Members, who are here, I am thinking, in particular, of the lockdown on Sunday, which, after a year of conflict, was swept away by national dissatisfaction. Unified central influence in our current colourful and diverse worlds is not a suitable tool for triggering the desired effects and is not capable of achieving the objectives set. Last time in the existing socialism, the Kadári in the seventies, called the Golden Age by Fidesz, had similar regulations in this area. But as we all know, that failed badly. Such unthinkable and unprepared legislation only undermines the rule of law, undermines confidence in the state and hinders the spontaneous enforcement of the rights of those concerned. This kind of in-depth single regulation only triggers the fact that, because of the lack of compliance and uncontrollability, actors simply ignore the legislation and do everything as they have always done, and when the situation makes it necessary, it is duly papered afterwards. This trend is, in our view, harmful and dangerous. Ladies and gentlemen, It's time to start treating society like an adult and not look down on people. It is time to finally believe that people are fully aware of their own values, are aware of their own interests, and are able to enforce them within the framework of an employment relationship. In particular, they would be able to do so if the laws in force were to help them in a simple and understandable way. Simple and understandable - these should be the key words for such a law. This is precisely the criterion that the law does not fulfil. After all, Mr. Secretary of State, I would quote you here, you said that I would tell you what the law contains. Mr. Secretary. You shouldn't tell me. You should definitely write it down. The law should not be explained to you, but a law should appear simply and clearly. I'll ask you a few questions, because I'm sure you can answer that. I would have put it on for István Hollik, but he had already left, and he wouldn't have understood it anyway. So my first question. Secretary of State said that public workers and public employment will now change, and it will be completely different. Tell me the difference. What is the reason for what my fellow Member said here is that the proportion of public workers in Borsod is 18 per cent, while the same proportion in Győr-Moson-Sopron County is slightly higher than 0.5 per cent, moving around 0.6 per cent. Is it because Borsod would be so untrained and so incompetent, or is there another reason for that? I would expect an answer from the Secretary of State. The other one, he says he'll explain. And that's where I said the clarity. I have two more questions for that. Article 3 §, which is Article 94. § 3 of the amendment, where I do not understand what could justify 36 months of working time in any case. It's very long. Plus, it's not very consistent with the thing in 6. Article 99 of the Act of Accession, which was amended by Article 99 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. § 4 shall be amended so that in the event of unequal working time arrangements, the duration of the weekly working time shall be taken into account in accordance with a 12-month average. It is precisely the working time limit that has to be the average of the maximum working time. If it can be 36 months, there is a good chance that the working time calculated on a 12-month average could be even more legally than permitted, because it will be corrected in the next 24 months and there will be no problem, they say. That's how I interpret the law. Mr. Secretary, disprove me if you don't. It is possible, therefore, that you can work freely in the first year and exceed the hours allowed, because in the next two years, if that worker is still there, if he is not replaced, let us say, annually, because he will not be in a position to do so, then this is possible under the law. Then I have one more question. And that's number seven. I'm just gonna say this again, and I don't think you can understand it. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. The amendment to paragraph 3 of Section 3 states that I do not understand what it means to allocate at least one day of rest per month. Does that mean that in such a case, a rest day is enough for a month? Because if so, it's very difficult to support in my opinion. Or do you think it's enough to provide a rest day a week without the fact that you don't have to publish it after six working days, but, let's just say, I might publish one on Tuesday, and then I can publish the next one anytime next week, Friday or Saturday? So I can work up to 7-8 working days on a continuous basis, because it will be completely legal. That's not very friendly either. I think these are legitimate questions. Otherwise, these legitimate questions would probably have been raised even if you had consulted someone on this issue. Because that would be the last question I have to ask you about who you've discussed this law with. What trade unions did you talk to, what employees' interests? They may have talked to employees, or just the multinationals, the employers that István Hollik was talking about when he was still in Parliament - but he was over the time he had to work, and now he's gone home. So according to the Labour Code, he's probably on his rest period. So I would like to know these answers, because these questions, I think, are very important. When you submit such a law, I think the first thing you should do is consult both employers and employees, not at a meeting or two, but for months. And primarily, a government should represent the interests of its employees, and not the interests of the multinational companies or employers who, thanks to your economic policy here in Hungary, almost truly work the Hungarian people for exploitation. After all, if we look at the wages of Hungarians compared to the wages they pay for the same work in Western Europe, in the same length of time, and even as my fellow Member has presented the various surveys here, Hungary still has only a small 500 hours of average Hungarian workers working on an annual basis, such as, say, Germany, and let us see how much they earn, see how they live and how they live in Hungary. And when someone raises a question that is also related to this, that if you have announced this great fight of freedom against the European Union, and Jobbik has brought together a force that is willing to act in the interest of the Union of pay, that the countries of Eastern Europe, the secondary countries of the EU that are exploited, try to bring it to that level or at least to the level that is found in the West, then you simply state, under the leadership of your Prime Minister, that you do not support it. Because you support one thing: what Viktor Orbán said in Saudi Arabia, come to Hungary, invest money, the labour force is cheap, otherwise well-trained, and they can be exploited. They can be worked, and we will create the condition that these people work as much as possible for as little wages as possible. Shame on you! [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-18-262	Thank you very much. Next speaker, Mr Nándor Gúr, notary. [[19.40]]
u2017-04-18-263	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will pick up where my colleague Szilágyi left off. In time, of course, you always have to go back a little bit to make sure that everyone sees, clearly and clearly, what you've been doing for the past seven years. But before I go into this, I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State and the author if they're gonna have to go out, because then a break can be ordered. [[Péter Cseresnyés: Do I need it?]] and then continue the debate because I see that your faction has already failed you in its entirety, so it is only one author and one secretary of state who is trying to defend the impossible here. [[Dr. László György Lukács: And a notary...]] Shame! Shame, Mr. Secretary. He can growl at himself, mumble at himself, but it's a shame. They make themselves ridiculous by not being able to keep part of their group within the walls of Parliament when negotiating a serious bill affecting the multitude of people. My fellow Member Hollik walks out of another Member's speech with a grin on our fellow Member's face? What's with the pompousness? What's with all the pompousness? It's not your job to start lecturing us, no! It is your job to create laws, discussed together with us, and discussed with those involved in this story, in order to benefit them. That's not what you're doing. Specifically, answer the questions clearly. I've been talking to union Confederate leaders, not one, no, more. More! I asked them specifically how much this issue was discussed in the framework of the competitive sphere and the permanent consultation forum of the government. Unfortunately, the answer was nothing. Nothing, okay? That is why, in my first comment, I said that you should withdraw this bill from the start, put it within the framework of the VKF, before the permanent consultation forum of the competition sphere and the government, to discuss it, and then perhaps bring it back. But that is not what you should bring here, but if there is something you want, the correction of the many distorted measures that have been accumulated over the past six to seven years in relation to the Code of Work, which are required by a multitude of actors in the world of work. And you don't care how he demands it of you. You don't care about employees' interests. You believe, as Viktor Orbán himself said, that he is actually the representative, and he will solve everything, and there is no problem with that. Yes! There's a problem, there's a very big problem. It's a very big problem. Yes, true workers' interests are within the trade unions. These trade unions, these confederations, sectoral trade unions should have been listened to piece by piece by Deca, their opinions should be known, and then a legislative amendment proposal should be introduced into the walls of the House. It's a shame and a shame what you're doing! They ignore everything that used to work in this country within the framework of a tripartite system - they ignore it. It does not matter to you how and how many employees think about this story, specifically this draft law. It's uninteresting, it's indifferent. You've decided something, you've discussed it with someone, and I'm going to say it again, yes, who else, if not the interests of multinational companies, will be represented by what you're trying to get accepted here within the walls of Parliament. They may be able to give birth to a decision, but they will never be able to accept it, because the opposition side of the Hungarian Parliament will never accept that you are not interested in Hungarian people, Hungarian workers, and will never be able to ignore it. He will not accept that you will only expand flexibility and will not provide security. It is no coincidence that the number of work accidents shows a 30-40 percent increase in your seven-year governance period. It's not a coincidence! This is a very simple story: because they are already creating conditions that will result in this. This could be predicted, we said in advance, five, six, seven years ago. You didn't care. You denied that you wouldn't, and then you did. You understand what I'm saying, don't you, Secretary of State? And that there have been 5-6-7,000 more people in this country who have been in a work accident, precisely because of the kind of measures that you have taken, you must parallel it with your own conscience, and you must be able to account for it. And there are a lot of other things that I don't want to go further than that, but if the Secretary of State has touched the issue, then I don't want to avoid it. You know, what they did on the public employment stage is that more than 200,000 people were brought into the public employment system, but the majority of these people unfortunately couldn't do value-creating activities because they couldn't give so many people a job combined with value-creating activities. Pearl tree, I could give you other examples, you know. The mayor himself resigns because 36 people have cleaned a 300-meter trench in three months, and that was public employment at a speed of six centimeters a day? Mr. Secretary, it's just that you go in in the morning, sign, sign again in the afternoon. These people's self-esteem has been sabotaged! It's not a job, these people knew it very well! I must say to you that you should not have acted in this way, but in accordance with your promises, and that you should have created hundreds of thousands of new jobs and productive jobs in the economy. But I don't just need a job. If you have a job, you need a decent salary. And if, for the sake of the example, you have approached the more disadvantaged regions of the country for other reasons, I must say that it is unacceptable that today there is a net average wage of 118 thousand forints in the county of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg. An average net wage of 118,000 forints! Do you know how much that is, Mr. Secretary? You know? Not likely, because from the chair you're sitting in, you probably can't see that far. All I have to say to you is that these people also have to make a decent living, and this average salary means that, let's say, almost half of what can be achieved in Budapest is the net average of 226 thousand forints. Not that many, no! That's a terrible amount of money. And you know, if you look at the surrounding countries, only the Visegrád Four, but that's not what the story was about, it was about achieving European wages seven years ago, but even if you look at the Visegrád Four, there are 20-30 percent differences, whether in terms of the net of the minimum wage or in terms of the net of average earnings. That's what you should've done, not in the words, no! That these people can acquire the resources needed to make a decent living. It's not enough to expect the law to be respected, like you said, it's not enough to expect it. No! The background to this must also be established. Employers and workers are not in the same position in the labour market. Unfortunately, there aren't any. Workers should be given greater safeguards and protections. It is no coincidence that there is, and must be, and in the future there must be an interest organisation, simply because these people, unfortunately, can become vulnerable if they are left alone. I must say, Mr. Secretary, that you are also trying to crush this type of network of interests, to make it weightless, so that you can do what you want to do, so that you can do what you think you want. And one more thing... Two more. One is that I'm still waiting for you to tell me specifics if you're talking about me, even because you don't know when I was running the committee. Not between 2006-2010, I was a member, I was his vice president, and I was in a final phase of his president in the period 2008-2010. And there was no specific case that you said. So do not try to put others, anyone, in a situation that is contrary to reality, which does not coincide with reality. [[19.50]] But to give you two more thoughts about the bill. You know, when this bill is presented with reference to better coordination of working time and working time, when it is clear that, in today's context, on an annual, one-year average, weekly working time, together with extraordinary work, should not exceed 48 hours - not 40, Mr. State Secretary, no, 48 hours, is the case today - you can explain, if you are able to explain, what it means if an annual review is to be carried out in order that this week's working time should not exceed 48 hours, then what this three-year extension brings with it. For if he did not exceed it, he shall not exceed it in the following year. It is not so that if it is less than 48, but 44 this year, it may be 50 or 52 in the following year, because the statute states that average weekly working hours of more than 48 hours may not be possible, even with extraordinary work. Do you understand, Mr. Secretary? Or at least I suppose you'll understand sooner or later. What I want to say to you is that we need to put in place regulations that are basically in the interests of workers, their safety. Returning to the fact that if they do not, the number of accidents at work will increase, more and more people will be put in a vulnerable position. Then situations will be brought to life, the foundations of which were created by you on 1 January 2012 in the framework of the Labour Code, that as an example of the afternoon allowance, i.e. they paired the afternoon allowance with zero forints, reduced the amount of night allowances, so that if people did work in the afternoon or at night during a given period, they could obtain less money than they could obtain, say, seven years before doing the same work. And speaking of wages, it is also worth considering to you that it is not enough, it is not enough to raise the minimum wage, it is not enough to move towards an increase in the guaranteed minimum wage. In particular, not while they are doing so while they are raising them, they are primarily and, above all, making significant increases in terms of gross amounts, while pouring down on employers and workers a burden of much greater scale than, say, seven years ago. Do you know how much the levy was on the minimum wage seven years ago, at the net minimum wage of HUF 60 200, which employers and employees paid together? I'll tell you, I'll tell you, 32,000 forints. Do you know how much the minimum wage charge is today for employers and employees in total? I'll tell you this: 73,000 forints. Do you understand? 32,000 compared to 73,000. While the net increase in the minimum wage is now in addition to the increase in the last year, it has increased so much that it now represents the amount it represented in real terms, real values and purchasing power. They've been stealing from these people for five years. With less purchasing money, millions of people with minimum wage went home in this country. And now, by raising the minimum wage, they have thrown a burden on employers and employees together, which then distributes forints from the collection of which to their friends, which are already of unbearable magnitude. And they do not ensure that, at the same time, over these wages, in terms of the minimum wage and the wage above the guaranteed minimum wage, there will also be moderate increases that could guarantee that hundreds of thousands of others will not leave this country. Isn't it enough that 600,000 people who have already forced their way out of this country? Don't you think it should be done to create a situation in terms of wages that should have been done seven years ago, as promised at the beginning of government, so that these processes can stop? Now, this is something to think about, not in the interests of some, using their lobbying powers to bring such draft laws into the walls of the House without discussing them with the relevant representative organisations! Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-04-18-264	Thank you, Congressman, notary. The next speaker is Congressman Ander Balázs, Jobbik.
u2017-04-18-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The point is that those who wish to compete with a low wage level in Hungary or anywhere else in the world and cut employees' rights and try to attract so-called operating capital here are doing nothing but fundamentally endangering the formation of Hungarian human capital. It basically threatens the social regeneration processes without which this people, this nation, will fall into a ravine. What exactly are we thinking here? Here may be the answer, let's say, on the part of the workers in a situation like this, in a situation like this, to stand up and vote with their feet. This is what we see here in recent years, and it can be said that this wave of emigration from Hungary has still not reached the level in Romania. Well, thank you very much, but the death of the Romanian neighbor's cow doesn't make us happy. From here, even more than 600,000 people have gone, most of them are well-trained and agile young people. Then how can the Hungarian worker respond to this situation? For example, he doesn't have the guts to start a family. In these circumstances, when he is practically a wage slave, the Hungarian worker is practically employed as a biorobot, as a people of modern times, leaving the servant world of Gyula Illyés and applying it to current life situations, he may not dare to start a family, to have children, because in such circumstances the normal rearing of these children is basically not guaranteed. And then you can also give me an answer like the ones that came on my phone along the way, so that if you say you find this employee in a slightly more paprika mood, who, by the way, I'm sure you didn't ask me before this bill was submitted, well, so this Hungarian worker could tell you not to beat the nettle with someone else's - excuse me! And imagine yourself in the situation of an average Hungarian worker, imagine the living conditions that he must live in, and then put these otherwise very nicely-sounding lonzunges, that in fact this bill does nothing but protect them. Here's one and a half lines from the bill, number four. Paragraph 5 of the Act states that the employer may also modify the reported working time schedule at the request or with the consent of the employee. Dear Secretary of State, Can you imagine a situation in today's Hungary where there are existentially threatened workers, there is, say, a loan hanging over the family as the sword of Damokles, a foreign currency loan, from which they have not been saved, a fee should be paid, a child should be taught, and you tell the employer, you, listen, thank you very much, but I do not accept this, I do not agree to modify this schedule then. Well, if we are not looking at today's Hungarian reality from some other planet or from some kind of glass dome or from some ivory tower, then we must say that such a situation cannot be imagined, because it is true that the employer will force these hard-working, early and horribly underpaid Hungarian workers to agree to this. For example, this is one of our problems with this bill. In general, it could be said that here we are confronted with the idealistic implementation of the so-called captured state, when foreign multinational capital and, where appropriate, even the domestic oligarchs - let us just think of Lőrinc, who, by chance, is not a stróman, and who is soaring in polyhistory heights with Renaissance personalities, who is able to withdraw billions of forints from his own family business in the form of dividends a year, and then let us look at how this man keeps his employees, in what circumstances he employs them, and, let us say, the average monthly earnings of the people employed in his companies. [[20.00]] Paragraph 2 of the Act states that the employer may also modify the notified working time schedule at the request or with the consent of the employee. Dear Secretary of State, Can you imagine a situation in today's Hungary where there are existentially threatened workers, there is, say, a loan hanging over the family as the sword of Damokles, a foreign currency loan, from which they have not been saved, a fee should be paid, a child should be taught, and you tell the employer, you, listen, thank you very much, but I do not accept this, I do not agree to modify this schedule then. Well, if we are not looking at today's Hungarian reality from some other planet or from some kind of glass dome or from some ivory tower, then we must say that such a situation cannot be imagined, because it is true that the employer will force these hard-working, early and horribly underpaid Hungarian workers to agree to this. For example, this is one of our problems with this bill. In general, it could be said that here we are confronted with the idealistic implementation of the so-called captured state, when foreign multinational capital and, where appropriate, even the domestic oligarchs - let us just think of Lőrinc, who, by chance, is not a stróman, and who is soaring in polyhistory heights with Renaissance personalities, who is able to withdraw billions of forints from his own family business in the form of dividends a year, and then let us look at how this man keeps his employees, in what circumstances he employs them, and, let us say, the average monthly earnings of the people employed in his companies. ( 20.00) At this time, the knife opens in the pocket, and this phenomenon is called the phenomenon of the captured state, when these people or these foreign colonists dictate, they put these bill proposals in the pen, and they say otherwise in an insane and unacceptable way that this Hungarian labour market is still not sufficiently flexible. No, the hell you don't. Otherwise, it can no longer be more flexible in this form, because then the servants' world will really return, or they will bring back slavery. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] This labour market should be made more flexible in such a way that, let us say, the proportion of part-time work, which is shamefully very low in Hungary, is somehow trying to increase this. And, for example, by allowing women who have children to reconcile family life and work, self-fulfilment, because there is a huge hiatus in this, we see huge shortcomings here in Hungary. What's the solution? In Jobbik's view, it is certainly not; it is certainly not that state subsystems continue to be underfunded to the extent that we are otherwise experiencing, as we see. Education, health and the underfunding of a thousand social systems and social policies in Hungary will determine the social disaster, the wreck society that everyone, as a responsible representative, will have to meet if they stick their noses out of the ivory tower that you are obviously getting used to very easily. But we say from here, from the opposition, yes, that this is something that we try to avoid and shed ourselves off, and that much more room should also be provided for the dialogue that we have already talked about. The fact that there has not been sufficient consultation with the trade unions, the employee side, is quite certain. Otherwise, the solution could also be at company level - and the Hungarian state could show us the way, say, to multinational companies that are settled here and, if necessary, supported by serious hundreds of billions - to what extent it increases, say, wages for companies under the authority of the Hungarian National Asset Management, or to examine, for example, the case of Volán workers, where a lot of people still do not reach the minimum wage and will go. I know, yes, it's raised by 30 percent, but let's add that in seven years these workers have been quite starved, and this was a wage increase that could be considered as a quasi-choice wage increase, which is very nice, very right, so it should have been done before. But to go back to what would be the solution at the company level at that time, for example, to provide normal wages for these Hungarian workers, because, as I said here in my previous speeches, while, in proportion to GDP, a Hungarian worker produces half of the level in Germany, and then again, let us say that he works 1900 hours a year, not 1400 hours, but even if we break it down by working hours, he reaches half of the GDP level in Germany or even the Netherlands, but still the wages are below the back of the frog. If we compare it with an Austrian level, where, let's say, the average wage is around EUR 2300, then the level of EUR 600 in Hungary is shameful, outrageous and totally unacceptable. That is why we do not understand why you cannot support Jobbik's EU wage initiative on the basis of political considerations, because, indeed, it is very closely linked to this item on the agenda, this bill, the question of all this. Then we should not be dealing with these errors and indeed existing labour market tensions here, but rather in ways that would give Hungarian workers a normal life, allow them to keep their families safe and raise their children. And then some specific questions, Mr. Secretary. Your words will be kept in the minutes here, so I would like you to give a very specific answer here in the event of a huge wage volatility, which the working time limit allows when the employee receives the allowance for extraordinary work. In what form are you going to get it, how long will you have to wait for it anyway? "At the end of the working time, " says the answer, "but there is also a sub-heading of this: what if he receives compensation on his own time? According to labor lawyers, pay attention, say, to the writings and trade union writings appearing on HR Portal, so, according to these articles, it is possible that the Hungarian employee may receive this compensation in seven years. Okay, I'm very pleased that if Mr. Secretary of State is shaking his head and then answer me, I ask you, and then your word, as a word of arbitration, in this case in the course of labour law disputes, can serve as a kind of compass for Hungarian workers who feel themselves now in trouble or are threatened, because the question here is that if - then I say it again - you receive compensation in free time, you may easily get it at the end of the year after the next working time limit. There are such fears. If you had properly conducted these discussions with employees' representatives, these questions might not have been raised and would not have come to light on a professional portal such as HR Portal. However, in order for this to happen, you would have to take the Hungarian trade unions, the entire trade union movement more seriously, because if you look at how much money the Hungarian state is spending on hundreds of thousands of Hungarian workers, let's say responsible for their fate, you will find a shameful amount of $4 billion, which, by the way, is the price of 1 or 2 kilometers of motorways and overpriced kilometres of railway lines. I'm not saying that, by the way, and the union leaders aren't asking you to put this money in their pockets and become quasi-state officials to pay them, that's not what this is about. The institutional system should be financed, and this whole conciliation process should be supported, which is not only a question of law, but a question of simple culture. The question is very simple: how much do they appreciate the respect of Hungarian workers and trade unions representing their interests in Hungary? This should be answered, and, Mr Secretary of State, there is only one question, because it has been embezzled here, and I have also talked about it, György Szilágyi: how can there be such great inequality in Hungary that the proportion of public workers in Szabolcs is 18 percent, but in Győr-Moson-Sopron county 0.6 percent? So let's find a way to solve this puzzle, because that means that then there would still be an employee in Hungary, obviously these would have to be trained, so that if there is a job, as we would assume, if there were jobs in the region of Győr, and you would support the fact that in the eastern part of the country, or in the crisis regions that are broken down, such as South Transdanubia, the county of Somogy, especially in the southern part of it, businesses that are really creating value and not only eviscerating the workers, if you would pay more attention to the domestic SME sector that would be able to export, let's say, it would be easy to answer these questions very simply. Then there would not be such a terrible, huge gap within the country, both in terms of employment and, where appropriate, in terms of average wages in each county, where a hundred thousand forints, say, around Szabolcs, can be seen, on the other hand, the average wages in Budapest or Western Hungary, and I would add: not the many, but the shamefully few that Hungarian workers earn in Szabolcs then. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Or even in South Somogy. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[20.10]]
u2017-04-18-266	Thank you very much. Good evening, everyone. We will continue our work with a two-minute speech. Congressman Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, in two minutes. Here you go.
u2017-04-18-267	Thank you very much, Mr. President. But not only in Szabolcs, but also in Borsod, Nógrád and Békés, there is no net income of 60% of the net in Budapest. But I, too, add that it is not the many, no, but the dreadfully few that are in these backward areas. You know, the reason for this is that in 2010-11, unlike your promises, no significant increases were made, created or generated, the result is that over 600 thousand people have left this country, 75-80 percent are under 40 years of age and qualified people, and now they are trying to find solutions to certain situations through additional actions. No, this mistake you've made cannot be corrected for this prehistoric sin. They eviscerate people. Today, in a situation where, in the absence of 4 hours, 2500 hours are to be worked in a manner blessed with this bill, there is nothing else to say: people are being eviscerated and there is no need to provide proper working conditions, but rather to turn a blind eye. In particular, I expect a third answer to two things, because not even once, nor did the rapporteur, nor did the State Secretary, reply. In particular, when did you negotiate with the VKF regarding the negotiations? Do you know when the competition and the government's permanent consultation forum was consulted? If the VKF hasn't been consulted, what trade union confederations have you discussed? When, what trade union confederations did you negotiate? If this has not been done, I would like to say once again that this bill should be withdrawn, taken into the framework of the VKF, discussed, but together with all their previous proposals concerning the Code of Labour, and then come back to the walls of Parliament. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-04-18-268	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask, but there is no motivation behind this question, only the duty to see if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State as rapporteur... [[Péter Cseresnyés: I am not the author.]] I am asking Mr Erik Bánki, a member of the Economic Committee, if he wishes to reflect. I didn't want to shock Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Congressman.
u2017-04-18-269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, I also said that I would like to share some points with you when concluding the debate, the general debate. The opposition's attitude to the bill did not surprise me. We've heard so much that it's hard to even take notes, and many of them had nothing to do with the bill, by the way, but we've also gotten used to it recently. I would perhaps like to highlight the performance of Nándor Gúr, because I must say this separately. Summarizing Nándor Gúr's performance: 34 minutes 8 seconds. That's all there is to say about your speeches today, Congressman, nothing more. [[Nándor Gúr: Answer the questions!]] That is about what your speech today meant, that you could at least record for the record that you are the most productive Hungarian Member of Parliament. If someone will ever take the trouble - although I do not think that will happen - to read through the minutes that contain your speeches, how can I say? - you will be able to do a very nice summary study on it, because talking about nothing in the way you do it is excellent and unique in the Hungarian Parliament. But to try to disprove some of his lies as usual, I try to make sure that I take the time to do so. I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that you're not in the press. When you talk about the launch of the committee, you can, of course, read this in the press, in reality, that is not the case, Congressman. And the fact that we don't give out information and data when we're required by a court doesn't tell us the truth, but you know that, because your fellow Members are sitting on the committee, if you asked them, they could confirm that. We haven't received an official notice of the court's decision until today. As soon as this arrives, we will, of course, release the data and information required by the court, because we are law-abiding, as opposed to you, honourable Member. The fact that this bill would put workers' hands on the line and that we represent the interests of multinational companies is more than ridiculous, Congressman. You know that, because the person who served the multinational interest was none other than the Hungarian Socialist Party itself. All of your government's decisions were either in the interests of the Hungarian banking system or multinational companies or the national banking system, as opposed to the Hungarian citizens. You have done nothing but raise overhead costs even when world market prices did not justify this at all. You sold it, you privatised the entire energy sector in Hungary, Mr President, Gyula Horn was the Prime Minister, the representative of your party, who sold the Hungarian energy sector by guaranteeing - guaranteed - a return on assets for an undertaking that would not have justified this at all. They did nothing else during their entire government, between 94-98 and 2002-2010, but served a foreign interest. I see that your thinking has not changed to this day, but you are trying to drag this on the Hungarian Government with little success, honourable Member. A trade union consultation was also held before the submission of the submission. The government has also agreed with two trade unions, and with the employees who have been consulted, at their request, this bill has come before you, and not only the foreign employers, but also the Hungarian employers, have asked for this type of amendment. Nothing changes, and I would like to say it again, I would also like to say this to Mr Ander Balázs, who called us sociopaths and neoliberals as the presenters of the proposal. [[Ander Balázs: I called the neoliberal idea "socio-pa"!]] Yeah. Neoliberal thoughts, honourable Member, are as far away from us as Mako is from Jerusalem, you know that. If you look at the economic policy that the Hungarian government has been pursuing since 2010, there is much to say about it, but not about it being neoliberal. Those who attacked our economic policy the most were the neoliberal economists, who kept calling the Hungarian measures unorthodox and impossible, impossible solutions, and then 3-4 years later, when the results came, they said that, wow, really, maybe, and really brought the results that we had intended from the beginning. One final point added: the Fidesz and KDNP factions of the Hungarian Government, the Hungarian Parliament, want to serve the interests of Hungarian workers only and only later, as we have done, so the bill states that nothing can be done against the wishes of the workers and their will. Thus, increasing the time within which this working time may be allocated from 12 months to 36 months cannot be explained by anything other than the fact that we want to make the most of the labour force's potential and capacities that exist in companies. It is not in the interests of anyone else but the interests of workers and the interests of employers. The interests of workers in order to be able to spend their working time as efficiently as possible and to give them everything they need, all the working time allowances they deserve under the Labour Code and the opportunity for employers to make the most of their capacity. This will obviously conflict with them in terms of results, which, as has been done, will again serve the interests of workers by creating new jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, It is much more clear about this bill that it is as pro-worker as it is pro-employment, so the attacks that have been made on these issues are strongly rejected. I still think that it is worth supporting this bill in this House, and the Fidesz and KDNP factions will do so in the final vote. Thank you for your attention, Mr President.
u2017-04-18-270	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today, and now we are going to speak after the agenda. Zoltán Készép applied for a post-meeting speech with the title of "National treason" by independent Member Zoltán Késző. Congressman, please. [[20.20]]
u2017-04-18-271	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you for giving me the title in Russian, and I am very happy for that.
u2017-04-18-272	Look, I'm trying to do everything I can to please you, but the thing is, besides being happy, this is the title of your speech.
u2017-04-18-273	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, That's right, the Hungarian government is violating law; I don't think I'm going to say a lot of surprising things here tonight. In violation of Law C of 2012 258 and 259 Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides for treason and infidelity. According to the law, a Hungarian citizen who contacts or maintains relations with a foreign government or a foreign organisation in order to violate Hungary's independence, territorial integrity or constitutional order shall be punished for treason by a sentence of up to five years and fifteen years. The sentence may be a life sentence if treason is committed using public service or official assignment. A Hungarian citizen who has abused his public service or official mandate or who has been in contact with a foreign government or a foreign organisation is infidelity, thereby endangering Hungary's independence, territorial integrity or constitutional order, is punishable by two to eight years of imprisonment due to a crime of infidelity. Ladies and gentlemen, We are particularly troubled if this person is the Prime Minister himself. Because we call him the Paks II. You're pushing your country into debt slavery with never-reimbursing investment just so that your illegally rich oligarchs can become seven-tenths billionaires? What do we call a man who wants to wipe out a commercial TV channel with the money of the Rosatom that broadcasts real news instead of brainwashing? What do we call the one who imports Putin's Civil Code into Hungary to destroy the islands of freedom? What do we call a man who drives away the best university in his country because he and his boss in Moscow are disturbed by freedom, university autonomy and the mass of educated heads of people? What do we call the person who opens the door to our country's secret services and organised crime with the migration bond business? What do we call a man who blocks our country's secret service against Russia and doesn't take part in the defense against the Russian disinformation war on his allies' side? What do we call a government that sends data and political opinions of Hungarian voters to Moscow? What do we call those who refuse to answer directly in Parliament questions about the origin and foreign concealment of their assets? Let us call it what it is: treasonous and unfaithful to the interests of Hungary. How Viktor Orbán, who hated Russia before 2009, became the best student of Vladimir Putin and the betrayer of Hungarian interests is incomprehensible. One thing we do know: a private meeting between Viktor Orbán and Vladimir Putin took place in St. Petersburg a few months before the 2010 elections. We do not know what the former head of the KGB's successor organization told Viktor Orbán, but we see that since then the Prime Minister has been pursuing a policy in Hungary that is in line with the interests of Russia and has substantially recalled the Russians. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, There's still a way back from here. At the moment, however, the Orbán system is certainly moving on the Turkish and Russian roads, taking rights from one point to the next, chasing potential opponents, and everyone who does not stand to applaud will be the enemy. The Hungarian application of the law of Putin, which stigmatizes civilians, is an important step on this shameful path. Not the already fully transparent civilians, but the Hungarian government, which is running the migration business, serves foreign power. It's not the civilians, it's the government, it's the foreign agency. The road to Orbán is headed to the world of Asian oppression, the dictatorship, where the European Union no longer protects, where only Nero's madness is the master. Where the arbiter's palm is itchy when he sees protestors. My fellow members of the Government. [[Nándor Gúr: Which one? There's none here.]] If you think you can get away with it, you're wrong. Their loyalty will not be enough: it is clear from Viktor Orbán's personality and system that he will not tolerate any opposition or even abstention. He's more of a student of Rakosi's than Kadar's. There will be all pro-government politicians, government newspapers and universities here who refuse to imagine their existence in the service of the leader alone. In this system, thought is sin, independence is sin, freedom is sin, integrity is sin. The Prime Minister only needs one type of man who keeps his empty soda can as a favor on the shelf. It may sound funny, but they'll realize it's not humor, and the sooner they wake up, the more chance we'll have. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] to rebuild this country torn apart from evil and power madness. Remember, the historical responsibility is yours. There is no obligation to follow Viktor Orbán on the road to Moscow. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-04-18-274	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that we have reached the end of today's agenda. I thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its session at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. Good evening, everyone. Good night. [[Meeting ended at 8:25 p.m.]]
