u2017-05-17-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 26th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that at the meeting, Attila Gelencsér and Nándor Gúr will help me. It is now time to begin the general debate on the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2018. The bill is T/15381. Opinion of the State Audit Office T/15381/10. The website is available to everyone. I would like to inform you that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, Allow me to pay tribute to Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, Mr Tihamér Warvasovszky, Vice-President of the State Audit Office, Mr Árpád Kovács, President of the Fiscal Council. I would like to inform you that during the hearing of the bill, the Committee on Budgets shall act as a legislative committee. I would like to remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the proposal within a 30-hour timeframe. The agenda recommendation shall be appended to the allocation of timeframes. I would like to ask Mr Attila Gelencsér to explain the distribution of the time-frame of the factions available today, as well as the main rules of the debate.
u2017-05-17-1	Dear Parliament, Today's 12 hours timeframe is divided into 247 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 113 minutes for the KDNP Group, 134 minutes for the MSZP Group, 124 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 73 minutes for the LMP Group and 29 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 30-30 minutes lead speakers. I would like to inform you that the unused time frame for negotiations available on each sitting cannot be carried over to the next day.
u2017-05-17-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, if the MEP has spoken through the head of the group, his speech will be included in the speaking time of the group that has announced him as a speaker. Where he has made a direct application, his statement shall not be included in the time frame and shall be granted a speaking time equal to the speaking time per independent Member, i.e. seven minutes each. The voice of the minority advocate invited by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary can take place on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday in 20-20 minutes, in a total of 60 minutes, which, of course, does not take into account the timeframe. In the general debate today, in a 40-minute time frame for the opening speech by the author, the Speaker of the President of the State Audit Office, in a 30-minute time frame for the speech of the President of the Board of Budgets, in a 30-minute time frame for the speakers of the political groups, the speech of the first independent Member will be possible within a 15-minute time frame, for the speech of the minority advocate invited by the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, as I have already mentioned, in a 20-minute time frame, and for further speeches to the extent of the time frame of each faction. I would like to draw your attention to the possibility of submitting amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, the rapporteur on the agenda, as I have already said in the previous reading, in a 40-minute time frame. I will wait for Minister to come up to the pulpit, for he will speak from here, from the platform. Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2017-05-17-3	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Lords of the President, Ladies and gentlemen. The 2018 budget is the budget of those living from work, which gives every Hungarian person the opportunity to take another step forward in their own life. Therefore, the civilian government remains committed to stimulating job creation, providing exemplary support for families in Europe as well as strengthening Hungary's external and internal security. Next year's budget, following the fiscal policy of previous years, is based on the values of predictability, security and development. The positive effects of the structural transformation of the period behind us are well reflected in the next results of government economic policy. The year 2018 can also be one in which our country's economy continues to grow along a stable and sustainable path beyond the EU average. Hungary's performance has been achieved since 2010, its disciplined fiscal policy, and its reduction in public debt has been recognised by large international organisations, including credit rating agencies. That's why last year our country ended up in the investment category. According to the market, of course, this has been the case for a long time, but we are pleased that credit rating agencies now see it the same way. In order to strengthen the dynamic growth of the Hungarian economy, the focus of the 2018 budget is on the parallel promotion of wage catch-up and efficiency-enhancing efforts of companies. The government's aim is to make it worth the work of everyone in Hungary, and to ensure that people earn their living primarily from income. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to briefly look back on the main economic policy achievements of previous years that served as a basis for planning this 2018 budget in a modern, XXI. To build a competitive economy and society of the century. The growth path of the Hungarian economy has been stable and balanced since the turn of 2013. In 2014, gross domestic product increased by 4 percent, by 3.1 percent in 2015 and by 2 percent last year. We particularly welcome the fact that, despite the significant lack of EU funds in 2016, the performance of the Hungarian economy was above the EU average, to which most sectors contributed positively. [[8.10]] This is not due to an increase in loans and not in debt, which is clearly demonstrated by the positive development of equilibrium indicators: in 2016, the surplus of foreign trade was close to EUR 10 billion, the preliminary deficit of public finances was reached at 1.68 percent, while the government debt dropped to 74.1 percent. Thus, contrary to the mid-2000s, when borrowing or privatisation revenues served as a basis for economic growth, the Hungarian economy is today on a path that does not increase the risks, but on the contrary, reduces them and increases more than the average of the European Union. Thus, the great result of the period behind us is that we have set the economy on a growing path, while we have finally rid ourselves of the burden of borrowing from the IMF and the European Commission. It is therefore in our common interest that the cost of public services is financed by the State without borrowing from its operating income, i.e. only to use the State's revenue to cover its operation. So, ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 budget was also built in the same structure as we did in previous years, with a zero budget for the functioning of the state, because we only spend as much on our expenditure as we have on revenue, all the other investments and developments. This also means that only the planned deficit for domestic and EU development resources is the government, which contributes to creating a healthy economic environment. [[András Tállai sneezes.]] And that's true, cheers, Congressman. The policy measures of the civil government are focused on strengthening families, improving the situation of people from work, creating a work-based society and safeguarding the safety of Hungarian people. Family policy is based on encouraging childbearing and supporting child rearing. In this way, thanks to the favourable 15 percent personal income tax rate in Europe and the unique family tax system, there are now nearly one million families left with more money. In order to support family formation and marriage, first married couples are entitled to tax relief, which can be used regardless of the family discount from 2017. In addition, with the home creation programme, the government will contribute HUF 10 million, while the Hungarian families will have access to their own homes if they raise or take up three or more children, while the rate of VAT on housing is reduced from the previous 27 percent to 5 percent. Not only families, but everyone's wallet is affected by the reduction of the most important food - from 2016 to pigmeat, in 2017 for milk, poultry and eggs - to 5%. In addition, the government also reduced the VAT on restaurant meals and the Internet to 18 percent in the first round by 2017. Our priority is to replace the aid-based economy with a work-based economy, i.e. it is worth working for everyone. Our employment policy results so far speak for themselves: the unemployment rate is 4.5 percent, and the number of employees is already over 4 million 350 thousand, which also means that since the change of regime, not so many people have worked in Hungary. Compared to 2010, 700,000 more people have jobs. At the same time, the Hungarian economy must switch to a path on which the cheap labour force is not the basis of competitiveness, but efficiency. The government's economic policy reflects this objective and its actions are intended to help achieve it. To this end, a six-year tax reduction and wage increase agreement was reached last November, which means both wage catch-up and reduction of the tax burden and burden on businesses. Based on the wage agreement, the rate of corporation tax in Europe decreased to one of the lowest levels this year, to 9 percent, while the minimum wage rose by 15 percent, the minimum wage for skilled workers and the guaranteed minimum wage by 25 percent. The employer's social contribution tax was reduced from 27 to 22 per cent. Meanwhile, real wages have been growing for 50 months and earnings have increased by 10.3 percent in the first two months of 2017. Higher actions have a positive impact on mobility within the country, reducing the attractiveness of working abroad. This also encourages the return from public employment to the open labour market, which facilitates the flow of labour reserves in the domestic economy. Ladies and gentlemen, The essence of the government's pension policy is that pensioners are also beneficiaries of the development of domestic economic processes. In 2010, the government promised and promised to protect the real value of pensions year after year, i.e. maintain their purchasing power. As a result, the average purchasing power of pensions increased by more than 23 per cent between 2011 and 2016 due to persistently low inflation and their purchasing power improved by 10 per cent. If the expected inflation exceeds the increase, pensioners can expect compensation. We have followed this practice year after year, and it is due to this that the loss can never affect pensioners, it is necessary to compensate them for the evolution of inflation. When it comes to creating and maintaining the security of Hungarian people, there is no compromise for the government. So so far and beyond, we have taken all the necessary measures and we are taking them against the country's external threats. We ensure the safety of Hungarian people with the reinforced legal and physical border closure and the continuous development of police and defence. The above-mentioned measures, which represent security, predictability and substantial progress for all Hungarian people, families and businesses, served as compasses for planning next year's budget. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, after this brief reflection, to switch to the presentation of the draft budget law for 2018. Next year's budget does not deviate from the objectives of previous years and the most important measures, it will continue to build on maintaining stability, reducing public debt, keeping the general government deficit low, and increasing employment and increasing economic performance. For the third year now, it has been a practice for this House to learn about the measures planned for the following year, their effects and their scope of manoeuvre by all stakeholders, families, businesses and public institutions. Spring budget planning is clearly proven and has fulfilled its expectations in policy terms. By the beginning of the summer, the country has a once again approved budget, which strengthens predictability and predictability. Due to the parallel planning of the budget with the preparation of Hungary's convergence programme, the timing and content of the two documents have been achieved. Thanks to favourable fiscal and real economic developments, the budget will count on 4.3 percent economic growth and 2.4 percent deficit by 2018, with 3% inflation. In the macroeconomic projections taken into account in the planning of the 2018 budget, the government expects the sustainable and stable growth of the Hungarian economy, coupled with an inflation environment that is also appropriate to the objectives of the central bank. I would like to mention here that this design is supported by the evolution of the planned and ongoing processes for this year. Just yesterday, the Hungarian Central Statistical Office published the latest figures for economic growth. The Hungarian economy increased by 4.1 percent in the first quarter, which is certainly the basis for us to expect such an increase either this year or next year. [[8.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, At the same time, our common burden, the reduction of public debt in proportion to gross domestic product, continues. The debt ratio according to the EU methodology is falling to 70.5 per cent, which will be one and a half percentage points lower than in 2017. So there's no surprise here either. Over the last six years, we have continuously reduced the level of public debt, so economic growth is not coming from credit, as in previous years, before 2010, but, on the contrary, it is accompanied by a reduction in debt, and we do not want to change that next year. Next year, a number of policy areas will have additional resources compared to previous years. Allow me to highlight some of these as well. We will spend 81 billion forints more on education next year than this year. We will spend 102 billion forints more on healthcare compared to this year. We spend 287 billion forints more on pensions, family support and social territory in 2018 than this year. We will spend HUF 205 billion more on economic development, while the budget will provide HUF 83 billion more on law enforcement and strengthening public security in 2018. In the latter case, of course, let me add that, if necessary and justified by the situation, we will spend even more on it; as I stressed, besides supporting families, employment, job creation, security is the number one objective of this proposal for a budget law, and therefore, on this issue, if necessary, we will be able to spend additional amounts on law enforcement and public security. I would point out here that the management of migratory pressure remains an additional task for Hungary, so the 2018 budget provides an adequate financial background for the protection of our borders, as in previous years. In order to combat illegal immigration, public security will have a 19 percent increase compared to 2017, with a total of HUF 514 billion. Dear House, In order to avoid unforeseen risks and to ensure the coverage of interim government decisions, the draft budget law for 2018 has been prepared conservatively, as in recent years. Accordingly, we planned for next year with the same level of reserve as this year. There is HUF 60 billion available in the National Defence Fund, HUF 110 billion in the allocation of extraordinary government measures as a general reserve. We have redesigned and proposed to Parliament to accept that a further HUF 35 billion of stability reserves per budget heading will strengthen the system of reserves. So I can say to anyone who has been paying close attention to the numbers that there is more than HUF 200 billion in reserve for the next year. Ladies and gentlemen, As you know, the civilian government that took office in 2010 has set the goal of creating a work-based economy, and next year's budget is about people from work, as one of the most important factors for economic growth is a well-trained, quality workforce. On the basis of the six-year wage agreement concluded last November, the minimum wage will increase by an additional 8 per cent from 2018 and the guaranteed minimum wage by another 12 per cent from 2017 onwards, following a significant minimum wage and a reduction in the employer's taxes and contributions. The measures will double the wages of skilled workers compared to 2010. In the meantime, we will also carry on the career and wage programs. The financial and moral appreciation of public service workers has already been strengthened by the government with a number of measures in recent years, and next year they will again be given a high priority. These affect some 556 thousand people. The military and police career model launched in 2015 will continue, with an additional average increase of 5 percent in 2018 between soldiers and law enforcement workers. Further increases will be made to health professionals, including employees of the National Rescue Service. The employees of the National Tax and Customs Office will receive an additional 15% salary increase in 2018, thus achieving an average increase of 50 per cent. In 2018, an additional 5% increase will be made in the increase in the salary base for judges and prosecutors launched in 2016, as well as higher education teachers, researchers and teachers. In addition, according to previous decisions, the wages of teachers will be increased in the framework of the qualification. The budget also covers the continuation of all measures already implemented, such as teachers' careers and related wage measures, the careers of state officials of district and county government offices, and health, social and cultural wage measures. In the education sector, we will also provide the necessary resources for wage-setting of teachers, researchers and teachers in higher education, as well as for investments to improve the quality of education, vocational training and higher education. Instead of aid, public works will continue in line with the principle of work, which will provide the most disadvantaged people with the opportunity to return to the world of work. In addition, the government continues to pay particular attention to job creation and to support the employment of individual disadvantaged groups. This will also lead to an increase in both the number of economically active and the number of people working in 2018, so that the unemployment rate can decrease to 4 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, The continued targeted VAT cuts will provide significant support to all Hungarian families, improve the competitiveness of domestic producers and contribute to further growth of trade flows. Since the VAT on fresh milk, poultry and eggs decreased to 5 percent this year, the VAT rate for fish meat will be 5 percent from 1 January 2018, if this is supported. The VAT on internet access and restaurant services is further reduced from 18 in 2017 to 5 per cent in 2018. One of the lowest in Europe, 15 percent of personal income tax remains the key, so by 2018, a family with two earning, average income, will remain around 240 thousand forints per year compared to 2015. What kind of entrepreneurs do they have? Compared to this year, the small company tax is reduced by another 1 percentage point to 13 percent, called the kiva. The key to corporate tax remains at least nine percent; with this, I can safely say that we can show the lowest corporate tax rate in Europe, certainly in the European Union, but there is only one country outside the European Union with such a low rate. The health contribution, the eho key, will be reduced by 2 percentage points to 20 percent for entrepreneurs. Last year's social contribution tax is down to 27 percent and this year's only 22 percent next year's social contribution tax is down to 20 percent. Last but not least, in the case of small-scale breweries, 200,000 hectolitres instead of 8 thousand will be the limit under which only 50 per cent of excise duty is to be paid. Ladies and gentlemen, The government has already helped to improve the life situation of families and encouraged childbearing by a number of measures. This proven system will be further strengthened by next year's budget. From January 2018, the tax relief of families with two children can increase to HUF 35,000 per month, so they can receive a total discount of HUF 420 thousand per year. In order to support family formation and marriage, first married couples can expect a tax reduction in 2018 regardless of the use of the family discount. [[8.30]] The home creation programme will continue, for which more resources will be available in 2018, and exactly HUF 226 billion will be available. National home-building communities have also set themselves the goal of accessing housing and improving housing conditions, which can start this year. The government is even more supportive of families in need by extending the free textbook supply. From 2018, the State will ensure that the first successful language exam and the first advanced foreign language graduation are obtained free of charge. In addition, we will support the free acquisition of young people's first driving licenses as part of the extension of youth benefits. All of these measures contribute to the achievement of family policy and demographic objectives, encourage childbearing, increase labour mobility, competitiveness and improve the quality of life of the population. Dear Parliament, For the 2014-2020 cycle, the government has set a more targeted and more effective use of the EU funds that our country rightly deserves. In this context, we have decided to devote 60% of the available funds to economic development, which can substantially help to boost economic growth, increase employment through investment and improve competitiveness. In addition, significant resources are, of course, available for the development of the health and social sector, for social inclusion programmes and for modernising public administration and public service infrastructure. Since every EU programme will be announced by the government by 2017, these will contribute to Hungary's strengthening with concrete results next year and in the coming years. The primary objective is to sign the total amount of aid by the end of 2018 and to pay most of it to the beneficiaries. In addition to grants, compared to the previous financial period, the role of financial instruments that can be relocated several times will increase, thus providing secure funding for the various developments of businesses in the long term. We plan to pay a total of HUF 2417 billion in the following year through grants using the resources of the Structural, Rural Development and Fisheries and other European Union network financing instruments, such as transport infrastructure development. In addition, EU funds that do not appear in the domestic budget are also worth mentioning, but the European Commission will transfer them to HUF 425 billion in the form of agricultural and direct producer subsidies in 2018. We need to remember that these transfers are not aid, but amounts due to Hungary under cohesion policy, which facilitate economic and social convergence, where the Hungarian budget is 15 forints out of every 100 forints of the projects. By the way, that's part of next year's draft. Nearly HUF 1912 billion of EU revenue in the budget accounts for almost 5 percent of gross domestic product. However, Hungary also contributes to the common cash register of the European Union, and exactly HUF 310 billion is paid into this joint cash register. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, areas where EU funds are not available or limited should not be excluded from domestic budget support. Improving the competitiveness of the domestic economy has become a key issue for economic expansion, which we want to encourage, in addition to EU funds, by providing domestic resources. For example, in the framework of the Healthy Budapest in 2018 HUF 30 billion will be allocated to the development of health care services in Budapest and Pest county, while further HUF 9.5 billion will be allocated to the infrastructure renewal of the institutions concerned. We will use HUF 5.1 billion for the joint development of Bethesda Children's Hospital and Buda Irregularity Hospital, as well as measures in the field of industry, such as the Industry 4.0 programme in the implementation of the Irinyi Plan, and we have launched and will continue the supplier development programme next year, which will support Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen, The government will continue to provide the central budgetary resources needed to finance municipalities next year, where general principles are set out to support, inter alia, families and increase living standards. In 2013, the government created the possibility of effectively organising tasks, rethinking the division of tasks between the state and the local government. At the same time, the State has fully assumed the debt accumulated by local authorities over the past decades. As the six-year wage agreement concluded in November last year also concerns local governments, the government provides assistance and budget support for the payment of increased wage burdens. Thus, local authorities do not remain on their own now, predictability and stability remain an important aspect here as well, by maintaining a system of responsibilities-related support and by facilitating management without operational deficits. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Support for rural settlements is essential for economic and social inclusion. In addition to EU funds, we are making more and more domestic resources available for development purposes, especially where the former are not available or are limited. In the spirit of this, the government will continue to support the development of children's meals and dining rooms in 2018, as well as the development of a new mini-cradle in the small children's care system and the implementation of other mandatory municipal tasks. I have to note here that next year the budget will support children's meals by HUF 5.4 billion and by HUF 47.2 billion more than 2010 so that every child in need can get a high-quality meal from daycare to school in Hungary, and every child in need can get warm food at least once a day during school holidays. In order for the coming years and decades to be successful, particular attention must continue to be paid to the proper education and care of the young generation, as the future will be based on the next generation. In 2018, there will be significant additional resources for the operation of the transformative nursery system. From 2017 the day-to-day care of children also became mandatory in smaller settlements, if required. This measure is fully in line with the support of children in addition to work, thus increasing women's participation in the labour market. All in all, municipalities will be able to manage nearly HUF 2940 billion in the following year without a loan source. For this, the central budget provides more than HUF 695 billion in support. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, let me talk about the two most important sub-schemes, the management of the Pension and Health Insurance Funds. The budget of the Pension Insurance Fund will remain balanced next year. As a result of economic growth and increasing employment, the combined tax and contribution revenues of the Pension Insurance Fund exceed HUF 141.5 billion this year. The government will continue to protect the purchasing power of pensions next year, so benefits will increase by 3 percent by 2018 in line with the current legislation. Since the rate of pension increases in recent years exceeded inflation, the real value of pensions has increased by more than 10 percent since 2010. This means that the civil government, incorporated into the amount of pension benefits, has practically returned to pensioners the amount of the 13th month pension taken by socialist governments. [[8.40]] The amount of pension expenditure for 2018 amounts to 8.3 percent of gross domestic product. In view of the planned growth rate of gross domestic product, pension premium may be paid in 2018 if the general government balance target is met. The government has allocated HUF 32 billion as a provision in the Pension Insurance Fund. In addition to retirement pensions for those above age, the role of women in the family is also paid special attention by the government, and we still want to ensure that women with a 40-year eligibility period can benefit from or cover retirement age. If the expenditure of the Pension Insurance Fund were greater than that of: In order to ensure a budgetary balance, the planned revenues will be compensated by central budget support. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the Health Insurance Fund, the 2018 budget also estimates a balance between revenue and expenditure, similar to previous years. Most of the Fund's revenues, more than 69 percent, are contributions and contributions, and the rest are budgetary contributions and other revenue. The Fund has two key expenditures: financial and health insurance benefits in kind. Within all expenditures, the former represents some 28 percent and the latter 70 percent. The highest amount of cash benefits is invalidity and rehabilitation benefits. In addition, baby care and childcare fees and sick pay are of a significant magnitude. The most important of the benefits in kind is the curative-preventive care. Compared to the 2017 appropriations adjusted by redeployment of the wage increase and taking into account the reduction of the social contribution tax, the additional resource to be used for this purpose will be HUF 80 billion. A significant part of this is intended to further cover the start of wage increases by health workers, workers and doctors. The additional resources for 2018 will also ensure that employees in the National Rescue Service staff continue to raise wages as the first step of the career programme and improve the wage situation of the women in charge. This appropriation is also intended to cover the development of basic supply and public health, the replacement, procurement and capacity-building of high-value, well-defined medicines, equipment. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Lords of the President, In keeping with the legal guarantees, the Government sent the bill to the Budget Council and the State Audit Office for its opinion. The Budget Council declared the document credible, enforceable and well-founded. The thoroughness of the planning proves that there was no fundamental objection that the Council would have challenged the submission of the bill. The opinions of the Budget Council and the State Audit Office contribute to the adoption by Parliament of a bill of high quality in all respects. Allow me to express my thanks to the Presidents and their colleagues for their work in the control of the bill. Dear Parliament, The budget for 2018 is well-known as the budget for those living in work. Continued tax reductions, broadening family policy measures, wage raising programmes and encouraging investment are all designed to help everyone move forward in their own lives next year. Next year, we will be spending more on supporting families and children, creating jobs and keeping the workforce, continuing careers, preserving the real value of pensions, and, not least, developing the economy and protecting the borders of our country. We are doing this on our own, without borrowing, and we are creating this resource from economic growth that has been going on since 2013 above the EU average. We still have a lot to do to consolidate civil Hungary in the long term, but our results speak for themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, That is why I ask you to discuss and accept the bill on the 2018 budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-17-4	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to ask President László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, to make his speech from here on the stand. Mr. President, I salute you. I'm gonna wait for him to take over. Thank you. You have the floor, please.
u2017-05-17-5	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary of State! Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, This House has been faced with the third proposal for a budget law since 2016, which is due in spring, and since 1990 the 28th, on which the State Audit Office has given its opinion, has complied with its statutory obligation. The three years are enough to allow us to assess the draft budget in terms of complexity. For the first time this year, together with the draft budget law, the draft law establishing the budget was available for the opinion of the State Audit Office, such as the bill amending certain tax laws and other related laws, as well as the bill on the basis of Hungary's budget for 2018. The amendment of the 2017 Central Budget Act also provided a background for the assessment of budgetary developments. The structure of the proposed budget law for 2018 retained the threefold breakdown of appropriations for the first time in last year's planning, i.e. the domestic operating, domestic stockpiling and EU development budgets, which, like last year, we consider to be an important step forward in terms of budget transparency and welcome. Spring budget planning contributes to predictability, but also allows the government to correct if necessary in the light of macroeconomic developments in Hungary. The State Audit Office delivered its opinion on the basis of the new methodology introduced in 2014. The focus of this methodology, if I want to sum up briefly, is on the soundness and feasibility of revenue, support for expenditure and compliance with legislation. This assessment of revenue and expenditure appropriations will be selected on a materiality and risk basis, while ensuring that the revenue and expenditure appropriations selected reach 80% of the total revenue and expenditure of the bill. For the appropriations included in the bill on the 2018 budget, the evaluation shall cover more than 88 per cent of the total revenue and 80 per cent of the total expenditure. On the basis of our pre-defined methodology, we have examined the compliance of the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2018, the compliance with the regulations, the implementation of revenue and expenditure estimates, the soundness and support of the planned appropriations, and the application of the government debt rule of the Fundamental Law and the Stability Act. As a result of the joint evaluation of all these components, we are expressing an opinion on the merits of the draft budget law, while drawing attention to the identified risks and shortcomings so that they can be addressed effectively and in a timely manner. I think it is important to emphasise that in its opinion, the Court of Auditors declares a particular state of budgetary planning. The aim of our opinion is to contribute to Parliament's adoption of a well-founded budget, which is capable of addressing the risks arising from the adoption of yet missing laws or amendments. In its opinion, the SAO contributes to the transparency of budgetary processes. To do this, we have recorded our findings in the Court of Auditors' report on the new format already applied by the State Audit Office last year In the new format, we give an opinion on the merits, the feasibility and the regularity of the planning of the appropriations in question, and we draw attention to the risks. [[8.50]] Dear Parliament, In the opinion of the State Court of Auditors, the draft law on the central budget for 2018 is well founded, and revenue appropriations can be met if macroeconomic forecasts are taken into account in the budget planning. The bill complies with the government debt rule laid down in the Fundamental Law and, with the exception of one requirement, with the legislation on the budget. In its opinion, the State Audit Office points out that the proposed budget law for 2018 contributes to maintaining Hungary's budgetary stability. The SAO concluded that the preparation and content of Hungary's central budget bill for 2018 comply with the legal requirements and, with one exception, in its planning, compliance with the rules on deficit and government debt. The draft budget law of 2018 identifies the lack of a central subsystem in HUF 1360.7 billion, which consists of a planned deficit of HUF 857.3 billion in the domestic stockpiling budget and HUF 503,4 billion in the European Union's development budget. The general government deficit will be 2.9 percent of GDP as proposed by the Budget Act. Based on this, the lack of government sector according to the EU methodology is the projected gross domestic product, which is HUF 40 353 billion, and 2.4 percent of the expected GDP. This remains below the 3 per cent specified in the Economic Stability Act, thus complying with this requirement. The deficit according to the 2.4 per cent EU methodology corresponds to a 2.4 per cent structural balance as explained in the Budgetary Act proposal. In order to meet the budget targets for 2018, it creates an appropriate condition that a deficit of 3,1 per cent of the draft law on the 2017 budget and 2.4 per cent of GDP according to the EU methodology is expected to be met. At the same time, it cannot be excluded that macroeconomic developments would be less favourable than anticipated in 2018, so our sensitivity study aimed at ensuring that the deficit calculated according to the EU methodology meets the condition set out in the Stability Act in the event of a change in conditions. The results of the study show that the 3 percent requirement would not be met if the deficit increased by an additional HUF 242.2 billion in excess of the planned GDP growth. The deficit target set out in the draft budget law for 2018 therefore complies with the 3 per cent requirement laid down in the Act on Economic Stability. However, the State Audit Office also concluded that the planned 2.4 percent structural balance of the government sector for 2018 is not in line with the government's medium-term deficit target of 1.5 per cent in 2018, despite the Stability Act. However, the lack of consistency is not subject to a sanction, so it does not pose a risk to the enforceability of the budget. The achievement of the medium-term deficit target will therefore need to be stepped up in the planning and implementation of the budgets of the coming years. According to the data of the bill, the government debt-to-GDP ratio will be reduced to 69.5 per cent by the end of 2015, with a decrease of 1.9 percentage points compared to 71.4 per cent expected on the last day of 2017. The value of the indicator thus complies with Article 36 of the Fundamental Law and Article 4 of the Stability Act. The requirements for the reduction provided for in paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the 2018 Budget Act are met, and therefore the criterion is met. The sovereign debt ratio also complies with the European Union's debt rule, as the sovereign debt ratio exceeds 60% of GDP, its rate of decline must comply with the so-called "one-sixth rule'. This requirement represents a reduction of 0.7 per cent for Hungary, which is also met with the planned decrease of 1.9 per cent. In the opinion of the State Court of Auditors, the improved trend in the sovereign debt indicator represents an additional room for manoeuvre for the Hungarian budget, and the decline in the level of indebtedness creates the opportunity to implement measures to achieve economic development and other social objectives. The implementation of the 2018 Budget Act is fundamentally influenced by the fulfilment of the macroeconomic projections considered to be relevant in the planning process. This is why the availability of a sufficient implicit reserve to avoid macroeconomic risks is of particular importance. We have also carried out a sensitivity assessment of the sovereign debt indicator in terms of the scope of the projections for the components of the sovereign debt indicator, while complying with the sovereign debt rule. Using the 71.4 per cent of the sovereign debt ratio projected by the end of this year and 69.5 per cent forecast by the end of 2018, it was concluded that the sovereign debt rule would not be met if the government debt increased by an additional HUF 768.4 billion in excess of the projected GDP growth or if real GDP growth did not reach 1.9 per cent in addition to the planned government debt. However, all economic analysts indicate a growth of more than 1.9 for Hungary. The appropriations for the draft budget law for 2018 are well-founded and revenue estimates can be achieved. 100 per cent of the revenue appropriations audited, 90,6 per cent of the expenditure appropriations are sound, 8.68 per cent of the expenditure is partially justified and 0.7 per cent of the expenditure is not justified. Let us consider in detail what is behind what has been said. Organisations responsible for the design of chapters have acted in the planning process taking into account the criteria published by the Public Finance Act, its Implementing Regulation and the relevant provisions of sectoral legislation in respect of certain chapters and the Minister for Public Finance. The structure and content of the bill comply with the legal requirements, thus fulfilling the basic requirement of responsible budgetary management. The basic requirements are laid down in the Fundamental Law and the Public Finance Act when it provides for the principles of legality, expediency, effectiveness, efficiency and transparency in the management of public funds. The Ministry of National Economy, in its planning prospectus setting out the conditions and requirements for drawing up the bill, has also required chapter owners to present the criteria for the effective and efficient use of public funds by purpose, which is in line with the Fundamental Law and the Public Finance Act. However, based on our audit experience, we must say that this alone will not be enough; it is necessary to monitor the implementation of these performance criteria and to monitor them regularly by the managing bodies. A positive risk has been found in the budget for two revenue appropriations, both for excise duty and for personal income tax, which represents a major part of retail payments. The State Audit Office is forecasting an excess of HUF 16 billion in the two revenue allocations. In the planning of direct revenue appropriations representing a significant proportion of the central subsystem, the economic forecasts for macroeconomic indicators, structural changes and their design were taken into account by supporting calculations and justifications. In our view, if the government's macroeconomic forecasts are met, the fulfilment of the projected tax revenues overall does not pose a risk. That's the first time in seven years we've said that. The Court of Auditors identified a negative risk during the budgetary examination for certain expenditure appropriations. On the basis of our public methodology, we say that it is partly well-founded and that we consider the planning of spending of HUF 116.5 billion to be unsubstantiated. In view of this, we predicted overachievement and overspending compared to the planned amount of HUF 107 billion. I would like to highlight the most important of these. On the one hand, an estimate of animal, plant and GMO compensation from the Ministry of Agriculture was found to be unsubstantiated based on previous years and expected performance data in 2017. In its planning, no account was taken of the provision of the planning prospectus for appropriations opened from above. [[9.00]] At the Ministry of National Development, on the one hand, we see an over-spend for the expenditure of litigation cases where, in the event of a possible loss of court, no cover is now available; furthermore, for the cost of public passenger services by bus in the same chapter, the available resources do not provide full coverage for the performance of the public service. This design error has already been identified in the case of our opinion in 2017. In our view, there is a significant risk for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade's investment promotion target in terms of the completed payment plan for previous years and the ongoing commitments that this target is not supported, it is expected that there will be an excess overpayment if real needs and programmes are taken into account. At the National Employment Fund, the expenditure allocation for the Start Work Programme is partially justified as the cost calculations have not been prepared during the planning process. Appropriate documents are not available for the sale of sovereign debt or for the additional financing of indirect subsidies in the film industry for expenditure appropriations, but appropriations are expected to be sufficient to cover expenditure. On page 51 of our delivered opinion, we have detailed figures for this total expenditure allocation of 12 chapters. It is worth mentioning that out of the 10 appropriations entered here, 10 appropriations may depart from the appropriations without amendment, i.e. they are open from above. Allow me to point out once again, in this context, this budgetary planning solution, which I have already mentioned separately in the accounts for the closure of the 15th, once again, to the budgetary dangers of appropriations opened from above, as they represent almost 49 percent of the total expenditure for 2018. Due to high rates and unapproved expenditure, it will be essential to take into account the aspects of sound and efficient budgetary management in implementation. Measures to whiten the economy, which were already launched in 2017, are essential for the security of the management of the central budget, and this is reflected in the draft budget law for 2018. These include the Strategic Renewal of the just launched in 17 years, the planned introduction of the online billing system for the growth of general traffic revenues for next year, the 18th year's reduction of the key to consumer-traffic taxes. These measures are an important tool for whitening revenues and incomes and thus for fulfilling the tax revenue projections for 18 years. The fact that, under more favourable tax conditions, taxation is expected to be higher is also a factor determining the amount of tax revenue received. In the case of corporate tax, it has been found that a lower tax rate in the regional comparison may affect the corporate tax decisions of companies, which is reflected in the increase in the number of taxpayers and the increase in the aggregate tax base. However, this change has not yet been taken into account in the budget planning for the year 18. In addition, no further expansion of the stretches of roads that may be used for the payment of a fee in the planning of the toll proportional to the journey carried has been taken. The feasibility of the budget is supported by strategic reserves and implicit reserves. The planned reserves in the draft budget law amount to more than HUF 250 billion, but of this so-called "free use reserve" can be considered as the National Defence Fund, since the provisions are already assigned to other specific tasks. In our opinion, the resources available in the National Defence Fund provide sufficient security to prevent the current budgetary risks. During our opinion, we also took into account the implicit reserve. On the basis of a sensitivity test, it has been established that it is a kind of security to comply with the requirements of the Economic Stability Act in the event of any adverse economic or budgetary developments. Dear House, While, in previous years, revenue from EU funds was in line with the appropriations for the expenditure of the EU programmes in accordance with Article 19 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. EU developments within the heading, until then in the 2018 design scheme, they are already united in the XLII. They appear in Chapter 1. This design solution supports implementation. The advantage of this method is that expenditure financed from the EU development budget can be decoupled from the rate of arrival of EU revenue. In order to fulfil the European Union's resources foreseen in the 2018 budget, the process of .17 will be decisive. By the end of March this year, the government announced proposals at a rate of 4 per cent higher than the indicative framework available for the 2014-2020 EU budget cycle, so that 100 per cent of EU funds could be called later. Their primary objective is to increase the share of aid for economic development, thereby improving the competitiveness of businesses. In our investigation, we identified two potential risk factors for EU funds. On the one hand, if the use of EU development resources does not reach the planned level of expenditure, i.e. less investment has started, this could have a negative impact on economic growth. A declining pace of economic development could reduce budgetary revenues, thereby leading to an increase in cash flow deficits. At the same time, lower performance of EU expenditure compared to planned could improve the cash flow deficit in . 18 through support mechanisms. On the other hand, the delay in the clearance of subsidies to the European Commission poses an additional risk for the budget, as EU revenue will have to be advanced from its own resources. The amount of aid to be paid, higher than planned, will negatively affect the cash flow deficit. The underachievement of the planned expenditure for the 18th budget is the major risk factor, but it is of the utmost importance for the prevention of both risk factors that projects be prepared as far as possible for the announced funding sources, and it is essential to ensure a conscious implementation of the EU development budget and to take interim measures in case of failure to comply with the draft. In line with the convergence programme, the government projected an economic growth of 4.3 per cent in the draft budget law. This represents a growth rate of 0.2 per cent higher than the planned economic growth of 17 per cent. This expansion rate is slightly higher than the expectations of experts, which currently range between 2,2% and 3,7 percent in terms of the current size of 18. Economic growth is based on an increase in income at the disposal of the population, its impact on consumption, and on the positive news that the planned increase in gross fixed capital formation of 12.9 percent is also reflected in the budget. Dear House, The use of EU funds and the growth of household investment activity, in particular as a result of the introduction of a family home-building discount, commonly known as CSOK, in January 16, play a key role in the recovery of investment indicators. In 16 the number of building permits and housing applications increased by two and a half times compared to previous years. At the same time, housing subsidies provided by the government have a significant impact on the development and general characteristics of the housing market. When granting aid, the State will generate an increase in demand in the real estate market. At the same time, this increase in demand should take into account the relatively slow responsiveness of the housing supply so that it does not result in excessive price increases in real estate. With the overheating of housing market processes, the government can start a bubble in the real estate market. This is why it is important to use this type of aid in a thoughtful and conscious way, to consciously influence and regulate the state's role in the real estate market. A 3-percent inflation rate and a 10.4 per cent increase in gross wage and earnings both in the private and government sectors, as well as an 8.8 per cent increase in gross earnings, were reported in the budget planning. This is very positive for employees and is in line with labour market processes and low levels of unemployment. [[9.10]] As regards wage growth, wage agreements, career plans and other wage growth measures are of particular importance. The increase in household demand by wage increases is certainly important for balanced economic growth. At the same time, it is necessary to take into account that wage-raising measures in different sectors or jobs also have a kind of inertia, government wage agreements generate additional needs among the representatives of the respective jobs and related areas. A good example is law enforcement, health care or social benefits. General wage increases have a number of positive effects, but fiscal risks in the medium to long term should not be forgotten. It is important that additional public money payments also lead to improvements in performance, i.e. results and efficiency, which should lead to new circumstances, other technologies and renewed state management. We believe that, as in the case of housing market incentives, there is a need for conscious and government attention that can address the expected effects. However, there are also risks of wage and earnings growth in the private and government sectors. In the event of an increase in demand generated by wage growth, it is particularly important to see how much demand can be met with domestic products and services. The increase in demand may, in adverse cases, increase strongly the value of imports, which may have an impact on the deterioration of current account assets. The increase in demand above supply also affects the rise in inflation rates. It is true that the current account shows a significant positive surplus in recent years, and in 16 it rose to a record size of 5 per cent of GDP, which represents a kind of security reserve for the deterioration of the current account balance due to the accelerated increase in imports. In addition, the State Audit Office examined the three largest government investments in the framework of the opinion of the budget for the year 18: the programme "Modern Cities", the project "Liget Budapest" and the Paks II. A planning risk has been identified for the programme "Modern Cities" as there is no detailed budget plan for the entire implementation period, including the timetable for spending for the implementation period, the value of the planned expenditure related to operational and development tasks in each year, as well as multi-annual budgetary decisions. In connection with the project, we consider it necessary to draw up a budget plan for the entire implementation period, which includes the budgetary impact of each year. In our opinion, we drew attention to the fact that the lack of budget plans for implementing these types of programmes, which contain several years' data, makes it difficult to assess the budgetary impact of priority government programmes and investments. They are financed in several directions, which could jeopardise transparency. In our view, this makes it necessary to modernise project management for major investments in order to make government projects more predictable, transparent and implemented more reliable and to make integrity more conscious. After all, we have seen that overdesigning an investment is just as damaging to the budget as not spending the funds planned for the investment. This is a factor affecting economic growth. In order to achieve these goals safely, the State Audit Office also contributes with its analyses and working papers, to which we can provide professional support. Dear House, During the opinion of the draft law on the central budget for 2018, the State Audit Office concluded that the draft budget for next year will contribute to Hungary's budgetary stability and will also support the sustainable economic growth of Hungary. I wish you a meaningful professional debate for the next few days; I hope that the Court's opinion will also contribute to this. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-17-6	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for keeping the time frame to a maximum. Now, I would like to ask President Árpád Kovács, President of the Fiscal Council, to come to the stand and give his speech. Here you go, Mr. President. We'll wait for the president to arrive on the stand. [[Dr. Árpád Kovács enters the platform.]] Mr. President, you have the floor.
u2017-05-17-7	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. I am honoured to be able to fulfil my obligation to summarise orally and justify the Council's opinion on the draft budget for the sixth year. When drawing up the opinion, as has been the case, we have built on the analyses and findings of the State Court of Auditors and the Hungarian National Bank for the Council. In addition, we have taken into account the evaluations, forecasts of the internationally recognised institutions dealing with the economy, public finances, as well as the projections of independent experts and relevant international organisations. The Council established its opinion on the draft law for the Government at its meeting on 27 April 2017 and published it in a unanimous decision. I will address the substantive response to this in detail later. On the basis of the mandate given by the Fundamental Law, the Fiscal Council examines the bill and its macroeconomic background in its unity, analyses its revenue and expenditure in terms of equilibrium and the fulfilment of the sovereign debt rule, and does not engage in the classification of distribution policy issues. Dear Parliament, The budget planning for the following year will take into account the evolution and results of the processes of the previous year. At the same time as the 2018 budget, the Council also expressed its opinion on the draft amendment to the 2017 Budget Act. In view of the connection to the budgetary processes of next year, please allow me to briefly discuss this. The Council considered the proposed changes to the 2017 expenditure and revenue appropriations justified and justified in view of the more favourable economic conditions and government measures taken following the early spring adoption of the Budget Act last year. On the expenditure side of the budget to increase appropriations, on the new appropriations, the source of the positive development of the tax bases, the substantial improvement of the efficiency of tax collection, the land for farmers! It was created by the revenue of the programme and by the wage agreement concluded in November 2016. The planned amendments will increase expenditure appropriations to a lesser extent than the expected additional resource, leaving resources to increase the allocation of reserves, i.e. the National Defence Fund and extraordinary government measures. In the opinion of the Board, compliance with the sovereign debt rule is ensured. The deficit target of 2.4 per cent of GDP in accordance with the 2017 EU methodology can also be achieved with changes in revenue and expenditure appropriations. On this basis, the Council proposes that, on the basis of the six-month data, the Government should examine the possibility that, should the expected implementations in 2017 allow this to happen, expenditure planned for a certain year should be brought forward, in particular in order to facilitate the achievement of the 2018 deficit target. Investments are already growing rapidly this year. This relates to the recovery of the use of EU funds this year, to a number of major industrial investments, and to the increasing activity of households in building and buying homes. This process could also benefit from the so-called investment preparation fund, as well as the improvement of lending activity, to be established by the simultaneous legislative proposal for public investment. At the same time, the Council considered it important to use the resources available for investment in the long term to generate higher added value; it also noted that, without a sustained increase in private investment driven by the market, government capital formation can only contribute moderately to potential growth. [[9.20]] Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Turning to the draft budget law for 2018, I should note that there is no significant difference between the draft presented by the Council and the bill submitted, and therefore the Council's opinion on the draft applies to the bill. Dear Parliament, Please allow me to start with macroeconomic indicators. The bill expects GDP growth above 4 per cent, similar to the revised year 2017. This is mainly due to household consumption, which is 4.6 percent and gross fixed capital formation, which increases by 12.9 percent, increasing the investment rate to 20 percent. Investment from EU and domestic sources has a significant impact on all of this. It is proposed to further increase employment in the competitive sector and to decrease in the public sector. Continued dynamic wage growth, gross average earnings continue to rise. From the perspective of the prognosis - and this is interesting for the Fiscal Council - it is realistic that the increase in domestic consumption will lead to a dynamic increase in imports. The increase in consumption is also accompanied by a 3-percent increase in consumer prices. The Council considered it necessary to note that the planned 4.3 percent economic growth exceeded the other available domestic and overseas forecasts. In particular, there is a risk for the fulfilment of the expectation of a less favourable development of external circumstances that the dynamics of exports are below the draft. However, I must add to this remark here, as I will say later, that this does not jeopardise the balance of public finances. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In the draft, the appropriations for expenditure and revenue, with a few exceptions, are consistent with the expected implementation of the appropriations for the base year and with the government's macroeconomic projections for 2018. Within the revenues of the central subsystem, labour taxes reflect the expected labour market processes, the effects of the already mentioned wage agreement in November 2016 and the continuing rise in wages through government career models, government measures to strengthen employment activity. The increase in real estate traffic can also lead to a significant increase in tax revenues. The corporate tax estimate reflects the single rate of taxation and the decreasing level of revenue from the growth tax credit, but it is not expected that the tax reduction will have an impact on the tax base. The increase in the overall turnover tax appropriation is mainly based on further increase in consumption, rising consumer prices and improving compliance. The bill takes into account the reduction of VAT on the Internet, restaurant services and fish and the use of corporate tax benefits. It simplifies the rental of real estate by abolishing the health contribution tax on the proceeds, which can contribute to the whitening of the activity. In order to facilitate compliance with the planned tax and contribution revenues, the Council considered it necessary to continue measures to reduce the grey economy and increase the efficiency of tax collection in 2018. In addition, the Council identified a risk in relation to an increase higher than the consensus forecast that the revenue appropriations could be met. In particular, the Council saw revenue from VAT, personal income tax and social contribution tax as sensitive to macroeconomic developments, including the development of earnings and consumption. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the opinion of the Council, the resources envisaged in the budget on the expenditure side will enable a number of social and economic objectives to be achieved. For these, resources are available for the continuation of the home creation programme. I would like to mention that the Council has indicated here that, in the event of a high level of utilisation of the programme, the needs could significantly exceed the planned appropriations. Budget instruments are also provided for the operation of a changed support system for the day-to-day care of children, which also helps women to return to the labour market. Coverage provided for measures to support employment growth and return to the primary labour market. The real value of pensions and some benefits can be preserved from the planned sources, and pensioners can also benefit from the results of accelerating economic growth. The pension forecast includes the statutory pension premium calculated on the basis of GDP growth and the increase in the amount of new pension statements in relation to the dynamic wage increase in recent years. Resources have ensured that the career program continues with teachers, law enforcement and defence workers, district and county government offices and employees of the National Tax and Customs Office. Additional wage increases may be granted to health professionals and staff in the National Rescue Service. Developments that modernise rural cities, enhance competitiveness, cultural attractiveness and improve quality of life can be made in the framework of the Modern Cities programme. Many higher education projects, national strategy and economic development support are included in the 2018 budget. Dear Parliament, It should be pointed out that, by strengthening the processes in 2017, the priority of the maximum rate of use of resources in the EU programmes appears in the bill in order to make development resources available to beneficiaries as soon as possible. At the same time, the Council considers that it is necessary to ensure that they are targeted, that efficiency and performance requirements are better enforced and that the necessary measures are taken as soon as possible. In addition to EU funds, the Council considered that investments and renovations could be launched from domestic sources and grants in a number of areas in 2018. In summary, the Council considered the expenditure appropriations following legislative and other specificities to be realisticly planned. At the same time, it considered the growth rate of expenditure related to individual decisions to be high, and here, based on the experience of recent years, we see feasibility risks, especially in the delivery of EU-funded appropriations. The Council supports the fact that the bill once again constitutes a number of regulated reserves to prevent unforeseen risks. In 2018, both within public finances and in relation to GDP, defence and health expenditures will increase slightly. The Council considered, as a basis for the development of later years, that, through the implementation of the related priorities described above, the proportion of economic expenditure gradually increased by around 7 percentage points over the last six years will continue to be high in 2018, above 21 per cent. It is also beneficial that interest expenditure is further reduced as a result of the maintenance of the current low yield level. [[9.30]] Dear Parliament, The general government deficit target, more specifically the deficit of the government sector, calculated according to the EU methodology, was planned for 2018, equal to 2.4 percent of GDP in 2017. The achievement of the deficit target assumes the development of revenue in line with the macro-track of the Finance Act. Overall, the $200 billion reserve will provide security to meet constitutional and EU requirements. In order to keep the balance, the three members of the Council considered it necessary to set the planned level of the National Defence Fund and agreed that it should be used only if the criteria set out in the bill were met. The Council welcomed the continuation of the practice of separate operating, stockpiling and EU budgets in the bill and the balance of the operational part is zero. The Council noted that the same level of deficit as in the previous year has the result that the so-called structural balance of public finances, which has been cleared from the cyclical effects of the economy and from individual items, is not improving. According to the explanatory memorandum of the bill, the deficit target of 2.4 per cent in 2018 could be met by a structural deficit of the same degree. However, the European Union's structural deficit criterion, which does not lead to an excessive deficit procedure, and this dormant requirement of the Stability Act, requires that the balance be determined in such a way that it is consistent with the achievement of the medium-term planning objective, which would be 1.5 per cent of GDP for Hungary in 2018. The Council therefore considered it appropriate for the government to demonstrate how it intends to meet this requirement in the coming years. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Council noted that the planned nominal increase in government debt was consistent with the planned cash flow deficit of the central budget. However, the rate of growth is significantly below the planned rate of nominal GDP growth. As a result, the government debt-to-GDP ratio will be reduced to such an extent that the sovereign debt ratio under the Stability Act is expected to fall from 71.4 per cent to below 70 per cent, and this reduction not only meets the requirement of the Fundamental Law, but in recent years we have reached for the first time the magical limit that represents a figure below 70 per cent in the reduction in debt. Dear Parliament, The Council's findings can be summarised as reflecting financial stability. The macroeconomic indicators taken into account in the planning exercise are high, and the revenue planned accordingly carries a certain risk of achieving them. In the opinion of the Council, however, compliance with the sovereign debt rule is not at risk even if the scale of economic growth is perhaps somewhat more modest than it was considered to be a starting point in the budget. The planned reduction in the sovereign debt ratio will significantly, let us say, exceed the amount of 0.1 percentage points resulting from the Stability Act, while complying with the Union's technical, so-called one-hundred-year regulation on the reduction of government debt. Dear Parliament, A detailed government response to the opinion of the Fiscal Council has also been delivered this time. Please allow me to comment briefly on that, too. The Council's proposal for caution in the use of reserves in order to meet the deficit target and the reduction of the public debt ratio is considered to be in line with the proposal for a budget law submitted by the Government. The Council's comment on the under-planning of housing subsidies is the government's view that the amount allocated for this purpose will account for the rise in consumption and the dynamic increase in the housing savings bank's payments. At the same time, the stock of runway subsidies and the return on interest-supported schemes are constantly decreasing. The housing support appropriation is open from above, so it can address dynamically rising needs. At the same time, according to the government, the increase in housing subsidies above the planned level implies a higher volume of housing investment. Thus, the government considers that the direct negative budgetary impact of the possible overrun of the appropriations may be partially offset by the indirect positive budgetary impact. With regard to the Council's comment on the effect on the reduction of corporate tax appropriations, which increased its tax base, the Government's view was that it could only have a longer-term leverage effect and therefore not enforce it in 2018. The government, in agreement with the KT's opinion, is implementing more measures to improve tax collection efficiency. For example, the e-invoice system of businesses could not only result in the simplification of corporate administration, but also in the whitening of transactions and thus the increase in public revenues. I believe that the steps set out in the new strategy of the national tax authority can contribute to further increasing public revenue. The Council's position that the growth rate of individual spending is high and that these can be achieved at the risk of implementation, the government replied that it had put a great deal of effort into planning that only appropriations would be included in the draft budget law that could be realisticly achieved in 2018. The government grants authorisation for commitments beyond the year in all cases where the appropriations will be used in the years following the reference year and will not provide budget appropriations for the year. As a result, it can be facilitated by its view that expenditure planning is tighter and more accurate than before. The Council also asked in its decision to demonstrate how the government intends to meet the European Union's so-called structural deficit criterion and the non-binding requirement of the Stability Act. According to the government, it is necessary to maintain a high structural deficit because it supports economic growth and makes it possible to implement economic and social policy priorities. At the same time, the government intends to reach the medium-term budgetary target again in 2020 and to achieve it in 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Finally, I would like to thank the Minister of National Economy, Mr State Secretary and his colleagues for their far-reaching support for our work. During preparatory work and planning conditions with a higher pace than in previous years, the Council was also encouraged to prepare its opinion by carrying out meaningful analyses. I would also like to thank the staff of the State Audit Office, the Hungarian National Bank and the Secretariat of the Council, the analysts invited, and experts of certain economic institutions for supporting our opinion with independent, alternative macroeconomic model calculations and sensitivity tests. Dear Parliament, Thanking you for your attention, I wish you good work in discussing the proposal of the Budget Act and the related amendments. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-05-17-8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. [[9.40]] During the discussion of the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2018, the Vice-Presidents of Parliament also wish to participate in the debate. In the event of their opposition, the Vice-Presidents may chair the Parliament's meeting only in the course of further negotiations of the independent motion if the Parliament agrees in advance. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that Sándor Lezsák, István Jakab, István Hiller, Vice-President Tamás Sneider and myself will be able to lead the meeting of the Parliament during the further discussion of the presentation. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much, that's a visible majority. I find that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my proposal. Dear Parliament, The speech will now take place in a 30-30-minute time frame. In the meantime, a two-minute speech is not possible. The Fidesz Group indicated that the group's position was presented by three of its speakers. Accordingly, I give the floor first to Mr Lajos Kósa. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor. We'll wait for the leader of the faction to get up on the platform. Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor, please.
u2017-05-17-9	Mr. President. Dear House, This budget is the last budget that we will adopt in this cycle, so it is appropriate to look back a little bit on where we started in 2010 and how the management of the Hungarian state has come to an end, how the implementation of the budgets has taken place. We know that in 2010, the country was in a catastrophic state. We could describe it with one sentence: the situation of Hungary was similar to that of Greece; there was a direct state failure. The budget was taken over by a hole of HUF 600 billion and threatened, which was later paid back to the European Union for HUF 250 billion. Employment has been at a low level; economic performance has been at a low level; and for years now, not only economic performance has decreased, but real wages have also decreased. From here, we had to draw a budget path and an economic path in some way. Today, we can say that when we said our main goals in 2010, it was really hard to believe. We have said that the allocation-based public finance logic is wrong for Hungary and that it is only work-based and growth-based, performance-based economic policy and fiscal policy that is acceptable to us. In addition, we have said that we need to change the solution or the thinking that for years the concepts of the budget have dominated the most important social policy debates, which, by the way, are completely incomprehensible to millions of people. Let us remember: deficit target, budgetary funds open from above - they were all for distribution - and how we try to patch the holes in the budget with the various austerity packages. We said that, of course, budgeting, managing the state is a key issue, and, of course, it requires concepts such as GDP and deficit, but Hungarian society is basically not a budgetary society. Hungarian society is a living tissue, a living community that has very important goals and aspirations far beyond the budget, far beyond the annual financial debates. This is where we formulated our vision of social policy. We said that one of the most important medium-term problems of Hungarian society is the demographic problem, that the Hungarian population is losing weight. If we can't change that, then whatever kind of chic budget we put together - I note that demographic processes have an impact here too, whether we think of something as simple as the public transport price supplement system or the consumer price support system - so if we can't find a solution to this in some way, our efforts will disappear in the medium term. That is why we said that the budgetary logic should be replaced a little by the logic of looking at what is the most important interest of Hungarian society, what we would like to achieve together, and to plan for this, not vice versa, to try to achieve the budgetary objectives by raping Hungarian society. Then the family support system, the family tax system in taxation, the introduction of a straight tax, the change in tax policy from income-type taxes to consumption tax, the balancing of the tax burden, so that was what we had translated into a budget. And last but not least, we said that all of this was in vain without safety. Without the safety of families, the security of everyday life, the security of the country, our efforts are quite simply... Thinking of something in a New Yorker's study, a speculator, snaps his fingers, and the Hungarian public finances are shorted, we fail, say the Hungarian families fail half their savings. We've had this before. We remember it. György Soros was banned from London and England because, by the way, he destroyed millions of British families and shorted the forint. There was an experiment here, not just György Soros, no misunderstanding, and we always talked about it, we heard lectures and speeches about the fact that Hungarian public finances are extremely vulnerable, the financing of the Hungarian budget is extremely vulnerable, the country is not safe. We started from here in 2010, and now, in 2017, when we adopt our last budget before the election, we can report very, very important results. Most importantly, I believe that it has been achieved by active budgetary instruments and active employment policy instruments that employment has increased by 700 thousand. The employment has increased by 700,000! Of course, it's not an absolute number either, you have to look behind it. We know that the number of people working in the public sector should be further reduced. The majority of these 700 thousand new jobs are already market jobs, so they were created in the competition sector, but we know that, as useful was the system of public works when we started them, when 3,3 to 3,4 million people worked and gave them opportunities and jobs, we have to reevaluate the system, because of course - I think everyone has read the macro-tanbooks - there is a displacement mechanism, not only in the money market, there is a displacement mechanism here, where, indeed, in certain sectors working in the competitive sector, there has been an adjustment in the economy in relation to the displacement effect of public work that is not right, and this has to be corrected constantly. But watching it in itself... - of course, there are always problems, but we have managed to transform the Hungarian economy and Hungarian society into a work-based society in thinking as well. How does that change in thinking? We remember that Tisalok was protested for public work to the greatest shock of the Tisalök, the outgoing newscast, because there were always aid-based debates in the city, and now they protested for the maintenance of the public works system. This is a small thing, but it indicates that there has been a huge change in thinking and mentality. And when we said in 2010 that there were ten million of us and we needed a million new jobs, that was an incredible number. It was an incredible song. And look at where we are now, pro rata time. That's a huge achievement. It has been a great achievement to say that, with the introduction of the family support system, we have been able to help almost all families in the European Union by introducing and maintaining the most abundant family support system. There are families, of course, whose crisis is not a social policy issue, but a guardianship issue. There, of course, there must be other means to act, but the vast majority of families through our foreign exchange credit action plan, and how we were able to save that 900 thousand foreign currency loaners from direct bankruptcy - which, by the way, can be tolerated in the economy and in the financial intermediary system - that family tax incentives, the home support system, the various social policy and family policy instruments that specifically support women, with countless novums and innovations... - no doubt this is quite shocking in macro numbers, because no one among the demographers believed that the number of children per person, a parent, could change in seven years, from 1,28 to 1,48. [[9.50]] This is still little, let there be no misunderstanding, Hungarian society is still running out, but these eight years have proved better than the sun that it is not true that there is nothing we can do here, there is no political means here, this is a plague that we cannot help. And all the budgets, this is also the current one, the 18-year-old, of course, will continue to support this most important objective, that employment should be increased, and that families should continue to be highly supportive communities of Hungarian society. Thirdly, I would like to talk about security, because there is not only a migration threat, which was not yet in 2010, but there is also the threat that we have always feared, that, oh, someone is shorting Hungary, then what will happen is that we can be destroyed. This was said discreetly and charmingly, that Hungarian public finances are extremely vulnerable. We've had a huge breakthrough here, too. Remember, in 2010, an unstoppable increase in external government debt was accompanied by a financing structure in which foreign financiers were in the majority, compared to domestics, and the population, with the savings of the most convenient and safest financiers in the budget, was below 10% in total funding. Today, the population is 30%, and today 26 percent of Hungary's government debt is financed abroad. Other domestic or foreign exchange domestic or Hungarian institutional investors. In Hungarian, the greatest achievement in creating financial security was, after all, that in the case of a country that was indebted to the extremes and otherwise classified as a bóvli, which was Hungary in 2010, we were able to reverse it. Of course, you can ask if there are miracles. Of course, there are no miracles. It takes 10 million Hungarians, who are persistently working. It requires a political system that takes on the conflicts that, if you remember, in 2010, Peter Szijjártó expressed, or I myself, that, in this crisis, measures must be taken to remove the limits of economic constitutionality: private pension fund, foreign currency debt. We can remember a lot of instruments on which we had the sharpest legal debates on whether or not this would fit into economic policy. But we said if the ship is sinking, if we're fighting for our lives, we're gonna have to get on with it. And to do so, we needed a political support that Fidesz and KDNP gave to the Hungarian government, and we needed a permanent government under the leadership of Viktor Orbán, which bravely fought every storm, won every battle in this case, and today he can say to the Union that it is a kind Union, I am sorry, we did not take your advice, either to Brussels or to the IMF, but I report the Hungarian miracle with this budget. Look at the macro path, the macro numbers, we've heard the risks - there's always a risk in the economy - but they're completely manageable, the growth rate, the inflation rate, the debt path. I must say that 10 million Hungarians in eight years - no one believed it, but they did - performed a miracle. This budget is a continuation of this path. The Fidesz-KDNP fraction, I can safely say, stands up for the Hungarian government's economic and budgetary policy and wants to maintain the alliance with the voters, which is the guarantee that this will continue like this. We saw what the socialists could do to the country in eight years. We shouldn't try again. I call on Parliament, especially the pro-government groups, to support, of course, the economic policy and budgetary policy that has achieved these results, in a debate, with budgetary amendments, but in principle. To do this, I wish everyone a very good debate and work, and I ask that they support the budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-17-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, The keynote speech of the Fidesz Group will be continued by Mr Erik Bánki. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-17-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and Gentlemen, Allow me to begin with a quote and quote Vince Lombardi, one of the most successful coaches in the American football league. He said that the dictionary is the only place where the result precedes the work. We couldn't have kept it here either, we couldn't have stood in this pulpit, and we couldn't have supported the government in terms of the budget submitted for 2018, if in 2010 we had joined forces with the Hungarian people, the various groups of Hungarian society, the actors of the Hungarian economy, we couldn't have saved Hungary from the crisis, we couldn't have saved the situation of bankruptcy, and we couldn't have achieved an economic policy turn, thanks to which we set the Hungarian economy on a growing path from 2013 onwards, and all our economic analysts and opponents now acknowledge that the Hungarian economic policy, the Hungarian road we have set ourselves, was indeed successful. This is why we have been able to submit a budget, the first of which is perhaps the creation and protection of Hungarian jobs and the support of Hungarian people. The first step of the civilian government that took office in 2010 was to give people jobs, to launch a policy, as Mr Lajos Kósa said, which will enable us to create a million new jobs in ten years. Then, here in this room and among our outside opponents, this commitment has become quite clear. We are now there, ladies and gentlemen, that we have fulfilled our commitment on a pro rata basis, as we have created more than 700 thousand new jobs, with the number of Hungarian workers above 4 million 350 thousand, which has not occurred in any case since 1990. The unemployment rate has fallen from 11.4 per cent in 2010 to 4.5 per cent today, which is where virtually everyone who wants to work can work in Hungary and even in certain areas of Hungary has to face a labour shortage, so the government has, quite rightly, formulated a number of measures for labour mobility, including in the next year's budget. However, it is not enough to give only jobs, and a steady rise in wages must also be sought. In Hungary, as Minister said in his expo, there has been a steady increase in real wages for 50 months. The 2018 budget provides the conditions for maintaining this pay rise path in the following year, and as a result, a significant increase in wages is expected for almost all workers in the continuation of all career schemes, including those with low earnings. We estimate that real wage growth in the economy could, on average, exceed 10 per cent in the next year. But what we are particularly proud of is the improvement of the income situation of the lowest earners, which started in 2017 with a significant increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. This will continue next year, as the minimum wage will increase by another 8 percent and the guaranteed minimum wage by 12 percent. With this we will achieve that the minimum wage for skilled workers has doubled since 2010, which I think we should all be proud of. The National Employment Fund will also provide funding for the Start Work Programme next year, worth more than HUF 220 billion in total. The Fund's resources will also cover labour market programmes aimed at further supporting the entry of public workers into the competitive sphere and helping them to move to the labour market. The market, economic operators, who account for more than 70% of the total job creation programme, has played a major role in increasing the number of people employed since 2010, i.e. more than half a million people have been employed in recent years. Ladies and Gentlemen, Fidesz has always considered the support of Hungarian families as a priority. Mr Lajos Kósa, leader of the group, said that the tax relief system for Hungarian families is unique in Europe as well. In particular, in the case of families with three and more children, we have introduced a system of discounts in the previous years, which does not mean that childbearing is the same as taking on poverty, as unfortunately was the case in Hungary. We have now focused on the families raising the two children, with a further HUF 35 thousand tax reduction from 1 January 2018, so the income of the families raising the two children will increase by more than HUF 400 thousand annually. The budget figures also show that next year more resources, more than HUF 225 billion will be available to finance the family's home-building programme, with additional economic development effects that will make a major contribution to making the 4.3 percent economic growth planned next year a reality by the end of the year. [[10.00]] And we have also not forgotten pensioners, because, as we have agreed, every year since 2010, our minimum commitment has been to preserve the real value of pensions. As we've done before, we've done it again. What we have achieved so far is that the purchasing value of pensions increased by more than 10 percent between 2010 and 2016, which means, as Minister said in his expoze, that we have returned the 13th month pension to pensioners that the Socialists took from them in 2009. [[Nándor Gúr will be replaced in the notary seat by Dezső Believing.]] In order to support families and improve their open labour market situation, we will transform the system of intraday care for young children from this year onwards. Next year's budget envisages more than HUF 190 billion for the kindergartens and more than HUF 35 billion for the cradle. Within the framework of the programme for the development of the mini-cradle, the budget also provides HUF 1.5 billion of development resources to ensure that as many municipalities as possible can ensure the return of parents to the working world as soon as possible. Next year, there will be more resources to support children's meals. The institutional and holiday meals will serve nearly HUF 80 billion. The state will contribute not only to the functioning of the cuisine supplying children's meals, but also to their development and expansion. Taking into account the above measures, next year's budget will provide more than HUF 1900 billion directly to finance the family support system, I think that all Members of Parliament who will support this next year's budget can be proud of this. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ancient wise people say not only the poor one who has nothing but also the one who wants too much. If we look at the draft budget for next year, then I think it contains realistic commitments that the performance of the Hungarian economy, set on a continuous growth path, can cover, which do not jeopardise the stability and security of public finances, but at the same time represent an opportunity for all Hungarian social groups to make progress that will bring about a qualitative change in their own lives, in terms of their own prosperity. I think that the person who has studied this budget thoroughly, has looked at its chapter appropriations, can see that there really is another opportunity for all Hungarians to make progress in the 2018 budget; not only by increasing the appropriations, not only by increasing the tax reduction programme and the various support schemes, but also by building a predictable security into the budget. After all, if we look at the chapters of the reserves, we can see that next year's budget will calculate with a reserve of more than HUF 200 billion for the possible unexpected situations for which we cannot prepare, and which have proved to be true in the past years, for example, in the context of the migrant crisis, when Hungary had to take these costs under an extraordinary measure by several tens of billions, and now, in total, by HUF 100 billion, in order to ensure the safety of Hungarian people. The 2018 budget is therefore sound, predictable and secure in all areas. I ask you to vote in favour of this adoption and thus the well-being of all Hungarian citizens. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-17-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. The keynote speech of the Fidesz Group will be continued by Mr Lajos Szűcs, the notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2017-05-17-13	Your Honour, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, As in the last two years, the government has been striving to preserve financial stability and stimulate economic growth in the planning of next year's budget. We have always stressed the need to put the country's finances on a stable footing first and then to achieve significant economic growth. As a result of this consistent economic policy, we first led the country out of the excessive deficit procedure and then repaid the IMF loan. Today, everyone, international credit rating agencies and the European Commission, recognise the progress made in restoring macroeconomic balance. I would like to leave it to your imagination what would have happened if we had not taken this path, what would have happened if we had not sought to do so with the work of the Hungarian people. I suggest you take a look at Greece's state of affairs today, and you can see that they've been in the same shoes for eight years. The Hungarian economy can grow unbroken as early as the sixth year in 2018, and the expansion exceeds the EU average. In addition, we have preserved the stability of public finances, and the reduction of public debt continues. Next year's budget amounts to HUF 18 740 billion in revenue and HUF 20 140 billion in expenditure, with a deficit of HUF 1360 billion. In 2018, nominal GDP could reach HUF 40 350 billion if the 4.3 percent economic growth is achieved. The planned deficit target is 2.4 per cent, and inflation remains around 3 per cent. The government is also committed to reducing the government debt to the national total product year after year. In 2018, nominal debt is expected to be HUF 27 500 billion, corresponding to 68.2 percent of the total national product. It is a particularly welcome fact that the share of foreign exchange debt in the debt of the central budget is declining from 15 percent in 2017 to 13 percent. It is a good thing that, for the second time, the government has submitted a budget of zero to Parliament. In other words, the state's operation is balanced, the deficit is primarily spent by the government to ensure improvements, which is perhaps the most important thing in a family budget. Expenditure which later provides an opportunity to generate revenue can always and always be supported. Ladies and gentlemen, We can say that the growth of the Hungarian economy shows an increasingly balanced structure, since growth is not only driven by exports, but also by renewable investments and dynamically developing and expanding consumption. A strong increase in investment can be projected in 2018, on the one hand, to support corporate investment, a reduction in the corporate tax rate to 9 per cent, and a number of large-scale developments. In the context of households' investments, the interest rate environment is stablely low and, in addition to rising real incomes, the family home creation discount and preferential housing tax provide further impetus to developments. The dynamics of public investment are significantly determined by the payment of resources for the new EU budget cycle. Due to typical pre-financing, the allocated amounts are expected to significantly strengthen investment performance between 2017 and 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, As a representative of Pest County, it is important to stress that Pest County has lost and fallen away from the possibility of using a number of community funds. In order to compensate for this, the Government will provide targeted financial support to Pest County enterprises and economic operators in line with the burden-bearing capacity of the budget to finance pre-signed needs and improvements. For this purpose, the plan sets a budget of HUF 30 billion. Next year, municipalities can also manage with more money, some HUF 2937 billion, to which the central budget contributes HUF 695 billion. This increases the support for 2017 by around 8.5 percent. As in previous years, the budget of the Health Insurance Fund for 2018 envisages a balance between the total revenue and expenditure, amounting to HUF 2315 billion. The budget of the Pension Insurance Fund is also balanced as the total revenue and expenditure of the Fund is HUF 3361 million. So it's zero. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, we have seen several times that not only the opposition, but also serious experts, saw the government's draft budgets as too optimistic. Each year, the time and closing accounts have confirmed the government's budgetary decisions, and the negative scenarios have not come true. Hopefully this will not be any different next year, because it is in our interest that this economic path and the targets that the Minister has set should be met. [[10.10]] The stability of the budget is strengthened by the fact that the system of reserves serves more than HUF 200 billion in the management of unforeseen risks and the sources of government measures that occur during the year. The new structure established in 2017 will remain for the next year, i.e. no shortage of operating expenditure for the State, thereby implementing the already mentioned zero budget. The government is committed to ensuring that the State operates without shortage, that it can finance the cost of public services without taking credit from operating revenues. To sum up, economic fundamentals are stable and are forecasting a sustainable growth trend. We consider the draft budget to be sound, so we ask the Fidesz Group and all my fellow Members to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, So our budget is predictable, consistent and sustainable. Every Hungarian person who has worked in this country in recent years has made an effort to achieve this situation, and the success of Hungary promises us a predictable future on the basis of the work done. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-17-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The MSZP group indicated that their group's position was presented by two speakers. I give the floor first to Mr Bertalan Tóth, who indicated that he would speak from the platform. I'll wait for you to get up on the platform. [[It's happening.]] Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor, please.
u2017-05-17-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, A budget is not just a set of numbers, but it is always a mirror, a mirror of how a community thinks about the redistribution of jointly produced goods, of what it intends to produce the redistributable goods and how it intends to distribute them, deliver them to the citizens; what it considers important, what it considers to be supported, what it wants to save money on; who it puts a greater burden on and who it wants to help. This is the case with the Hungarian central budget for 2018: it shows how Fidesz thinks about Hungarian society and how it intends to acquire the state goods produced jointly for its own moonyard. Ladies and gentlemen, What is reflected in the 2018 central budget bill is the budget of injustice and corruption, because it is unfair to distribute public burdens and it is unfair to redistribute a common budget cake. It's unfair, because Fidesz rewards the rich and punishes the poor. It's unfair for Fidesz to have the rich pay their taxes to low-income workers. It is unfair for the rich to make a tax reduction of HUF 400 billion a year while eliminating the minimum wage tax and raising VAT to 27 percent. It is unfair that the tax burden on people who live on wages, especially those who earn less, is one of the highest in Europe in 2018. These injustices must be eliminated. We need to reduce material differences if we are to catch up with developed countries. That is why we say that we should do justice, pay the rich, because those who have more than a million forints in income or over 100 million in wealth do have to do more; put it together to develop schools, hospitals, nursing homes; pay the doctors, nurses, educators, civil servants and civil servants fairly. But the distribution of the common cake is unfair, because Fidesz is more concerned that public funds should end up with friends, with Habonyek, Garanchik, Butchers, Tiborczek, Balog Adams, and it is unfair because there is not enough money available for health care, education and social services. In addition, there is less money for quality education and health, and the resources for those in need are falling despite the fact that since 2010 the tax burden on GDP has been increasing steadily, we have been paying more taxes for seven years than before; the rich have less and the small earners have been paying more. The money that can be distributed has become more, but there is less of it for the real tasks of the state, because Fidesz needs stadiums, propaganda and a nuclear power plant that never returns. We say this is a budget of corruption, because the hundreds of billions spent on these projects always end up around Orbán and Rogan's friends and relatives. We say that it was enough, because there is no cure in stadiums, propaganda does not replace quality education, and the Orbán-Putin pact is only in the interests of Russia, although our grandchildren will pay for it. Ladies and gentlemen, The speakers before me had many nice words for next year's budget. At the same time, the fine words did not say who the winners and losers of the budget for injustice and corruption would be, who would benefit and who would be worse. Well, the likely winner of the 2018 budget will be defence and public security tasks within the budget, as well as visual sports, multinationals, strategic partners and domestic oligarchs, as well as those receiving land-based support from Community funds. On the other hand, the 2018 budget loses the health and social system, education, institutions of basic, secondary and higher education, the municipal system, local societies, areas outside the catchment area of modern cities, increasing territorial inequalities and losing people living in poverty and social exclusion. All of this envisages a further division of society, the durability of injustice, and a further fall from Hungary's countries of the region in economic policy. Thus, the 2018 budget will give no hope to the majority of people, and the country will continue to be robbed, the Fidesz-close entrepreneurs and families will be able to re-acquired to massive billions uncounted. Ladies and gentlemen, As a result of Fidesz' seven-year governance, poverty has increased, more and more people are at risk of slipping down, more than a third of the total population is now living below the minimum. This is much more than ever before 2010, even in the years of crisis. For this reason, we would expect the proposal for a budget law to take a turn, to try to help people and families living in a difficult line instead of the wealthy and friends, and to help create a real, broad and strong middle class. But you left these people on the side of the road. As a result of the seven-year government of Fidesz, Hungary's competitiveness has fallen brutally. In one year, Hungary was ranked 69th in the World Economic Forum's list of competitiveness. We have been cut off not only from the core of the EU, but also from the Visegrád countries, and one of the main reasons for this is government operation and corruption. The result of Fidesz' seven-year governance is the destruction of the education system. Not only is there a problem with the country's competitiveness in the present, but it will also be in the future, as according to the latest survey in 2015, according to the PISA report, one in four children is functionally illiterate and the school system preserves social differences. That's what the Urizing Fidesz elite's education policy brought. It is therefore incomprehensible and unacceptable that Fidesz is spending less and less money on education in its proportions. It is unacceptable that a child's fate is already sealed by the fact that he was born in a rich or poor family. We believe that all Hungarians are equal and must have equal opportunities so that the development of talent is not prevented by the poverty of the family. Remember: because if there were children today, the former Soros Scholar, whose first name is Viktor, he probably wouldn't have been able to attend university. Ladies and gentlemen, Fidesz's seven-year governance results in systemic health problems. 'Cause for example, how come there's billions of them for propaganda, but no proper hospital cleaning? How come there's up to 4,000 people on a GP because the practice isn't loaded? How come there's not enough money for drug subsidies? [[10.20]] How is it that there are only promises to raise the wages of health workers, but you don't want to keep that? And they're even making fun of him... We would expect the budget to provide decent health care from the Hungarian people's tax forints, which includes the respectable financial recognition of the work of healthcare workers. So we would have expected you to set up next year's budget on such principles, but that is not what happened, because you have brought the budget of injustice and corruption to Parliament. For you are the first family - I mean, the family belonging to Viktor Orbán's Mafia government and the members of the family [[Miklós Soltész: Hold me back!]] : Lőrinc Mészáros, Garancsi, the Matolcsy clan operate in this spirit. The clans have been created, the cultures have been created, and it is no coincidence that more and more people who were not previously on the list of hundreds of richest Hungarians are specifically related to Viktor Orbán, the Prime Minister and his environment. For example, Lőrinc Mészáros, the gas mechanic in the Highway, increased his assets by HUF 100 billion in a year, while it may not be possible that a high school manager can pay for an unexpected expense. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us take a closer look at what is included in the budget of injustice and corruption. Let's see how functions are distributed, what Fidesz wants to spend on! More than 17 percent of expenditure goes to public functions, more than 21 percent goes to the state's economic functions. If we compare this to 2010, we see that the government spends more than 3 percent on its own operational functions and significantly less on economic functions than in 2010. This means that after seven years we will finance a larger state in its proportions, despite the great voices and actions, and this is partly the cause of the deterioration of our competitiveness, because the state's operation is not effective. And it is quite amazing that we have to spend more than 8 percentage points more tax forints on the economic functions of the state than in 2010. And let's stop here for a second. What is there to spend on within the economic functions of the state? For example, for energy supply tasks, my fellow Members, more than HUF 120 billion. But I ask you, what was the point of buying all kinds of reservoirs and all kinds of energy companies with tax-paying money for nearly HUF 1000 billion? I understand that someone likes to buy this and profit from it, but they did it with taxpayers' money. And I ask myself, if there is already state-owned total residential gas supply and there is state dominance in the power supply, then why doesn't the state give energy cheaper through its companies, because we can see that the energy price in Europe has decreased by 50-60 percent, and we have now seen a statement that while energy prices in Europe have also decreased, the price of energy has not been reduced by one forint. How is it that in 2005 at $50 oil price there was a cubic meter of gas, today at nearly $50 oil price this price is HUF 101? Who's profiting from this? We know that. I've already listed their names. Ladies and gentlemen, Returning to the budget, it would be okay for the state to spend more on itself and spend more on various economic functions, the problem is that they do not increase health, not education and not social expenditure, but pay for all this money to the detriment of it. It should be clearly noted that while budget expenditure on welfare functions accounted for 61.5 percent of budget expenditure in 2010, by 2018 the government would only use 54 percent of the budget for this purpose. These expenditures also decreased by more than 5 percentage points in GDP, but unfortunately not because people were suddenly getting healthier or more well-being, but because Fidesz needed money for something else: filling friends and business partners with public funds. While there is an increase in the amount of money spent on services that fulfil the State's operational functions, there is less common access to welfare functions. Ladies and gentlemen, Ten years ago, the country spent 6.1 percent of GDP on educational activity. Last year, Fidesz spent 4.6 percent of GDP on this, not even 5 percent next year, it's a shame. Since the change of regime, we have not spent as little time on education in any year as we have after 2010. On average, OECD countries spend more than 5 percent and 5.2 percent of their GDP on education, which is still not achieved. In 2010, we spent 4.6 percent of GDP on health expenditure, just like ten years ago, no more or less, but last year it was 3.9 percent, and this year it is not worth 4.6 percent. There is a similar reduction in expenditure on social security and welfare services. You know that this includes pensions, family allowances, unemployment benefits and other social benefits. Well, while 17.5 percent were available for such purposes in 2010, this is 13 percent in 2018. Within the functional expenditure of public finances, we spent 34.6 percent of the expenditure for these purposes in 2010, with 28.5 percent support for the provision of these services in 2018. In 2010, pensions were spent at 10 per cent of GDP, with only 8.2 per cent of GDP in 2018. The pension parlament is going on right now, it would be worth going over to you and telling you these nice speeches about the pension increase, because if you had taken the 13th month pension, it would have been like if you hadn't raised a pension, because you were raising it with inflation, and not with the Swiss indexation system that was before, because if you had kept it, you could have talked about it. Go through, there are 400 delegates here, and explain to them that they have their 13th month pension back. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's right! They're waiting for everyone with love.]] We spent 4 percent of the budget expenditure on family allowances and children's benefits in 2010, today only 2.9 percent. In view of the specific amounts, the so-called social security benefits will be reduced by a few hundred million HUF, but the other social support functions and aid will be reduced by HUF 34 billion in nominal terms, together with a reduction in the proportion of more than one item. The family allowance, the child, the child, the maternity allowance has remained unchanged for 10 years next year, and the amount of appropriations is still falling, which is also unacceptable. Ladies and gentlemen, The budget for injustice and corruption cannot be accepted. The budget for injustice and corruption must be rewritten in order to bring justice and stop fidesz corruption. In this context, the Socialist parliamentary group will propose a budget transfer of some HUF 774 billion in order to make more money for health, education and social affairs. In the framework of this, we will initiate a transfer of HUF 258 billion for social assistance, family support, holiday meals, the start-up of the social housing system, increase equity pensions and exceptional invalidity benefits, to reduce income differences and improve the quality of services. We propose a transfer of HUF 250 billion in education to increase the wages of teachers, support for universities, colleges and equal opportunities for people with disabilities, and we propose a transfer of HUF 266 billion to health care workers for wage increases, the promised benefits of rescue workers and the development of hospital infrastructure. These funds are available in the budget of injustice and corruption, between funding for propaganda, nuclear power plants, public media, stadiums and prestige investments. Please support our proposals. Thank you for listening.
u2017-05-17-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Congressman Attila Mesterházy will continue his speech from here on the platform. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-17-17	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In order to properly assess the 2018 budget presented to us by the Government, which is indeed a budget for injustice and corruption, it is worth examining a little further what the economic policy of the Orbán government has achieved since 2010. I have summarized this path in eight points since 2010, so I will try to sum up the reviews briefly. 1. Hungary's competitiveness gradually and significantly deteriorated, in the latest report of the World Economic Forum, making Hungary 69th in six places worse. 2. Hungary's GDP has grown more slowly in recent years than the gross domestic product of the neighbouring countries, so Hungary is becoming more and more behind the countries of the region. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: The economy has developed by twice the EU average!]] [[10.30]] In 2015 and 2016, the economies of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Poland, Romania and Slovakia also developed at a faster pace than the Hungarian economy. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: Double the EU average!]] 3. The percentage of public debt is decreasing more slowly, while its amount is rising from HUF 20 000 billion in 2010 to HUF 30 000 billion in 2018, and the deficit is only below 3 percent of GDP due to the nationalisation of private pension funds. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: We are reducing the socialist record!]] 4. Poverty has grown. The difference between the poorest and the richest tenth is eightfold. This was the last time in a year or two after the change of regime, and the worsening trend is accelerating. According to the latest research, 36 percent of Hungarians live below the minimum living age. 5. In terms of average earnings, Hungary is the last of the V4 countries. The purchasing power of the minimum wage reached the 2010 level only last year, so we can talk about lost six years. Even though we've told you for three years that you need a raise, you've done nothing for years. The tax burden on people living on wages, in particular minimum wage and guaranteed minimum wage, will be among the highest in 2018 in the European Union and even in the OECD countries. 6. The HUF is 17 percent weaker than in 2010, and the Hungarian National Bank led by the government and György Matolcsy is clearly responsible for this. 7. The Hungarian economy is essentially kept alive by EU funds. Better macroeconomic data can be attributed to the amount of EU funds coming in; we spend HUF 2200 billion in 2017 and HUF 2400 billion in 18, which corresponds to 6.7 and 6.4 percent of GDP respectively. So, in a very simple way, we have achieved a 4.3 percent increase from the 6.4 percent call for funds according to the most optimistic government scenario. 8. The public burden measured in proportion to GDP has increased from 37.5 per cent to over 39 per cent since 2010. The tax system has changed in the interest of the rich, leaving them with about 400 billion single-key women a year, while the tax burden on low-income families has increased. The minimum wage tax exemption has been abolished, and the VAT rate, which is also known as the tax of the poor, has reached first place at EU level with its 27 percent. Neither of these problems will be changed next year's budget. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, Hungary's economic indicators have been acceptable, mainly due to the revival of EU funds and to the overachievement of tax revenues. However, its sustainability is not guaranteed. Meanwhile, due to the political orientation and institutional system of the Hungarian government, it is now being isolated internationally to an extremely worrying extent, which narrows down the ability to defend national interests. Hungary's international perception is expected to remain unchanged due to its separate, market- and anticompetitive economic policies, with new and new corruption cases, and this undermines the private sector's investment spirit. Thus, although Hungary's economic indicators have improved statistically, this is not sustainable in the long term. The Hungarian government is either not doing enough to change the underlying things in the right direction or even make things worse. While the OECD acknowledges that investments have started to grow again since 2012, it is the investment of foreign multi-enterprises and EU transfers that are most responsible for growth, while Hungarian companies, especially SMEs, are hardly willing to invest. The reason for this is that regulations are changing too quickly, unpredictablely and opaquely. In addition, the fact that Eurostat does not consider the government's government debt figures to be credible can make a significant contribution to the lack of investment and the lack of inflow of foreign working capital. We can recall that, following Eurostat's communication of 21 October 2016, on 24 April 2017, it reiterated its reservations about the quality of the data provided by Hungary, which is primarily Eximbank Zrt. is related to its classification and certain activities of the National Bank of Hungary. As a reminder, some of Eximbank's preferential lending transactions to those close to Fidesz and the activities of the Matolcsy Foundations have been found here. Such an opinion of Eurostat could in itself do much more harm to Hungary's assessment than if the government allowed us in this debate and corrected our sovereign debt indicators. Ladies and gentlemen, In such an environment, not learning from their previous mistakes, you want to decide again at the end of spring, at the beginning of summer, on the next year's budget, when there are no tax laws yet adopted, and you do not see how the base year, the plans for 2017 are being fulfilled. However, it is clear that this year's budget adopted at this time last year has already failed, since last week the government submitted a bill on its adjustment. The figures in the proposed budget law for 2018 are not sufficiently substantiated, and economic researchers have almost without exception stressed that the transparency of the budget has not improved or even deteriorated. It deteriorated because the 2018 budget is based on rolled planning data. This means that this budget is very far from real processes. In addition, the government can now decide on budgetary commitments in its own power, without the mandate of the Parliament, so from now on the budgetary debate has become completely pointless, since basically it will only be possible to argue about fictitious figures. Ladies and gentlemen, The budget presented in a new structure since last year has no economic significance, but only makes transparency and comparison with previous years more difficult. The planned budget deficit of 18 has slowly increased from 1.6 percent to 2.4 percent in recent years, which clearly shows that Fidesz, i.e. an election budget, has started spending on elections. The important consequence of the increase in the deficit is that the structural deficit is also rising next year, and the government is violating the rule imposed by the European Union, which has been passed by the Hungarian legislation into the Stability Act and which requires the fulfilment of the structural deficit of 1.7 percent in proportion to GDP in Hungary. The structural deficit is determined according to the potential growth rate of public debt, GDP and the economy, so the Hungarian economy can tolerate only 1.7 percent in the longer term. That is why we should approach this and not move away. The situation is so much more serious that the 2.4 percent structural deficit in 2017 will rise to 2.5 percent next year, thus openly violating public financial standards. In view of the fact that the Act on Economic Stability also includes an obligation to close to the structural deficit, the draft budget law does not therefore comply with all public financial requirements. The SAO agreed with this in its report, and even the Fiscal Council raised concerns about this and expects the government to have an action plan. Ladies and gentlemen, Speaking of the opinion of the Fiscal Council, we cannot pass the opinion of Árpád Kovács without saying a word. According to the President of the Fiscal Council, there are two threats to Hungarian economic policy in 2018: one is the unexpected growth and the second is the deterioration of the external trade balance. It's also a risk to be taken into account. According to Árpád Kovács, the implementation of the GDP growth plans in 2017 will not be a problem, the wage increases and the inflow of EU funds provide the necessary resources for the planned growth. However, with regard to GDP 2018, further efforts may be needed to achieve a 4.3 percent increase in GDP. Mr President has also stated and I would quote that the government's growth forecast is the highest, compared with the prognosis of other institutions and market analysts. According to the recent European Bank for Reconstruction and Development report, Hungary will be able to achieve 3 percent in this year and next year, instead of the 4.3 percent growth expected by the government. Ladies and gentlemen, In many areas, the budget of injustice and corruption does not spend as much as it would be in the interests of the Hungarian people, and it gives hundreds of billions of forints for many purposes that serve only the interests of the Fidesz clientship. Therefore, as Mr Group Leader has indicated, we are proposing transfers to reduce the injustices in the budget. [[10.40]] In the next part of my speech, I would like to talk specifically about these transfers. One of the first important areas is the social area, for which the government will spend less in terms of GDP and expenditure distribution than this year, while the state will spend much more on itself and its leaders. In addition to increasing the proportion of people living below the minimum level, this means that the government is giving almost nothing of the growth expected, i.e. Hungary is still underperforming in terms of social expenditure. So, in proportion to the broad social area, there will be less next year than this year's total GDP. In the middle of the crisis, in 2009, the government spent 17.7 percent of GDP on social policy expenditure, next year it will be 13.67 percent. In nine years, the government has reduced the share of social expenditure by more than 4 percentage points. In order to reduce the injustices in the social field, we are proposing that the family allowance for all children, which last changed in 2008, should finally be increased. We propose a 35 percent increase to compensate for the loss of real value. Similarly, we consider it important to increase the support for child rearing by 35 percent for maternity support, ged, ged, ged, ged, ged. We will also initiate a substantial increase in the twice-year benefits of children in need by an increase of approximately 50%. In addition, the establishment of the mini-cradle space [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] About 150 institutions with a maximum grant of HUF 10 million can be supported by HUF 1.5 billion planned to support it; as there would be much more places to create this type of institution, we recommend doubling the envelope. We also propose to increase support for holiday meals for children in need, so that all children in need can also benefit from meals during school holidays. [[Németh Szilárd István: That's how it has been for years, my friend! Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] We'd raise the line by 50 percent of the frame...
u2017-05-17-18	Mr. Congressman, unfortunately, I do not have the opportunity to give you a minute to live up to the old house rules. 30 seconds [[Attila Mesterházy: Yes!]] I've gone to excess, please stop.
u2017-05-17-19	Thank you very much. In addition, the educational area is the main area for which we are also preparing for major transfers. And the third such area is the area of health, which we will present to Parliament in detail in the debate, what kind of redeployment we would like to propose specifically for Parliament. In conclusion...
u2017-05-17-20	Thank you...
u2017-05-17-21	... Mr President, thanking you for your patience, we believe that this is an unfair, unfair and corrupt budget, and at the same time [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]] election budget, therefore, in this respect...
u2017-05-17-22	Congressman...
u2017-05-17-23	... the Socialist faction will not support...
u2017-05-17-24	I'm sorry.
u2017-05-17-25	Thank you very much.
u2017-05-17-26	... he's over a minute past his time frame. Thank you. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr János Harghitai. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-17-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The Orbán government will present the last budget for two government cycles by 2018, which will give us and I the opportunity to look back on this eight-year period with a base year 2010. It is also appropriate to do this because when we negotiate budgets, we know well that we do not put in a budget what is in our desires, but we need to adapt to reality, to various realities, and obviously to the movements of the world economy at that time in 2010, we had an inheritance left by the Socialist Government. These are fundamentals that we could not ignore when we launched in 2010 a series of budgets that we drafted in law year after year, and this is the last time we do it in this government cycle in due time for the establishment of the 2018 budget. What can we say about the world experienced by 2010 in relation to the budget? My first somatic statement may be, and it will be difficult to argue with it, even from the socialist benches, that by 2010, we used to say that our budget was unpredictable and undisciplined, because the figures that were presented in the budget at the time, the main figures, we can say that they were almost never achieved. Socialist speakers are right that the budget is not just numbers, although the figures in this law are very important, but the budget reflects the social philosophy of the government, which is why we spend a long time negotiating a budget. I think that the socialist government was undisciplined and unpredictable in its budgets because there was really no idea that it wanted to tell society in these budgets, there was no real social philosophy, the socialist government improvised only as a technocrat until 2010, and it also failed to do these improvisations. The Hungarian practice continued until 2010 - this practice goes back a long time, and all of our problems or many of our problems can be traced back here - that if there are no funds at home, because we do not create these resources with our economic policy, we are reaching out to the means of borrowing. Until 2010, the financial resources of the global economy provided the opportunity to borrow without necks, thus allowing socialist governments to live until the last moment. The result of this is that Hungary's debt has been accelerated, I can say that almost all the players have been in debt, on the one hand, the state itself, as part of the state, the municipalities, the Hungarian businesses have been in debt, and on the other hand, the biggest tragedy, including individuals, is the problem of foreign exchange taxation. As a result of this, we have been obliged to state that, since we joined the European Union, we have been subject to an excessive deficit procedure since 2004, we have never been able to deliver the numbers that the larger community of the European Union, of which we are a member, would have expected us to do. Before 2010, it was typical that the foundations of the Hungarian economy were poor; the most tragic indicator I would like to draw attention to was that there was hardly any employment in the country. We have always compared ourselves with the Czech Republic, and the Czech Republic offers a comparison because the Czech Republic is also a country of 10 million. At the time, there were 10 million employees in the Czech Republic, 3.5 million employees in the Czech Republic, and what is even sadder is that many of these employees did not pay taxes. These were the tragic fundamentals on which the Hungarian economy could then be built. No wonder the global economic crisis that affected many countries in different ways in 2008 almost swept Hungary away. Greece and Hungary were the two EU Member States that were kneeled down by the global economic crisis. At that time, the government reached out to the only option, the traditional opportunity, and took 20 billion euros at the last minute, and that saved us from the bankruptcy of the state. This state failure knocked on our door would mean that pensioners wouldn't receive pensions, and those living in the state sector wouldn't get paid. This was the initial situation in 2010, and we had to raise the country from here. As a result, I can also say that until 2010, I can say that this country has lost its sovereignty, its economic sovereignty is quite certain, because the World Bank and the European Union did not give us that huge loan for love at the last moment, but they gave us conditions. The Hungarian government had then the shame that we had to announce in a government decree, in law, the agreement that we had then concluded with the World Bank and the European Union, and in this agreement we took the steps that the Socialist Government then took to draw the appropriate amounts of credit. [[10.50]] At that time, we agreed in a government decree that we would take away the 13th month pension from pensioners as a remedy for trouble, forget the 13th month salaries in the public sector, increase the tax burden so that we would have more revenue, and the socialist government started implementing it. That is, our economic independence has ceased. That's what I needed to fix. This is the task faced by the Orbán government in 2010. That is why I said that we do not do in 2010 what we want, what we want, what our social philosophy dictates, but that we are bound to these compulsions. If the socialist MEPs who spoke before me say that they regard what they are doing as wrong, even though they realize that a country in bankruptcy has been handed over to us, and it binds our mobility, we would have listened to the socialist lead speakers in a different refraction. But interestingly, they forgot to tell you that. That's why I'm forced to remind them of that. So after 2010, our first effort had to be to regain our economic independence. [[Zoltán Pride: To prepare for the theft!]] Obviously we had to pursue a predictable fiscal policy, the figures had to stand, and since 2010, I can say that every single Hungarian budget submitted by the Orbán governments has been implemented or overachieved. It has been mentioned here that we are now amending the 2017 budget. Congressman Mesterházy said how tragic it is to change the budget because the budget does not stop, the numbers do not match. [[Miklós Soltész: He didn't touch it.]] Yesterday we talked for hours here about positive movements, growth greater than we hoped, more of us can give people greater family support, more of us can improve all sectors. So these are the tragic processes that Congressman has referred to here, with the simple remark that the numbers are not right. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What about agricultural money? Where are they?]] And you have to touch the budget, but that's the reality I'm telling you here. We broke up with the practice that we liked to follow, even in the period of socialism, that we have always seen the solution in borrowings. [[Dr. László Kács: Like a settlement policy.]] The Orbán government has never taken a single forint loan into operation since its operation in two cycles. That is why our public debt has not increased since then, but has decreased. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That is not true!]] During these two government cycles, we were able to repay the 20 billion-dollar loan they had taken at the last minute to the last cent. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Where are the lands? You sold the Hungarian land! The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Peter Hoppál: It's hard to bear the truth! It's the truth!]] We've kept the deficit goal, we've stopped debt, we've even reduced it. [[Anita Beringes intervenes.]] we are out of the scope of the excessive deficit procedure in which - once again - we have been since 2004 [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: Creditors!]] and now credit rating agencies recognize it, and their signals indicate that they have raised us back to the category recommended for investment. I note that the market has already made this judgement much earlier, but the credit rating agencies have also followed it. I mean, when we said in 2010 that the fundamentals of the Hungarian economy need to be strengthened, with these arguments, which I have just mentioned, I think that this is basically a success. But what did we have to do to succeed? We had to create a work-based economy. I have indicated that there were few employees in this country before 2010 and that the significant part of the few employees did not pay taxes. In other words, we simply did not have the foundations of the economy. Today, 700,000 more people work than they did back then. Yes, the Fidesz lead speakers also mentioned: we dreamed of a million extra workers in ten years, we all seemed unbelievable, hardly believable, and today I can say that this was achieved in proportion to the time. Another important thing that we could do and wanted to do is break up with the practice that previous governments followed before 2010: if there is trouble and income needs to be generated, we always touch those who are the most defenseless of potential income owners. Not to companies, not to multinational companies, but to small people and families. [[Z. Dániel Kárpát is talking to pro-government representatives.]] The government order I was talking about, what the World Bank had us do, that was basically what it meant. We have said that we will not continue this practice, we will protect the most defenseless income owners, and these are families, private people and families. [[What about the pensioners?]] We started a family policy in 2010 that is unprecedented in Europe. I am thinking of a system of family tax incentives, a system of family support, and all that we have managed to achieve in this area.
u2017-05-17-28	Excuse me, excuse me, Congressman, I'll stop you for a minute. I would ask Mr Z. Kárpát, Member Soltesz, Mr Hollik, not to have a specific debate, because the house rules have clear measures on that. Excuse me, Congressman, continue.
u2017-05-17-29	It's okay. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Dr. László Kács: What? Did they fight?]] Since then, we've started a policy of wage reconnaissance. I could not have imagined - I have been a member of the Committee on Budgets for twenty years - that one day we would be able to reach an agreement with economic operators and workers on a pay-receiving programme, looking forward to six years. I will talk about this; it will continue in 2018 in addition to the fact that the state has been making significant wage improvements in the area where it is the owner of everything - the public sector - for years. I'll talk to you about that, too. It is important to highlight a very important change because it is a tool in the hands of the budget on how to manage EU funds. For two cycles, for two EU financial cycles, we are beyond one, finished in 2013 and in the other. There is no doubt that very significant resources are coming from the European Union. They are often thought of as a gift to these sources. That's not true. Mihály Varga's exposé said how much money we make to the European Union. Obviously, significant amounts are coming to Hungary; some of the sums that come here also migrate back to those who give it. As a Baranyai representative, as I travel to Pest, I always face road 6, when I reach the ominous tunnels, that they also marked the contractor on the tunnels: Strabag. This name was added because, when the road was built, these sources also migrated back to Western Europe, because Strabag is not a Hungarian company. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Who's building these now? Strabag didn't win this time.]] The problem isn't that Strabag built it, I just wanted to point out that we're not getting these resources as a gift, and some of the resources are getting rich by those who give us the resources. It's hard to argue, that's all I'm saying. What have we fundamentally changed or want to change? We believe that European Union funds should be basically allocated to economic development. 60 percent of the resources in this financial cycle are devoted to this. The socialist governments thought otherwise in the previous term. I've been involved in a lot of municipal investments. None of this is pointless, we were happy to make these improvements, but if we had pursued a more forward-looking policy on these very significant amounts in the previous financial cycle... With regard to a very significant amount, only one look out: what we have already spent from European Union resources is already bigger than what we would have received as Marshall's aid if the Soviet Union had not deterred us from taking Marshall's aid. It doesn't matter how we use these resources. We are more successful with regard to the use of resources because we have put the use of EU funds at the centre of government policy. Not a National Development Agency - which is dependent on the government, but an institution that operates alongside the government - controls the processes, but the government itself, the Prime Minister's Office and the ministers who manage an operational programme. That is why we were able to draw the fullness of the resources in the previous cycle, which is why we will be able to publish every single source in 17 and indeed, what Mihály Varga said today in his Expo, in 2018 we want to sign all the funds with potential winners and contractors, and there is obviously also the allocation of money. So the money begins to operate in the Hungarian economy and increases Hungarian economic performance. I think that this is also an indication of what the Orbán government represents and what our predecessors have represented in relation to the use of money. [[11.00]] If a budget is not right, if there is no rationality in a budget, then any policy that a government wants to represent is unstable, it is questionable. This was faithfully reflected in the socialist governance. Our 2018 budget law is in line with everything we've done so far, and I've always argued that budget laws form a chain. There is a base in 2010, to which we are bound, and we want to go further, and we want to achieve our own social philosophy more and more, and since we are doing this consistently, we have the opportunity to do so, and our results confirm that. That is why I say that the 2018 budget is practically not a new one compared to the previous one, but will continue to think, the social philosophy that we have already represented. What important objectives can we set in the 2018 budget? When we say that this is a budget for people from work, we have arguments for this, not just a declaration. So far, we have been thinking about full employment, and the 2018 budget figures and concrete measures are also intended to further increase employment. I've already told you about the six-year wage agreement that the government has been able to conclude with economic operators. This started in 2017, by raising the minimum wage by 15%, to an unprecedented extent. For the record, we raised it in earlier years. It was an even bigger raise, and we raised the minimum wage for skilled workers by 25 percent. The agreement also states that this will continue in 2018: the minimum wage will increase by 8 percent, while the minimum wage for skilled workers will increase by 12 percent. And we don't leave the burden to the players, it's not a dictatorship, it's an agreement. This agreement also sets out how the contributions payable by companies as a burden on those wages will be reduced in 2017 and 2018. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Another of these important areas that I can demonstrate is that this is the budget of people from work, if I look very briefly at what the 2018 budget provides in family policy, not starting a new one, but continuing the practice of previous years. In 2018, tax savings of HUF 35,000 a month are worth a family with two children. The home creation program that we introduced into the public under the name CSOK continues. The 2018 budget devotes 226 billion forints to home creation. Families are affected by the thinking that we represent in relation to VAT cuts. Our socialist fellow Members always tell us that we have the highest VAT content in the European Union. That's true, it's just a half-truth. In addition to the 27 percent average rate, an increasing range of basic foods is added to the 5 percent key. This will continue in 2018 when the VAT on fish as a product is reduced to 5 per cent for the internet or fish consumption. A family includes not only employees and children, but also a family of pensioners. In 2018, according to inflation, we calculate a 3 percent increase in pension, and pensioners can count on this. In fact, with which we can calculate and calculate: we will most likely pay a pension premium to pensioners, because the Hungarian economy fulfils the conditions under which the pension premium will be paid, i.e. the economy will grow above 3.5 percent. Here I note that this quarter's data gives rise to great optimism, as the Hungarian economy grew by 4.1 percent in the first quarter. When we were planning, we were thinking 3.1 percent. Seeing the budget processes, it was mainly the Ministry of National Economy that dared to draw up larger figures, and now, in the course of this year's budget changes, we are building on these larger figures. So pensioners will also benefit from the better performance of the Hungarian economy, in addition to the 3 percent pension increase, they are likely to expect a pension premium in 2018. Reinforced security - it could be a calling word we need to talk about. Unfortunately, they represent expenditure for Hungary that would be useful to save, but it cannot be saved, because the migrant crisis is a prolonged crisis, we must defend our borders, who are complying with border protection, we must appreciate them, and therefore we must invest more than expected in this area. In the 2018 budget, we have HUF 514 billion in order to protect order. We can achieve all these goals because we can say that the Hungarian economy is stable and strong. As I have already said, we can calculate with 4.3 percent economic growth in 2018, so that additional resources are allocated to all areas of life that I am going to talk about, and I am doing it now so that there is a logical link between what has been said. These figures were mentioned in the ministerial exposé, and I am just confirming it, because I have heard from socialist Members that we are spending little on certain areas. We will spend 81 billion more on education in 2018 compared to 2017. We spend 102 billion more on health compared to 2017. We spend 287 billion more on pensions, family support, social space, that is, everything that affects the different actors in the family than in 2017. Economic development - it is extremely important to have a long-term outlook and thinking of the budget - we spend 205 billion more than in 2017. [[Zoltán Grimlock: 100 will belong to the Butcher!]] Who gets these numbers says here, Congressman Haughty, he can read from the budget something that's not in the budget. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It's all we've ever had!]] He called his name because his thoughts were not heard [[Károly Kontra: He's confused!]] I am therefore expressing the thoughts of the Socialist Member, and he gave me a name for it. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Which one? Interviews from the benches of MSZP: Which name?]] Where these sources go. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's for sure!]] In order to protect the law, the surplus that we need to use, although not to, is 80 billion more than the one that we spent in 2017. Dear Parliament, We must always avoid the mistake of pointing back to socialist governments after two government cycles. It's not my bread. I didn't point it back to you today. When I remember 2010, it was like I was trying to prove that we were doing better than that. That's for the electorate to decide. And it wasn't a better achievement than it was, because it was so anti-performance that they gave me at the time. [[Miklós Soltés applauds.]] This was mainly reflected in Hungarian economic and budgetary policy. Once since the change of regime, we were close to a state failure when the socialists governed. This was recognized by voters in time, so they were expelled from government. To draw up the passwords of the '50s, Mátyás Rákosi once said a great sentence in Kaposvár, in this great city; his economic policy was to pay the rich. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Oh! Oh!]] Those who have bankrupted the country with a failed economic policy now believe that these passwords can be used to drive it back. No, voters are wise, we can hope for collective wisdom. Therefore, I think that the 2018 budget is based on sound figures, made with conservative planning. The real danger is that elections are or would mean that the implementation of this budget would be left to another government. They won't. I believe in collective wisdom. The budget that we have planned and created here, I think, is going to be implemented by a next Orbán government. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[11.10]]
u2017-05-17-30	Welcome, fellow Members. Now it's time for the Jobbik Group. They indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2017-05-17-31	Mr President, Dear House, With regard to the most important bill of the year, we must once again confront the government with its now recurring mistake of putting the draft budget in the spring of the previous year and, in fact, trying to plan for a next year without the ground of base, foundations and predictability. Indeed, we see that all this is supposed to come not from incompetence, but from conscious political intent, conscious political profiteering. From this comes the professionally indefensible situation of the government to plan a budget for 2018 and to amend the 2017 budget. With the amendments being made, this government is already in trouble. I would like to confront and ask Mr State Secretary, who answers professional questions fairly, whether they now undertake that this government has deliberately under-planned inflation in the previous period, so that when inflation figures that correspond to real expectations have been revealed, pensioners can be given the difference thus created as a sort of compensation, while they only gave pensioners the amount that would have been due to them on the basis of fair financial planning. So here, the waiting figures are a strong accusation against the government, if not manipulated, or at least very, very flexiblely handled. We see, therefore, that, while the 2017 budget changes are also on the agenda, there would have been so much room for manoeuvre in this, given certain economic developments, that, in the event of fair planning, a 15% increase in the minimum wage and a 25% increase in the guaranteed minimum wage would have been possible by the end of the previous year. So, basically, a year in advance would have been possible if the government had planned fairly and worked fairly. But you can see that the budget planned for 2018 is clearly for election purposes, with a brutal amount of vague items or items spent on insanity. My fellow Member, Enikő Hegedűsné Kovács, will explain in detail, but Jobbik's experts have found some HUF 600 billion of resources in this draft that are either separated from net madness or prestige investments, pyramid constructions or completely vague purposes. We, the right-handlers, claim that by redeploying some of these resources, even half of them, it would be possible to reduce the VAT on basic foods to 5% in full. It would be possible to reduce the VAT on children's education to 5%. After all, in the middle of a demographic winter, how does the Secretary of State or any other member of the government expect a turn of events with the most brutal VAT content of child rearing articles in Hungary throughout Europe? This needs to be changed, and this budget could include a change. Unfortunately, however, we do not see the government's intention to do so. Thirdly, speaking of demographic winter, I can't and I don't want to take away the benefits of family support, because what's good, a Jobbik government will keep it. I am very sad that the list of good and positive, praiseworthy elements is relatively short. At the same time, I must point out that, as long as there is an amazing housing crisis in Hungary, Hungary can basically pour as much into the various forms of family support. If a young person, a university student, and a first-time employee encounters the fact that they have to pay 130-150 thousand for an average-sized apartment in Budapest; while the rural person also encounters the fact that they do not encounter a reasonable, affordable and affordable amount of rentals, the housing crisis will certainly drive crowds abroad. This is also a sense of inability to obtain a single home, because from today's average Hungarian salary, if someone makes an attempt to find a home of his own, it is true, if he is not one of the lucky ones, and is not located up the citational ladder from the upper middle class, so he cannot use things like the special benefit of CSOK, then he sees that he cannot obtain a single home within a reasonable time. This budget would therefore include a public-legged home-building and rental-building programme with a public background, which would make tens of thousands of apartments available on several legs, making the housing crisis well below market prices and reducing housing poverty. I would add, Mr State Secretary, that this government could have even made EU funds available to the public for energy improvements, let us say that if at least one level of energy was raised by housing or real estate, but the current government of Hungary was the one who basically closed this energy programme to public institutions, only used it in a way that could be used by public institutions, and it simply did not allow the Hungarian population to achieve facilitations in this area. At the same time, we find amazing wasteful items. The increase in the annual budget of the National Defence Fund of HUF 56 billion and in the amount of extraordinary government measures of HUF 10 billion is quite amazing. His reasons are frivolous, and we do not know why the government is asking for such extra money in a reserve, an extraordinary fund, and the justification is childish. At the same time, they want a blank check signed. Secretary of State, are you expecting more floods next year or more natural disasters? Obviously not. The fact is that tens and hundreds of billions of people are asked to make allowance, so that later they will decide in a government decision what, how, how effectively, in what form they will spend it. After all, it is clear that even the incomplete and incorrect audit of the State Audit Office of Hungary only notes that in 2015 HUF 346 billion was included in the National Defence Fund and provisions appropriations, according to the State Audit Office, their use is decided by the Government - that is all. No one checks how much, how much, how effective, how effective they spend. Secretary of State, we're talking hundreds of billions. So even in the most basic professional schools, it would fail that without justification, without reason, they would actually want to have an empty check filled out, and they simply couldn't give a sane reason for it. However, we also see that in terms of public institutions or even state institutions, they say that their funding is in order, but if, let us say, we highlight the Hungarian Academy of Sciences as an example, we see that it had to sell two of its valuable properties so that it could finance its outstanding expenses by increasing its own revenues and thus survive the next period. So, in the case of very important institutions, government pampering simply does not extend, even if I could argue with certain activities of the Academy of Sciences, say, regarding Hungarian origin research. We also see that the budget of the National Media and Infocommunication Authority and the Media Council is still not included in the central budget on its own feet, even though they will receive an amazing grant of more than 71 billion dollars, but this will be sanctioned by a separate law that you set out, even though it would be a place for both justification and detailed breakdown in this case. In the same way, it can be described that they do not simply provide an insight into the area of the state's finances that is outside the public finances, so I am thinking of public sector organisations, including companies of major importance: MVM, State Motorway Manager, State Secretary, MÁV is also included, public foundations, let us say, the public foundations of the Hungarian National Bank. I mean, it's okay that they're expanding the real estate portfolio, throwing it into art and painting purchases, you think they've lost their public money, I don't think they've lost any money. It can also be seen that a huge amount of abuse can occur here, which, in the absence of transparency, has simply led to the fact that, in fact, profits increased on the exchange of currency are being lured out for crazy purposes or supposedly lured out for crazy purposes by these institutions. I'll tell you again, we're gonna get through this, but we're really sorry we can't see through it right now. To highlight an example from the previous sector: NAV will be able to spend almost 100 billion and 28 percent more on personal benefits compared to HUF 77.5 billion this year. But I hope that you will be able to tell us how many of these tax inspectors, customs inspectors, lawyers, managers, secretaries will be able to employ. After all, it is the legislator's job to consider these matters, not a government agency in dark offices, to decide all these things by excluding Parliament. But while we are talking about transparency, I have to ask you again for the national inventory, the national inventory of assets that has been missing continuously since 2010. In quotes, the country's family silver is not understood by this government, or, if it has an idea, it does not share it with the wider public. At the same time, we see that their forecasts for economic growth are not sufficiently explained, but they appear to be very optimistic, even the organizations that are friendly with you dared only predict economic growth above 4 percent for the last two years of Orbán's. [[11.20]] The problem is whether this will be true, or if another expectation, as before, will be revealed as soon as two years after full processing of the data, when another government is likely to be regressing. The Budgetary Council notes that by the end of March 2017, you will simultaneously turn out the EU's resources or try to make the most of the effort to keep this economy alive through umbilical cords. What will happen after 2018, what will happen after 2018, the document quoted by the Minister of National Economy does not have any vision, no flash-forward. So much so that now they're trying to spin 9200 billion forints. The KDNP lead speaker said that 60 percent of this crowd is translated into economic development, and he also said that he had not met a pointless economic development project. Well, during the regency of this government, we typically see that, in the case of a hull change, let's say, the facade of a hospital is being renovated, which the doctor has migrated from the hospital, the anesthetic machine may not work, and the building material is imported in order and often from Germany for the facade renovation. In many cases, we see that 60-70 percent of the EU funds coming here will migrate back to the consignor. Calling this system effective is an exaggeration, to say the least. At the same time, what developed as a pole during the previous keynote speech is the development of public debt. We can see that public debt exceeded the limit of 20 000 billion in 2010 and has since been on a monotonous growth path. We see that they are forecasting HUF 26 936.3 billion by 2017 and more than HUF 28 000 billion by 2018. It is clear that the trend of government debt growth is unbroken, it will soon reach HUF 30 000 billion, and in the Orbán era the government debt will increase by HUF 1000 billion a year, with a large average. We can and must play chess with GDP-related data, as part of the profession takes these into account, but let us not deny that sovereign debt is on an ever-increasing path in nominal terms. This is also important for a budgetary planning process, because, in real terms or in the case of GDP-related terms, some reductions can be shown in vain, if every year the budget is burdened only by over 1000 billion bn of repayment of interest charges - and this is where this figure is held, 1250 bn in the previous period, still over 1000 bn in size, so the quality of government debt management does not change - we see that every year there is a ballast in this draft budget that, if it were only partially turned off, the Hungarian economy's engine could be kicked in. On the other hand, we do not hear from the government a vision of what will happen to this mass of public debt. Can you grow out? It's not falling, I'll tell you again, it's slowly reaching 30,000 billion. And when it does, it's very hard to believe that it's going to turn into a declining course. But I'm inclusive of all kinds of counter-arguments, so let's just make some professionally substantiated counter-arguments. The series of data on job creation contains quite astonishing, titsy and striking roughness, as it says that the number of people employed has increased by 702,000 since 2010, mainly in the competitive sphere, to which 486 thousand jobs are attached. However, the situation is that in Hungary, the current government distorts this statistics by three factors. One is the number of well-known public workers, and we have already carried on countless polemias, which I do not wish to reopen. The other is to include student workers among decent, normal workers. A student worker does a decent job, but let's not mention it in a row with a person who works 40-60-80 hours a week, because it's quite clear that as long as your statistics work, he's booking a person working one hour a week as a full-fledged employee, it's very difficult to deal with this set without weighting. And there is a third factor: Hungary's Government accounts for some of the Hungarians working abroad but not fully registered. The distortion of these three statistics implies a difference in the size of 500 000 employees compared to a fair calculation methodology. So what we see is that in the competitive sphere, we have barely managed to create new jobs. In addition, Hungary is sliding on the competitiveness lists, and I do not want to analyse this in detail, as it has already been done. The main problem is in terms of productivity. In Hungary, workers work a lot, but they should not work more, but they should be able to work in a more efficient climate. In closing, I have to say, in the state machine, we can find another major problem that is not a cost-effective, modern, XXI. He built a century-old state apparatus, a government, but he's expanding himself, working with an amazing bureaucratic waterhead. There have never been as many senior officials in the Hungarian state apparatus as there are now. In 2010, Viktor Orbán took over the government with 20 State Secretarys, now I know there are 55 of them. We could call what's come to pass as a misdemeanor. As opposed to 49 former State Secretarys, 106 Deputy State Secretarys are now in place, and five prime ministers, 14 prime ministers, 15 government commissioners and 65 ministerial commissioners. Thus, these workers are also confronted with a very harsh bureaucracy and the delivery of propaganda goals. This is demonstrated by the additional HUF 5 billion spent on government communication and consultation, where the Orbán government is also trying to pay for advertising its economic performance, which is at least incomplete, without visions, with citizens who are interested in it or who have other political opinions. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-17-32	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman János Volner.
u2017-05-17-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is important to clarify why the improved balance of the Hungarian budget is due, because the government is constantly talking about the fact that this is the sole merit of the Orbán government, and it attaches the success of the economic policy that has been conducted together with György Matolcsy since 2010 and later with Mihal Varga. However, I think that at least as much, and even more so, the improving external environment has a role to play in the fact that the Hungarian economy is currently not dealing with as serious problems as, let's say, it fought in 2010. What am I thinking? In recent years, the US Central Bank has carried out a significant stimulus programme, which has also helped to improve the balance of emerging markets such as Hungary, lower public finances financing, reduced the burden of this, and in Europe it is typical that there is a economic activity, the economy is working well, and this trend of course is spreading to Hungary, which is also reflected in Hungarian economic data. However, it is important to see that when we are talking about budget planning, we must not only look at a financial balance and look at the differences in this balance, but also at other aspects, such as sustainability. It is worth checking whether the economic and social processes that will characterize and characterize Hungary in 2017 and 2018 are sustainable. First of all, we can conclude that much fewer children are born in Hungary, about half as many as would serve to maintain the permanent population of the Hungarian population. The Hungarian demographic chorus looks terrible. I note that when we said that to the pro-government representatives, they defended themselves with a slight decrease in the rate of population decline. My fellow Members, this slight decline means that the plane is not crashing into the ground at a speed of 1,000 kilometres, but at a speed of only 800 kilometres, the country is also at an end, this course is over, because this condition will not be sustainable. Around 2050, the Hungarian pension system is also unsustainable, with the government constantly increasing the retirement age. It is also important to see what the government has not done to improve the tree. Because we agree that there are family tax incentives, and even we ourselves, the good guys, have encouraged them. But if you look at the 2018 spending appropriations for maternity support, children's, children's and children's additional child-bearing subsidies, this is HUF 406.5 billion, a HUF 7.3 billion decrease in this area compared to the 2017 spending appropriations. So what's happening, ladies and gentlemen? In order to raise children, not only do the government not invest enough money in achieving the right number of children, but the planned budget funds will also be reduced by HUF 7.3 billion between the two years. [[11.30]] Well, it's a real shame of the Orbán government, which, by the way, talks about family tax incentives and support for families. Actually, the numbers look like this. It is also important to see that the emigration spirit has doubled in Hungary compared to 2010 when Viktor Orbán took over the government pole. On the one hand, when the government talks about a slight decrease in the rate of population loss, the state of the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian pension system, is still brutal and unsustainable. This is also acknowledged by the government. At the same time, the urge to emigration was tremendously strengthened. It has now become practically a trend among young people to go from Hungary to study, work, and not even to return home. It is also important to see that 78 thousand Hungarian children have been born in recent years. This is about as if every class in a primary school would be there from the first to the eighth grade, only eighth graders would be missing because they had already been born abroad. Unfortunately, this is the age-old trend right now. When we think about what happens, for example, to the large state systems for the re-production of the Hungarian workforce, health, education, we see a lot of delays, a lot of shame. Recently, we Hungarians were ashamed of the fact that the Hungarian students were among the drivers of Europe during the PISA tests. When I said that to pro-government politicians, do you know what they say to me in the hallway? Oh, John, it's not that bad, because there are too many gypsy children, and the trend is getting worse. That's your defense, ladies and gentlemen. This country will not be sustainable if you run such an education system! It is also important to see that we are also experiencing unsustainable problems with our economic growth. What am I thinking? The Hungarian economy depends essentially on three major external sources. One is the issue of EU support. I would like to point out here that we have been able to produce two to three percent economic growth over the past period, with EU funds representing 5 percent of GDP. So you can see that this trend, which currently characterizes the Hungarian economy, is, to put it mildly, unsustainable. Another reason for our addiction is foreign investments and investments. What am I thinking? If there is no Mercedes, if there is no Audi, if there are not a few companies that employ a few thousand employers, but the GDP is highly spinned, then Hungarian economic growth is rooted in the ground, stops and even turns back negative. It is also important to see what has happened in the large state systems for the re-production of labour. You have by force nationalised 3000 billion forints of private pension fund assets, forced them to take away 3 million people's private pension fund savings. They've been lying for years about how there's gonna be individual accounts and funding for future pension payments. Now, by 2017, we know that only pensioners can trust Viktor Orbán's promise, because the Orbán government, in breach of its own electoral promises, has spent the private pension fund assets that have been forced to nationalise. It is also worth looking at what happens to wages. I've been looking at a collection. In 2008 Hungarian wages reached 31.9 percent of German wages in Hungary. Two years later, only 29.7 percent, in 2015 and under the Orbán government, Hungarian wages reached just over a quarter and 25.1 percent of German wages. So once again, in 2008, 31.9 percent of the wages of a Hungarian worker were paid by a German employee and 25.1 percent in 2015. This deterioration, this dramatic deterioration, occurred during the Orbán government, which otherwise campaigned for wage growth. It is also important to point out that although the government is talking about wage growth, if we do this in a European comparison and start counting in euro what numbers we can face. In 2008, the Hungarian average wage was 10 226 euros, and in 2015 it was 9431. Ladies and gentlemen, during your governance, not only did we not have a European wage catch-up, but we have been cut off in comparison with Eastern European competitors, as compared to Europe in terms of wages. Once again, the value of Hungarian wages decreased nominally in euro between 2008 and 2015. It is also important to see what it is that still breaks the Hungarian economic aspirations into wheels. There's corruption all over the place. Orbán's friends, business partners and family members are those who grow fastest in Hungary. And young people have had enough of this, ladies and gentlemen, which is why they are leaving the country, which is why not a man looking well above the average feels coy when he looks at you and faces the results of your governance. They're simply voting for the Orbán government's policy, leaving here. Another very interesting thing is the weakness of policy. If you are serious about the fact that the automotive industry is a key sector in Hungary, it is of strategic importance, then why there is not a single miserable, evaluable integration programme to catch up with the automotive industry, so that Hungarian companies can connect to and catch up with the production of global value chains. You don't care about that. Because politics is not important, but how to give Árpád Habony, Antal Rogán's buddies, Lőrinc Mészáros a different business with such dirty offshore money. It is also important to see when the Orbán government is talking about tax incentives, who is receiving tax benefits. For example, the amount of the bank tax has decreased significantly compared to recent years. The bank tax on the balance sheet total over HUF 50 billion has been reduced by half in recent years. The credit institution's allowance was also abolished by the Orbán government with a noble simplicity. These huge tax benefits were not granted to working Hungarian people, but to credit institutions that otherwise robbed Hungarian people through foreign exchange lending, and which, by the way, made a record profit last year. The Orbán government's values can therefore be clearly seen from this: the capital, the banks, was on the side, not on the side of the working Hungarian people. It is also important to see who was entitled to the tax relief with which the Orbán government also campaigned. The budget for corporate tax in 2018 was HUF 233 billion and HUF 39.1 percent lower than the revised estimate for 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, you have granted this corporate tax benefit specifically to the largest companies, the most capitalized, the richest companies. It was not provided to Hungarian small entrepreneurs, specifically to the multinationals, to large businesses close to the government. It can also be seen that the value crisis that characterizes the Orbán government has also appeared in tax policy. If necessary, tax policy is regulated in a way that favours Lőrinc Mészáros, Andy Vajnák, growth tax credit and, for example, the casino law that has been amended countless times; on the other hand, the government uses tax policy as a club in certain business sectors it considers to be necessary to obtain. For example, in cases where the government starts doing things to corner everyone who is trying to make a living on the advertising market from purely competitive market conditions and not from government advertising. I have one more important point to discuss: the disorder of the situation of foreign exchange credentials, in which the Orbán government did not excel. What is it that we see here? We can see that the economic sector owned by the economy, primarily by Hungarian entrepreneurs, cannot grow in Hungary because the middle class lacks so-called discretionary income, i.e. the share of income that is above the costs of living and living in the strict sense. Normally, this income rate would be available, and people would buy new apartments from it, and they'd have a craftsman paint their own apartment, and they'd buy furniture and a lot of things. This could be used to spin the Hungarian economy. With the government not saving foreign exchange creditors, but sitting idle here for years, the Fidesz representatives allowed the Swiss franc exchange rate around 175 HUF to run to 250 HUF, and when it burned to their nails, foreign exchange loans were HUFed at the market rate, thus ensuring that the middle class in Hungary was stuck in the credit trap, ensuring that the discretionary income was not available and that the economy was not spinning. It's a shame, and it's your responsibility. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[11.40]]
u2017-05-17-34	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The LMP Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. It is about the pulpit that Mrs. Erzsébet Schmuck is the first.
u2017-05-17-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The planned budget for 2018 is similar to that of previous years. He struggles with the same mistakes, rolls forward the same problems, and represents the same dead-end directions as before; except for one exception that occurs because of coercive circumstances, but not out of conviction: they achieve a partial wage increase, but this does not substantially rewrite the otherwise defective concept. The result is the same: they leave a large part of society on the side of the road, who is in poverty, who is without hope that even his child will be better. This budget, as the losers of the entire Orbán system, continues to be the people who live from work, the small businesses in Hungary, the sick and the fallen, the need for help. Let's see who the losers are. The line is long and I can't list everyone. Its losers are generally civil servants, who have not been affected by a wage increase for many years, or only partially, with allowances not based on different leases and without a permanent, predictable career. In particular, his losers are municipal representatives. They haven't received a salary increase in a decade, so we need at least a 30% increase. Its losers are social workers, who have been devalued along with their entire territory, working for hunger, as care is a communist trick, at least according to the Fidesz government. Its losers are public workers, who have been employed for years, sometimes not, while they are feudal dependent on local potentates, but have no prospects. His losers are educators, educators, whose work hours were increased in the form of wage increases and their allowances were taken away, so many of them are in the same place as before. In the meantime, expensive courses must be paid out of their own pocket, often unnecessarily, because the conditions vary annually. Instead of real support, they also had the Faculty of Pedagogism and the ever-changing National Master's Plan; regular textbooks, working conditions, gymnasiums for everyday physical education are not so much. They are the losers of the budget and the past years of music teachers and other art educators, as the art training is absolutely step-alongers in this only money evaluation system. They were left behind when they received, and usually after the passage of Lajos Simicska, János Lázár, Antal Rogán, or Lőrinc Mészáros. They're pretty thorough people when it comes to squashing public funds. Although there are sometimes ideas about everyday music education, or about playing piano in every room, they do not need this, but they need a fair wage, appropriate tools and working conditions, and opportunities for improvement. This isn't happening! Losers of higher education staff, from university teachers to auxiliary staff. The anti-intellectuality of the Orbán government is seriously affecting them. Rural colleges are being cut off and chancellors are being put on their backs, and they're being bullied even further by a lack of resources. Ladies and gentlemen, The lack of resources of Hungarian higher education is also indicated by the fact that it was obliged to leave it to a private university, CEU, in research, the acquisition of essential international journals and other critical areas. Of course, the government is not moved by someone doing their job for free if Árpád Habony's great ideas are to be implemented. Losers of the system are researchers, R &amp; D workers. I mean, they barely have a chance to make it home. The anti-knowledge of the Orbán government can also be seen here. But they are the losers of the system in the university education of human science. According to the vulgaristic world view of Fidesz, they are not needed, they are not produced, they are only in ruins. Philosophy training, caring for our Hungarian language or history, which could save us from repeating the mistakes of the past, were all on the edge of the cart, in constant uncertainty. Cradle and kindergarten workers are also the losers of the system. They didn't pay the minimum or barely reach it, but it hasn't risen in many years. Only one voluntarist rule on compulsory kindergartening has been introduced, without creating the conditions. It's a key area in two ways. Early development, the social skills acquired in the first six years, are the basis of all other learning, and can no longer be replaced; this is the only reason why cradle workers should be valued. On the other hand, mothers can work at home, appreciate themselves, and they will have motivation to have another child when the supervision of their offspring is solved and in good hands. On the other hand, kindergartens are overcrowded, and the government has banned even family daycare as a sporty inconvenience, as it would crush all social self-organization, if not dependent on it. Most of the doctors are losing the system. They did not receive a desired and necessary wage increase, but there has been no sign of a systemic change in health care for seven years. The same problems - debt recycling, distorted financing structures, feudal relations - are rolled forward. No wonder whoever did this left - no wonder, but it's bad for the country. Losers of the system are nurses, health workers. It's an amazing amount and sacrifice that the government has paid for. Five thousand people have already left, and they have multiple jobs to do. The current partial wage increase is not enough to stop the process. Patients who increasingly rely on private health are the losers of the system, because despite all the efforts of employees in the public sector, there are critical shortcomings due to the lack of public funding. That way, they'll spend all their money on it. They are the losers of the system of civil society organisations. A significant proportion of them have taken on state responsibilities in the social sphere, education or precisely in areas where the state has left, in catching up, health, environmental protection, culture care. Their work was not only recognized, but they now receive the stamp. Dear House, Roughly losers of the system are the disabled and job-seekers. First, they were affected by the reviews carried out with the suspicious cheating principle, and then by the lack of jobs. The government has thrown out a significant part of their supply, saying, "Work." But he didn't care whether or not they could find a job, whether their chins would fade. The government thought that giving a small contribution allowance to employers was a solution. Unfortunately, it didn't, although it was predictable. Losers of the system are nurses, caregivers, parents of injured and sick children. Their extra burdens are not recognized, since care of the relative is not a job according to Fidesz, even if it means 24-hour service a day. National micro- and small entrepreneurs are the losers of the system. Due to the lack of markets, the lack of skilled labour, their development and potential to increase productivity are limited, even in spite of sometimes flowing investment money. The administrative burden, returns, moaning under countless taxes, which must be paid even when they have no income. Now, you're gonna have to farm the minimum wage increase. A lot of them aren't gonna make it. In addition, the Fidesz network is becoming increasingly suffocating, making progress, ordering or applying only in political favor and in return. "With work and performance, we can get ahead," said Viktor Orbán once. Today's situation could not be more the opposite of this vision. [[11.50]] But they are also the losers of the system of domestic micro- and small entrepreneurs. Most of them are registered for minimum wage, but almost everyone gets a share of their wages in their pockets; unfortunately, they will barely have a pension. The bad compromise that arose after the change of regime did not even try to break the government; namely, to allow small businesses to trick with wage burdens, to sabotage labour protection and other rules, but to maintain employment in return. They didn't want to change it. They took advantage of it. However, as always, workers are struck by whips who live in uncertainty. Their rights and interests will not be protected by a state or a union if the boss is powerful, if they get sick, if they don't pay overtime if they don't get freedom. Losers of the system are people living in the countryside, working in small towns or villages, because Fidesz has given up the countryside and the quality of maintaining rural public services. There's, like, 300 GPs missing, a pediatrician, a dentist, a long way to go. It's a long way from school, and it's hard to get a teacher for a small settlement. Public transport is sporadic, certainly not suitable for taking a job with some settlements and even for the family. The state of the roads is catastrophic. The highways are being built, but that doesn't help them. Thus, despite all other advantages - environment, community, calmer life - the countryside is rapidly depopulated. Without adequate public services, there are no movers, but there are more people going abroad. Whole counties are depopulated, like in Romania. Individual farmers are also big losers of the system. Most of the land was taken by fidesz slepps, city lawyers, oligarchs. Even if they could farm, the resuscitating feudal estate system doesn't leave a lot of chances for the little ones. Sooner or later, everyone's gonna come. And the chamber, which, by the way, could help them organize, conspire, cooperate, is also the site of the shelter and power struggle of hungry fidesz family members. In particular, bio-farmers are big losers of the system. Their growth would be vital because of the dangerously scarce resources. But like the environment, this is suspicious to the government. The destruction of Kishantos has also indicated that he ignores the rich farming that preserves values. The land and money hunger of the oligarchs is important. Therefore, the size of areas cultivated in organic farming in Europe may not have increased in a unique way, even though there would be extra support for it. Small energy entrepreneurs who would be able to install and maintain renewable energy systems are the losers of the system, creating tens of thousands of jobs and giving energy independence to municipalities. But their fate is sealed by Paks II. and the government's anti-renewable nature. Losers of the system are heritage workers, museum workers. Heritage protection, as well as environmental protection, has been brought under economic and oligarchic interests. They haven't received a salary increase for a long time, but some of the giant hupilila projects that don't affect most of them are running, such as installing the Liget or moving to the Castle. Monument protection is paid only if a noble family member accidentally bought some castles. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, So this is the picture if we look around. The government's response to all this is obviously the amount of wage increases that are being made this year. This can be mistaken for their own audiences, but the people living in each area, the representatives of each profession, know exactly what is real and what is really worth of the wage increases announced with loud noise. In many places, not even what has been lost in recent years, not to mention how they can make a living. Why is that? Why is a significant majority of the country losing to Fidesz's system, and why is this budget a sham? Unfortunately, the country has not been strengthened, the domestic economy has not been strengthened, the structural problems have not been dealt with. And a bottomless octopus settled on the state and smoked it, solitaires the public money on every channel. That is why there is tension between the apparent abundance and the bad prospects of the greater half of the country, because Fidesz sees only its own 1-2 million voters, and most of all only the 5 percent elite who are supported by all means and believes that their welfare is the well-being of the country. But if we take one step back and look at the big picture, then the budget situation is far from heartwarming, you could say, unsustainable. The fundamental problem is that the Hungarian economy and even the public sector depend on a few external sources as well as a few years ago, and these resources will be exhausted in the foreseeable future. The main source is the inflow of EU funds. We have said many times that both the development of the economy and the development of public services are critically dependent on the huge transfer of capital to 3-5 percent of GDP per year. Investments, if there is no EU money, as at the beginning of 2016, will collapse. In education, health care, in almost all areas of public services, development stops, and often even operations, if there is a low tide. We also know that this abundance of resources will be over very soon. We cannot expect that the EU support system will continue to be of the same magnitude and generous after 2020. This would lead us to try to make the best possible use of resources so that the transition of the economy to narrow years is not a shock. And what works, let's turn it into investment, especially human capital, that brings its fruits and provides a lasting basis for the economy and society when we can no longer rely on anyone else. On the other hand, the government is foolishly doing the opposite. It boosts the spending of EU funds so that they run out by 2019. What happens after that? They don't care about that. They just want to win this election, just now, with this huge money, they want to take home as much as possible while they can. The other main external source is the export and partly employment of established multinational companies. Unfortunately, even the critical Orbán government in words could not change this dependence. They couldn't confirm the domestic economy. And very soon they joined the multinationals, accepted and even helped us to remain a assembly country at the bottom of the international division of labour, where the added value does not give us much. This continued the policy of socialist-free democrat governments. Although some taxes were levied on multinationals, they could no longer prevent them from being passed on, perhaps they did not want much, since the control of the multinationals was just a sort of exchangeable password, a political product. Since then, multinationals have been constantly paved with strategic partnerships, 10 billion in investment and so-called job creation grants, tightening the labour code, repression of trade unions and exploited workers. Meanwhile, the structure of the multinational sector in Hungary has become even more distorted, almost based on the automotive industry. The automotive industry is one of the most crisis-sensitive industries, which was confirmed in 2008. Being a car worker in the world economy is not a stable position, and it certainly doesn't promise to catch up. The third external source of the Hungarian economy is a favourable international interest environment. This is mentioned less often, even though it is as important as exports of EU funds and multinationals. This enabled the Hungarian economy and budget to stabilise, so that the visible external debt would be reduced. Because of the favourable international interest environment, the central bank could continue to cut interest, not because of the genius of György Matolcsy. The international environment has allowed us to pay off our debt and save up to 1 percent of GDP on declining interest expenditure. However, this favorable environment can also end slowly. There are signs. During difficult times, we will miss the missed opportunities, the wasted resources and the years, when all they care about is grating and not the future and strengthening of the country. [[12.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, The fourth external source is the return of Hungarians working abroad. The importance of this resource will increase, but there is nothing to be happy about. The work, creativity and added value of people working abroad are extremely lacking at home. On the other hand, they were not even granted the right to vote, let alone respect. And some of the young people who were lured home to enter into business were badly deceived, led by the support of their business, but because of the totalisation of the professionally disrupted state administration, they still did not receive the funds promised a year ago. Some of their ideas were stolen quite simply and specifically. The HUF 1000 billion returned to Hungary in 2015 is next to 3 percent of GDP, and is slowly competing with the importance of EU money. Fortunately, this is not going to John Lazarus and not to him, but to the families who remain at home. This is how the otherwise slowly empty countryside, Eastern Hungary and other peripherals survive financially. But socially, honourable Members, they will not survive, because without young people, the fate of any country is sealed. And what does the government do to reduce these dependences and for a sustainable economy and society? What is reflected in this budget? You have to say it's almost nothing. But 2018 is one of the last years when something can still be done. There would be a source to make positive changes. The first of these is the increase in wages, which would make the entire domestic economy and public sector more viable and efficient, and would allow us to overcome the listed and unlisted dependences and dangers. I mean, you can't claim that there's no money right now. Where hundreds of billions go to prestige investments, into the pockets of friendly entrepreneurs, ten billion to public propaganda, there's money. It just needs to be regrouped. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-05-17-36	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Ákos Hadházy.
u2017-05-17-37	Thank you very much. Mr President, The debate on the budget is a particularly interesting thing for me. What I have seen in recent months is that the governing party is not really interested in reason and facts, so it is very ungrateful to deal with specifics and details in such a speech or in such a genre. Moreover, in today's world, there is perhaps a need for society to try to put it simply on very important issues. The budget is a very important issue, it defines everyday life for all of us, and it should be very much dealt with. The government has also tried to say one slogan about this, and you know very well that if you repeat it, there's a chance they'll believe it. I think you're wrong about that, by the way, because when you say that this budget is the budget of people from work, I really don't believe that if you invest as much as many billion forints in this as you do to advertise it, and whatever huge media excess you invest in promoting it, I don't think most people will believe that this budget is the budget of people from work. That's why I've been trying to find some slogans to show you what this budget is and what this budget is about. Perhaps the first sentence of such a summary could be that this budget is the budget of the starry, tiny section. We see huge advertising campaigns, propaganda campaigns, posters in every village about how good it is here in Hungary and how well everything is going. These posters are embarrassing the 50's and 60's propaganda when we saw how strong we were and the imperialist states were destroyed. Compared to this, this budget is the budget of the starry, small-letter section, because in respect of fairer commercial ads, it is always placed in small-letter parts that do not need to be taken seriously, this is not a real offer, go to that bank, read that 50-60-page detail, the car that you put out is just a stunt, there are not so many parts or no parts. This budget is the same, this is the starry, tiny part. Anyone who goes through this will see that the huge increases of 50, 60, 100 and 200 percent, wage increases are a humbug, they are not true, there is no general wage development on the agenda again, there is no agenda for people to really live seriously and noticeably better, even though at the moment it would be possible to do so. Another slogan I can offer you, and I think it describes the point much better than the government's sentence, and that is that this budget is not a budget for people who work, but a budget for people who work. Unfortunately, even this is not entirely true, because only in the case of multinational companies, international large companies, it can be said that this budget will benefit them, Hungarian entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs and medium-sized entrepreneurs will not benefit at all. Let me say a word or word composition that may be known to very few, and I didn't know it either, until I read the virtually negative prosecutorial response to András Horváth's complaint. I read in it that it's a tax ruling. Conditional tax assessment - a very interesting word. This is about giving special rules to multinational large companies, they can tax under special rules, and otherwise in this document, which is a very important age document, the prosecutor's decision to close the procedure initiated by András Horváth, is described in the fact that top national tax experts say that multinationals cannot be touched because they are subject to a tax ruling. That's not true in itself, either, but the way these people think about the tax authorities, that says more than anything. This budget is the budget of those who work for others, but unfortunately it is not the budget of Hungarian small entrepreneurs and Hungarian medium-sized entrepreneurs, but the budget of international entrepreneurs and large enterprises. LMP is not anti-multi-national, we are not saying that these companies have to leave, we are asking that these companies be at least on the same level as small businesses in Hungary. We do not want to drive them away, we do not want to suppress them, but we are asking them to enjoy at least the same advantages as small businesses in Hungary. We should get this far at least, there's no record of it in this budget. I still have a password to talk about, which we have also heard from the government, more and more in the last few weeks, when you say that if there is work, then there is everything - you could also say that the work will set you free. If you have a job, everything has a fake password, I don't know if you're convinced of it, or you're just saying it because that's what your marketing guy or their PR guy said you have to say. Work isn't enough, work isn't enough. The important thing is to have a good job for people, it is to have a creative work, a well-paid, motivated job. Giving everyone a job, a job like that, a slave job, that's not enough, it's only good to produce subjects, subjects who, because of addiction, will be happy to vote - or, if not with pleasure, but discipline - for the governing party. If there is work, then everything has to be said instead of words or sentences, that if there is knowledge, then there is everything. That's what's missing in the budget. If that were the password, that if there was knowledge, then there was everything, then in the budget we would spend much more than we currently have on teaching, learning, education, that is what a responsible politician and a true politician could do in a budget. That's what this budget lacks most. Finally, with reference to my fellow Member, Mr Schmuck's speech, I could also say the slogan on this budget that this budget is a budget for theft. Because this budget is based on squandering EU funds. Very few people think that the money that the government distributes - now they don't even say they're handing me out - is going to be thrown out, played out, or thrown out the window - roughly a third of these money goes back into the budget. It goes back in the form of taxes, contributions, and simply gives the budget a reserve, a buffer, which the Hungarian government does not use responsibly, but is sporadic. In addition, he said and boasts that he would actually spend all the money until 2018 or 2019 at the most, and he would have had the opportunity to do so until 22:00, but he wants to spend it now, in a few years. In a few years, we can live terribly well, rather than say that the government lives well, and then comes the great nothing, and then comes the collapse. [[12.10]] Last time, Minister Lázár boasted what we wanted, because the names we mentioned, Mészáros, Garancsi, Tiborcz, Andy Vajna received 5 percent of the EU's money, which was HUF 500 billion in the previous cycle. This budget is the budget of these people, not the budget of those who work. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-17-38	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the keynote speeches. We now have the first independent Member to speak, so I give the floor to Mrs Zsuzsanna Szelényi.
u2017-05-17-39	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, As every year, our main question is what is the purpose of a good budget. The good budget should reflect that this country, Hungary, is a perspectivist for young people. Today, one in six Hungarian children are born abroad, this is the perspective in Hungary. The migration of people under 40 is dramatic. So we need a budget that shows a picture of a country that takes people into account, not just the 3 million people that Fidesz needs to win the election. You have talked about security several times today. I believe that there is security where people trust each other and their partners, and where there is confidence in the word of the government. Can the current government budget of 18 outline a perspective for which young people want to start a family here in this country, not as migrants abroad? What does your budget say? I think it radiates that I am in power, do not worry, I will solve your lives, at least until tomorrow; everyone gets bread, circus, just vote for us next year. The 2018 budget is preparing for the elections. The government expects wonderful economic growth, projected a 4.3 percent increase - no other forecast, not even the Fiscal Council, has confirmed this. Moreover, this positive growth forecast does not build on the better productivity of the Hungarian economy, but basically expects the growth of the economy from large public investments called from the European Union in a forced march. Like all socialist-type forced marches, this is a big risk, these are fast and poorly spent money, which Hungary will miss very much between 2019 and 23, because next year the government wants to spend everything we get from the European Union for seven years. The 12.9 percent increase in investment planned in the budget would result exclusively from public investment based on EU funds. However, the reality is that nobody invests in Hungary, even the Hungarians take their money abroad, who can and can take their money away from here, which is no wonder, because Hungary has the worst investment environment in the whole region. If the EU's money tap didn't come overnight, it would turn out that the king is naked, there is no domestic growth in this country. It should also be added that many more countries in the region, like us, can make 5-6 percent increase in EU transfers, as opposed to Hungary. All the weaknesses of the Orbán government's economic policy are shown here: therefore, there is no domestic growth, there is no productivity in this country, there is no added value to export activity, there is no investment in the country, there is no investment in the country, only what comes from EU money - for now. The biggest mistake in the budget is that you don't plan on the future, you spend all the money you have right now. They work with huge waste, terrible corruption, no meaningful investment in the long term. You have been in power for seven years, but there has been no serious, forward-looking human resources investment in this country, public education and health care are failing. Not only is there no added export added value in Hungary today, but it will not be ten years from now. Some people's well-being is at the expense of the rest of them. In Hungary there is no lending, ownership is not stable - no wonder the economy is not going forward. Your budget is about eating Hungary's future bread while we do not sow wheat and we do not raise bakers. [[István Szilárd Németh: Have you been to the countryside? They're taking the wheat!]] Dear House, It is scary what you spend next year on everything, what you don't spend on: 106 billion forints on Paks; 64 billion forints on Puskás Ferenc Stadium; 150 billion unplanned money on the Modern Cities, even the President of the Board of Budgets has resented it; 20 billion forints on the campaign ministry of Rogán; and 6 billion forints on the whole next year's elections. Dear House, We found 600 billion HUF in the 2018 budget, which we propose for redeployment, which is in an unnecessary place, and we make better plans. We do not see the future in the campaign spending without necks, but in the long term we want to establish Hungary's future. Our budget proposals aim to ensure that the government does not steal people's money in the form of unnecessary large investments, which we believe should be invested in the future. Our aim is to increase Hungary's competitiveness in the long term, so that Hungarian young people do not want to leave Hungary, so that there is a balanced relationship between women and men, because we believe that the partnership between people, including between men and women, is the most successful and the most meaningful. Balanced relations also increase the participation of women in the labour market among the sexes, which can contribute several percent to Hungary's GDP. We are convinced that this will make more children born and born here in Hungary. We will therefore submit the following amendments to you. We recommend that the government increase the state school normative, put money where it is needed, so that all children can learn successfully by the age of 18 and receive the help that is needed for personal effectiveness - this is the basis of the modern education system. We need to increase the number of graduates. We recommend that the first degree be free of tuition, and that three years of university language education be free of tuition, that all Hungarian university students be able to speak English to understand what is going on in the world. And we're suggesting that we release everyone's debt to Student Loan 2. Industrialisation failed as a strategic goal in Hungary fifty years ago. In the future world, those who can easily gain new knowledge will be able to make a living, preferably at the highest possible level. That's what you spend your country's money on. We propose a special source to ensure that as many girls as possible choose the science and IT career. Over the next decade, new jobs will basically be opened in these areas, which should also be available to women. Tonight, stereotypes prevent girls from going into science. This can promote the growth of Hungarian GDP by 2-3 percent in the next 10-20 years. In this perspective, we are thinking about the budget, not next year. We propose to increase the minimum pension rate, which has not increased in ten years to specifically reduce poverty in old age, which, unfortunately, is once again the main burden on women. It is recommended that we increase the child's income by HUF 10 000, which is a uniform income for all children, and it is extremely low today. We recommend introducing the father child in order to provide men with a life experience of raising young children, which can be proven to increase the lives of men, while also helping women to get to work as soon as possible after the birth of a child. We recommend the introduction of a crèche voucher so that parents can work flexibly in the smallest settlement, while their young child will be provided with reassuring care. We propose the implementation of the Istanbul Convention and finally establish a soothing system for preventing violence against women and domestic violence in Hungary. [[12.20]] Since this issue has been on the agenda in this House, every week a woman continues to die of domestic violence. It is quite amazing that you are putting up with it this way, when we know that this can be changed with no great political will. Finally, we propose the establishment of fundamental institutions that prevent and severely sanction corruption on an astonishing scale in Hungary. We recommend that Hungary set up an anti-corruption prosecution, which is impartially and rigorously sanctioning large-scale corruption. We recommend that Hungary join the European Public Prosecutor's Office, because according to the data, the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office cannot or does not want to do anything with the fact that a significant proportion of European funds lose their public finances. We also recommend that Hungary join the European Center for the Prevention of Hybrid Threats in order to avoid any other influence threatening Russian and other national interests. It is completely incomprehensible why this is not on the agenda of the Hungarian Government. In addition, we will propose local investments that can indeed be planned, which are transparent and which people really need. Dear House, In order to prevent the lack of transparency of the budget and the lack of transparency of early planning, we recommend that every six months the Ministry review and report to us on the state of the budget and on how the government touches the budget lines during the year. Honourable Members, Together doesn't plan bread and circuses. We are not trying to maximize the present and leave nothing for the generations after us. We want a country where we equip our young people with knowledge, skills, spiritual and financial resources, so that Hungary can be a developing, innovative and future-looking country from Hungary's supplier country. Our goal is that more and more people think that it is worth planning their future here in Hungary. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-05-17-40	Thank you. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the German ethnic advocate Ritter Imre, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his native language, then translate it into Hungarian and also give his speech about the pulpit.
u2017-05-17-41	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschläges Nr. T/15381. uber den ungarischen Haushalt - im Zusammenhang mit den Nationalitätenbedarf übergreifende Teilen - erörtere. Wie es schon gewöhnt ist - wenn es gesagt werden kann - fange ich meinen Diskussionsbeitrag mit einem Zitat von Johann Wolfgang von Goethe an. Er hat gesagt:., Toleranz sollte eigentlich nur eine vorübergehende Gesinnung sein: sie muss zur Anerkennung führen. Dulden heißt bezidigen. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position on the central budget for 2018, T/15381. Bill No.2 on the parts of the legislation concerning ethnic needs. My comment to the bill - if you can say so, now traditionally - begins with the quote by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, who said: "The tolerance can only mark a temporary condition that should lead to recognition. Accepting in itself is an insult. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Let me briefly explain Goethe's quote on ethnicities in Hungary. From the perspective of acceptance, tolerance from a nationality, it's like they just tolerate, tolerate their presence. For centuries, they have added their knowledge, their work, their talents to the prosperity of the country in which they lived and whose citizens they were. If necessary, they sacrificed their lives for Hungary! So acceptance is not enough. Only acceptance in itself is an insult. We want more, we expect more - recognition. Our ancestors' lives provide a sufficient basis for recognition. We're still working on it. It's a condition of recognition, and it's based on knowledge. Therefore, allow me to start with a little reflection on the situation of the nationalities living in Hungary at the beginning of the cycle, what and how we have been able to move forward in the previous three years, where we are today, what tasks we have ahead of us, because without having sufficient knowledge of these, it is not possible to assess the past years or the national needs relating to the central budget for 2018 in a realistic manner, to address them and to make appropriate government and parliamentary decisions. Nearly three years ago, at the closure of the 2013 central budget, I started by saying that we are at the same time in an easy and difficult situation. On the one hand, the easy situation was caused by the fact that, unfortunately, we Hungarian nationalities had little to do with the drafting of the budget laws of 2013 - and the years before - and even decades before - so that we could give an honest opinion on its implementation without any responsibility. On the other hand, we were in a difficult situation, because that first minority Parliamentary contribution should have taken place more than twenty years earlier, so we have to eliminate almost two decades of failure in every respect as soon as possible. Then, for minutes, it was possible and had to be classified, for decades, what an unworthy state the nationalities in Hungary had been forced to live and operate. As an example and as a reminder, the so-called NMZ frameworks available for the operational support and support of national minority civil society organisations did not change between 2002 and 2014 and covered only a fraction of the incoming needs of 10-15 percent. The budget of HUF 30 million at the time for the native school camps was so low compared to the needs that there was virtually no point in applying either. On average, the annual operating support of the municipal self-governments was HUF 222 thousand gross per year, corresponding to HUF 14 500 per month net. In the national minority self-governments, economic, financial and administrative costs increased, without increasing subsidies, due to changes in public finance legislation and increased tasks by various legal requirements. In summary, it was necessary to say that the support of nationalities living in Hungary was in a miserable state, and that was still a very fine expression of the actual situation. With the 2014 parliamentary elections, Parliament's representation was provided to 13 Hungarian nationalities, which opened up new opportunities for us. The first serious result of the parliamentary representation was that we were able to achieve a breakthrough in the 2015 Central Budget Act by increasing the support of less than HUF 4 billion - and has been unchanged for many years - by around HUF 2 billion, by more than 50 percent. Less than half a year later, the 2016 Central Budget Act again received a significant increase of HUF 2 billion and HUF 63,4 million, and then the 13 nationalities living in Hungary received a moderate increase of HUF 678.1 million in the 2017 Central Budget Act. As a combined effect of the three years, we were able to achieve substantial, meaningful improvements in the following areas. The operating and cultural support funding framework of national minority NGOs could be increased from HUF 110 million to HUF 350 million, i.e. more than three times. [[12.30]] The existing 30 million HUF framework for minority mother tongue student camps was raised to HUF 360 million, i.e. 12 times. I would add that we have always, everywhere and in every situation, treated the mother tongue student camps as a top priority, and even this framework provides only some of the objective, realistic needs. I'll talk about this in detail for the next two days. Thirdly, we have doubled the overall operating support of local ethnic authorities to three times the so-called task-based differentiated support framework. Fourthly, we were able to increase the support of the institutions maintained by national minority authorities and national minority authorities in 2015 and 2017, thus addressing the most pressing funding problems. Fifthly, we have been able to provide additional support frameworks with several individual decisions in important areas, such as support for ethnic theatres or complementary support for local minority self-governments receiving the maintenance of national minority institutions and receiving national minority public education institutions. Last but not least, what we also considered to be particularly important for our future is that a new title has been opened in the budget to provide a framework for the investment, renovation and tendering of ethnic public education and cultural institutions operating in the maintenance of national minority self-governments. Last year, during the general debate of the 2017 Central Budget Act, I concluded at this point by saying that, after all these extremely joyful, long-awaited changes, we believe that this is a moment when all the problems, tasks and tensions that still exist need to be thanked without reservation, and that is what I am doing now. On behalf of the nationalities living in Hungary, I would like to thank the government and the Hungarian Parliament again for their increases in minority support over the last three years. Thank you. However, in addition to the specific figures, these increases should be managed and evaluated in place by a full review of the situation of nationalities in Hungary. As early as the preparation of the 2017 Central Budget Act, we were confronted with the situation that, on the one hand, who looked at the very positive changes and figures in 2015 and 2016, and only knew them, he saw them, he had every right to suggest that the nationalities in Hungary had received a serious increase in support over the previous two years compared to the general increase in the budget. And from that point of view, they are undoubtedly right. Secondly, who sees the situation of nationalities living in Hungary comprehensively, the decades of complete process, the content behind the numbers, how deep we started to maintain our mother tongue, identity, traditions, the transfer to our children, and even more today, the extent to which we are in the last hour, and how far we are in the last hour, it also knows that the last two years, now three years, have only been enough to hold onto us, to have faith again, and to take a new impetus on the path that can ensure the survival of nationalities living in Hungary. The consultation and understanding of these two viewpoints, opinions and the establishment of an appropriate consensus have also been a feature of the process of reconciliation of national needs in relation to the draft central fiscal law in 2017. Third, the draft central budget law for 2017 has been drawn up and submitted in a new structure. In the last year there have been very intensive discussions on regulatory issues, there have been noticeable and practical differences between professional wallets on the one hand, and the views of Hungarian ethnicities at NEB and ONO level have differed from those of the professional wallets on several substantive issues. I therefore believe it is important that the united position of the nationalities in Hungary, its essence, be expressed here and now. Firstly, over the past two and a half years, we have mentioned several times in our speeches in Parliament that, as clearly positive changes have been in the numerical increase in national minority support, there have been, in our view, sometimes wrong attempts and sometimes wrong decisions in regulatory areas. In particular, the management rules of municipal authorities were automatically drawn to local minority self-governments, which are completely unviable. On the other hand, national self-governments have been tried to include or classify among civil society organisations supported by the application system, which would significantly limit their self-management and conflict with the principle of self-government, the cultural autonomy of nationalities. Thirdly, instead of encouraging economic, long-term farming, rational savings are prohibited by making it difficult for national authorities to fulfil their basic tasks, in many cases forcing them to waste management. Rethinking and regulating all these issues has been accelerated and urgent by the new system of the 2017 budget. Finally, before the adoption of the budget, we came to a compromise transitional regulation that was acceptable to us. At the same time, we agreed with NGM and EMMI that the 2017 rules on the granting, use and settlement of aid are temporary and, based on the experience of the 2017 Central Budget Act, we will re-examine and generate a comprehensive overview of the regulatory issues relating to minority self-governments. After all this, we have reached the national needs related to the Central Budget Act 2018, which we need to go back briefly to the beginning of the cycle to understand and interpret. In 2015, we started to establish our first budgetary need by setting out that we consider the support of national minority education institutions in all aspects as the number one priority of nationalities living in Hungary, the support of the education and education of nationalities. This is the foundation for the survival of our nationalities. Then it was immediately necessary to add that, despite this, we cannot present a well-founded amendment to improve the situation of ethnic public education institutions, because we simply do not have the appropriate surveys, concrete, numerical data. The preparation of the 2016 Central Budget Act was therefore started in February 2016, but it was found in March 2016 that the submission and approval of the law was brought forward by the government to the spring session from the usual end of the year, which we supported and welcomed then and today, but we were once again in a position not to carry out the surveys needed for a well-founded amendment proposal. [[Nándor Gúr will take his place in the notary's seat.]] During the preparation of the 2017 budget, although the need for and elements of the National Kindergarten Teachers' and Nationality Teachers' Program have already been discussed in advance with the Secretary of State and Minister of the Specialty, but because of the demonstrations and reorganisations that started with KLIK and other educational issues, it has not been possible to prepare a proposal once again, as there was no definitive government intention, no appropriate parliamentary decisions have yet been made, so it was not possible to know what scope we had and will have for our institutions. Therefore, the compilation of the package of programmes for national minority public education institutions had to be moved to the 2018 budget year. Accordingly, from September 2016, we have drawn up a programme in which we have assessed the actual situation of the national minority preschools of nationalities living in Hungary, of the national kindergarten teacher's attendance for five years and five years in advance of certain points. [[12.40]] Secondly, with the seven universities and colleges conducting basic and/or supplementary education in Hungary, we also surveyed the situation and future opportunities of the national kindergarten teacher in advance for five years and for two years on a number of questions. Finally, we analyzed the problems related to the quality and content of the education of national children's educators, the POK, the national peds and professionals, and the possibilities for solving them. Following a detailed analysis of the data available on the basis of a full survey, it can be concluded in a sentence that the situation is more tragic than previously assumed. We have discussed the direction and concrete possibilities of possible and necessary measures for improvement with the Education Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, the Association of National Governments, of course with the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, its subcommittees, the universities and educational professionals. On this basis, we have established a complete programme of national children's educators and ethnic teachers, which is the backbone of the national needs related to the 2018 central budget, the sum of which is HUF 2 billion and HUF 416 million per year. This includes an increase in the number of teachers in primary education and supplementary training in nationalities, the quality of the training, in particular the substantial improvement of nationality language and nationality content, the financial coverage necessary for the holding of national preschool teachers, including compensation for the corresponding costs of occupational kindergartens, adequate incentives for universities and colleges as well as contractual scholarship support for students participating in the training, to ensure that after the training they start the teaching course. The other part of the programme would significantly increase the nationality bonus for more than a thousand national kindergarten educators and nearly two thousand ethnic educators, who are entitled to a minority allowance, thus helping to keep them on track, increasing their appreciation. I will describe in detail the details of the minority kindergarten teacher's and educator's survey and programme, as well as the support needs of 1.1 billion other ethnic areas in my comments tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit.
u2017-05-17-42	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I now give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő on the possibility of rejoining what has been said so far.
u2017-05-17-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, There have been a lot of statements in the keynote speeches, which, I think, are simply not in line with the number of budgets for 2018 before the Honourable Parliament. Therefore, allow me to highlight these factual and factual errors. At the same time, I must respond to the general statement made by the two prominent speakers of the Socialist Party. They believe that next year's budget bill is a budget for injustice and corruption. If I try to interpret these words, I see under the word injustice that there is a different economic policy philosophy between the Socialist Party and the government. We believe that a proportionate single-key personal income tax system encourages employment. We believe that instead of aid, it is worth living from work for everyone, for the individual, and this gives the community as a whole a greater potential for growth for the country as a whole. In this respect, I must argue with the statement that next year's budget is a budget for injustice. If I approach this next year's draft budget law from a social point of view, it was just in yesterday's debate that all those who are unable to work, what additional benefits they may see in 2018 or how pensions are rising. Not to mention, those who work may experience wage increases not only in these payment categories, but also in the larger pay categories, due to the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. I can already interpret the word "beneficial corruption" in part, because, let's say, the processes we see in line with metro 4 really have a budgetary impact [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP, among them: Lőrinc Mészáros! Árpád Habony! Andy Vajna!]] , cases such as the construction of metro 4 if combined with the Commission's repayment will result in a significant budget expenditure. In this respect, therefore, corruption cases can indeed have a budgetary impact. On the other hand, the adjective that Member Bertalan Tóth said in the debate, namely that there is a Mob government, I must strongly reject this in the name of all those who work in the government or the government with honor and integrity. [[A statement from Jobbik: It's fair, but don't ask the first million.]] Then allow me, in accordance with my first sentence, to speak from the numerical part of next year's draft budget law. It has been said that fewer resources are available for health, education and social systems, and that favourable budget figures are due only to the government drawing funds from these sectors. With all due respect, I would ask honourable Members to present next year's draft budget law under negotiation and to raise the budget law of 2017 and the budgetary laws of the previous years. You can't read what you're saying from these laws or from the bill. Let's take a look at some areas. In the field of health, the so-called functional expenditure according to the narrow EU methodology, OECD methodology, is worth 102,3 billion forints more in 2018 than in 2017 if the Honourable Parliament accepts the Government's proposal. There is an extra HUF 81,3 billion available for education, HUF 82.5 billion for public security, HUF 205.1 billion for economic development, HUF 80.7 billion for catching up purposes. I could continue the line, not do this, not stall. Anyone who wants to know the factual figures of next year's draft budget law may refer to the draft budget law, where the planned expenditure for each area in 2017 and 2018. I would like to mention in more detail in one area: social security and welfare services. I would ask honourable Members to look at the categories of expenditure behind this main group. For example, unemployment. You're right, we're spending less on unemployment than we did five, six, seven years ago, but that's something to be happy about. Pensions: it has been said many times, I hope I cannot say anything new, but I am forced to say it again and again, the real value of pensions has not remained in recent years, but, as has been said, it has increased by around 10% in real terms. Now, in the 2018 budget, we can talk not only about the fact that the real value of pensions remains, but also about the possibility of paying a pension premium on the basis of the economic projections. [[Interventions from the ranks of the MSZP: The election is coming, Mr. Secretary of State. That's the election budget!]] I'm also talking about the election budget. I can hear what the Congresswoman is saying, and I heard it when the lead speakers mentioned it, and unfortunately I didn't just hear it, but I saw, let's say, in 2002 and 2006, what the election budget means, you know exactly. If you don't know, I want you to look at Eurostat's public figures. They will see that in Hungary, in the year of the elections, the deficit vanished, that in professional forums they were not talking about countercyclical or pro-cyclical fiscal policy, but they were talking about electoral cyclical policy. But if it is not appropriate or if you do not want to look back at 2002, 2006, please look at the measures taken by the government in 2010 to avoid collapse. Take a look at how much those measures have improved the state of the budget. The original deficit target was 3.8 percent. The original, above 3. What do you think the deficit would have been if the government hadn't taken immediate economic stabilisation measures? So, to put forward an indication of the election budget for a budget proposal with a deficit of 2.4 per cent of GDP, where organisations independent from the government, the State Audit Office and the Fiscal Council consider this budget proposal to be realistic, to set up an election budget for a proposal that international organisations say that in 2018 the country could achieve a deficit of less than 3 per cent, I think it is irresponsible. [[12.50]] In eight points, Mr Attila Mesterházy described the problems that characterize the government's economic policy and, therefore, the draft budget law for 2018. Since, in my view, these statements are controversial on the basis of factual data, allow me to respond point by point to these points. The first point was that Hungary's competitiveness has fallen dramatically. I agree with Mr President that there are indicators where we still have work to do on Hungary's competitiveness, and I also agree that there is a number of indicators where Hungary's competitiveness has been reduced. But my statement is that the indicator to which you referred, Mr President, contains a significant part of subjective elements. My statement is that we must also deal with these, which is why the Government has put forward proposals to the Honourable Parliament in recent weeks to improve competitiveness, for example in order to allow companies to access public services and public utility services more quickly. But I also claim that we should look at some objective indicators in addition to subjective numbers. Let's look at the current account balance. I think that if a country exports more than it imports, it shows the competitiveness of companies, it shows that companies operating on the domestic market can sell abroad. My statement is that we are currently dealing with a significant surplus of the current account as opposed to the deficits seen before 2010. My claim is that competitiveness is also shown by how money market and real economy investors judge the country's economic situation. And my statement is that the decline in money market yield levels, the increase in demand for sovereign debt shows that money market investors trust Hungary, trust Hungary more than five or six years ago, and this can be traced back to competitiveness. My statement is that the actions and new investments of real economic investors show that they trust Hungary, they think that they can increase their own competitiveness by operating here. I could continue the line: unemployment or GDP growth; but I am moving on to the point that Member Attila Mesterházy mentioned as the second. He claims that the expansion of the Hungarian economy is low compared to regional competitors. Undoubtedly, there are some numbers of growth in countries in the area where we can see better data every year. But once again, my claim is to look at all the macroeconomic numbers. Let's see if the country's overall performance in terms of growth, employment, public finances, government debt, inflation was good for the main macroeconomic figures. And that is my statement, but not only my statement, but also the European Commission's statement that, yes, Hungary has done well, and in their view, this good performance will continue in the future. I know that they are skeptical about government figures, so allow me to present the European Commission's public data published on 11 May. Although I did this yesterday, I am also obliged to say this when assessing macroeconomic developments. According to the European Commission, in 2017 the Hungarian economy will grow to the fifth largest of the 28 Member States. They calculate 3.6 percent; they know the first quarter data: this is 4.1 percent. I stress, again, the fifth largest growth rate; Romania is ahead of us, and the economic growth rate of the other countries will be lower than that of Hungary, according to the European Commission. Unemployment rate. Of the 28 Member States, the European Commission believes that the third lowest unemployment rate will be in Hungary in 2017. Let's look at where we stood, say, in 2010, and look at some countries that are in a similar economic situation. I also see an unemployment rate of over 20 percent. In view of this, I think that the 4.1 percent unemployment rate calculated by the Commission is very favourable. Budget balance - speaking of an election budget - is calculated with a deficit of 2.3 per cent. State debt. We remember that in 2010 Hungarian government debt was about 10 percentage points higher than the EU average. Now they see that at the end of the year the Hungarian government debt will be more than 10 percent lower than the EU average, which, by the way, lowered the EU average by the measure of Greek debt consolidation, the significant waiver of Greek debt. I could continue the line with the current balance of payments and other data, but I will not bore the Honourable Parliament. One thing I ask: when we evaluate the macroeconomic figures of the 2018 budget, look at government projections if you do not believe in them, look at the European Commission's projections or look at the prognosis of national and foreign institutions independent of the government. Government debt is barely falling. I just mentioned the data. Once again, if you do not believe the government's numbers, look at the figures on Eurostat's public website: there are three or four countries in the European Union that have been able to reduce the public debt-to-GDP ratio every year since 2011. And this is important, the debt-to-GDP ratio is what we need to monitor on the basis of legislation and on the basis of economic policy considerations. Poverty has increased, that was the fourth claim. I need data, specific numbers. It is easy to say that poverty has increased. We need to see specific numbers. And we also need to think about how poverty could have increased if the income of people living from work with the lowest incomes had increased. How could poverty have increased if unemployment had fallen? So what they're saying just doesn't work out. They're average earners. Wages have been rising for 50 months, which is reported by the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, but when it comes to the discussion of the 2018 draft budget law, I highly recommend that you look at page 262 of the bill, and that contains the facts of 2016. Net average earnings increase of 7.8 per cent. In 2017 we calculate an average net income increase of 11 per cent and in 2018 we calculate an average income increase of 8.8 per cent. Let's look at the last fact: 7.8 percent. How can they talk about injustice or poverty when in 2016 the personal income tax rate fell by 1 percentage point? Everyone, the lower earners and the middle or higher earners, paid less tax on their gross wages. How can we talk about injustice when the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage have increased? How can we talk about injustice when the wages of the public workers have increased? And how can we talk about injustice when the scope of tax incentives has been extended? Simply with the legislative changes and the facts before us, your statements are not in line. The statement is as follows: the forint is weaker than it was in 2010. The forint floats freely. There are countries where monetary policy there cannot afford this, the forint is floating freely. Please take a look at the range in which this exchange rate change takes place. Or look at how the Hungarian forint responded to this process after the Brexit and how the currencies of some other European countries reacted to this process. If we look at these statistics, my statement is that the exchange rate of the forint changes within a few percent band. So again, I see that the numbers, the facts, do not support the statement. The following statement, which has been made in several keynote speeches, is that the Hungarian economy is kept alive solely by EU funds. If I want to be very simple, I have not mentioned Greece as an example elsewhere, but let me mention here: Greece has been a net beneficiary of the European Union since its accession. [[13.00]] If EU funds were to determine the growth of a country, Greece would have to soar. And if EU aid results in economic growth, in contrast, countries which contribute to the EU budget should experience an economic downturn. According to this logic, Greece should soar and Germany should die. That's not the case! And let's look at how the Hungarian real economic processes evolved, let's say, after the accession in 2004, when Hungary, as a full member of the European Union, was able to obtain significant EU funds. And if I added that budget policy was also extremely loose and the population was indebted, then the economy should have soared. But it wasn't! I therefore claim that European Union funds do contribute to the extent to which the economy is expanding, but it is the quality of economic policy that determines whether there is economic growth in a given country or not, and the extent to which economic growth is. I repeat, of course, the use of European Union funds contributes to the expansion of the economy, but in my view and according to these international and domestic examples, it is the quality of economic policy that has a decisive impact on the expansion of the economy. Tax centralisation: that was the 8th point that Congressman Attila Mesterházy mentioned. Let us look at the facts for the first time: in 2010, according to the EU methodology, tax centralization was 38,5 percent, and in 2018 we calculate 37.5 percent, i.e. by reducing tax centralization by 1 percentage point. But what is also, I think, is particularly important and should be considered, is that if tax revenues are increased thanks to the whitening of the economy, due to the fall in the so-called tax gap, it should be welcomed. We should be glad that the proceeds that have so far been hidden are being transferred into the budget. I think it should be welcomed that, thanks to the online cash register system, thanks to the EKÁER system and the other economic whitening measures, the revenue that does not come into the budget in 2010 is today. So it is an additional revenue that increases tax centralisation and that should be welcomed. What else does it have to do with tax centralization? Development of tax rates. In 2016, 2017, and in the tax rules related to the 2018 budget, we are looking at significant tax reductions or the extension of tax incentives; I am thinking of VAT reductions or the expansion of the family benefits of two children. The following statement concerned the number of sovereign debt, according to which Hungarian government debt figures are not credible. First of all, I would like to note that official deficit and debt figures are not sent to Eurostat by the government in all Member States, but by the organisation responsible for statistics, KSH in Hungary. In each country, the statistical office collects these numbers, and in each country there is an institutional structure on the basis of which these official data are sent to Eurostat by that organisation. Eurostat will then review the data. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] What you have referred to, Mr President, is a comment by Eurostat, which you have noted not only in relation to the provision of Hungarian data, but also in other countries. Eurostat did not say that the numbers were not real, it did not say that the Hungarian government had rewritten the figures. We saw a country that did this. Eurostat simply corrected its data. He said that he had a professional debate on which organisations should be classified in the government sector according to the EU methodology. That's an important difference. I would add that Hungary is not the only one having a debate on this issue with Eurostat, but a number of countries. This is about whether we stand up for our own interests, whether we want to defend our own right or not. We say that we have arguments, then let us stand up for the interests of Hungary. In addition, we are proposing to Eurostat to follow full transparency. With regard to Eximbank and other similar organisations in the European Union, we are asking you to follow full transparency. The early budget has failed, the numbers are fictitious. It is recalled that last year's budget and this year's budget were adopted by the government at the end of the spring session. Let's check his numbers, see if he failed or not. Last year alone, instead of a 2 percent deficit, there was a 1.8 percent deficit with an amendment in the course of the year, which gave rise to additional expenditure in addition to additional revenues. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát suggested that the government consciously plans the figures for inflation figures. Mr Congressman, if that were the case, we should not be talking about the fact that pensions had an increase in real value of around 10 percent. After all, the planned inflation and the increase in pensions have been accompanied on several occasions in recent years by much less perceived inflation. There have been years in which inflation was in the negative range, mainly thanks to the cuts in overhead. If the government, as he said, wanted to play tricks, it would not count on an economic expansion of over 3.5 percent and would not include the pension premium in the amendment of this year's budget law or next year's budget. So there's no tricks. And if fact inflation were less than planned, then in November everyone would receive an additional pension increase, thus preserving the real value of pensions is absolutely guaranteed. Housing. The government's basic goal is that everyone who wants to have their own home can also have this home. That's why he introduced and expanded the home creation program. In addition, the government intends to provide support from the Employment Fund for the construction of modern workers' hostels. So the main direction, the basic direction for the existence of own property, is to provide government assistance. But again, there are additional measures. Why own property? The majority of the Hungarian population, unlike, for example, the population of the United States of America, considers it important to have their own real estate. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Congressman! That's what you can argue with. That's what the statistics show me. For this reason, the government intends to support the existence of a home, and the amount of the corresponding appropriation will continue to increase substantially in 2018 compared to 2017. The sale of real estate by the Academy of Sciences. Those revenues were not used for current expenditure. The Academy of Sciences is independent of the government, but, of course, we are in regular consultation with the Academy of Sciences. I can assure you, Congressman, that the sales you have mentioned are covered by the Academy of Sciences. The 2018 Budget Law proposal also contains figures for the Academy of Sciences that provide current budget support for current expenditure. We do not expect to be able to finance current expenditure on the basis of a loss of assets. At the National Defence Fund, Mr President, you have referred to the amendment of the 2017 Budget Act, as there is an amendment containing the numbers mentioned by the Member. I think that responsible planning and, in this respect, previous planning are also part of the fact that reserves are available with an increased amount. The positive part of this practice is not only seen by the Fiscal Council and the State Audit Office, but, again, by both domestic and international investors. In response to the need for a wider presentation of companies in the government sector, I can say that next year's draft budget law before the Honourable Parliament contains a very detailed description of the revenue and expenditure of the central budget. However, in order to provide as much information as possible to the Honourable Parliament, we will present the expected development of the local government's expenditure and revenue numbers, and we will also present the list of state firms to be classified as state-owned according to the EU methodology. This justification is given on page 317, listing specifically the companies whose financial position is to be taken into account in the position of the broad state. Of course, together with the financial position of these organisations, we see that next year's deficit target of 2.4 percent is realistic. What about EU money? I hope that sustainable growth. Not only because the quality of economic policy is, in my opinion, decisive in terms of growth and employment and, therefore, changes in the quality of life that everyone can see, but also because the government wants to devote a significant part of the aid, 60% of it, directly to economic development. The professional background of this is that if we support businesses, who can expand their capacity, who can operate with greater efficiency and greater production, this greater performance will still be the life cycle of the entire investment, even after receiving the aid. [[13.10]] As opposed to the use of EU funds, where, let's say, a stoning is a nice thing, a good thing, and it is often necessary, but beyond the immediate, so-called demand effect, there is no longer-term economic recovery effect of the given investment in the field, unless tourism is so boosted. I apologize if I have fallen too far into my professional depth, but I am obliged to mention these changes, so that it is clear that, even after the exit or decline of EU funds, we will expect substantial economic growth, and we will define economic policy instruments in this context. Very briefly with regard to labour statistics: as has been said, we are not talking about statistics of you or of the government when we see positive labour data, but again we see statistics of the same level to be followed by all Member States according to the European Union methodology, that the unemployment rate is low, and, as I said, this is recognised by both domestic and international organisations, such as the European Commission, in its document published on 11 May. The improved fiscal balance is due only to the external environment. If that were the case, we could expect very significant economic expansion in many countries of Europe. That's not the case. I also agree with Mr János Volner and Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát that, in the longer term, a positive change in demographic trends is crucial for the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian budget. This is a point where the government has taken a number of measures and whose budgetary impression is also included in the proposal before you. Let me mention here that on the Jobbik side and on the MSZP side, the amount of family allowances and direct subsidies is not increasing. Again, I would like to ask you to look at the chapter on individual family policy subsidies in the proposed proposal, where it is stated that, with direct and indirect support, the state will spend 4.7 percent on family support in proportion to GDP. This includes the amount of family benefits where we expect substantial growth in 2018. Erzsébet Schmuck said that this budget is similar to the previous ones. I agree with him. But I'm arguing that it's a dead end. I don't want to repeat the data. And I have to argue to the fullest extent, and if I may say so, I think that the congresswoman disproved herself when she said who were the losers of next year's draft budget law. Listed losers: health care, public education, social al, cradle workers, cultural workers, since there is no wage increase in these areas, he said that civil servants are his losers. Please, there's a wage increase in all areas. The number of persons employed in central budgetary bodies is 700,000, of which 556 thousand persons have been or have been subject to wage increases. Madam President, you have listed the areas where a large increase in wages has taken place. [[Interjection from the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP. Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That's what you should tell the people involved!]] I can hear yelling. Then I would like to ask you with great respect if you have spoken to health care nurses who also received a wage increase in 2012-13. They received an average salary increase of 26,5 per cent from 1 September 2016, a 12 per cent increase from 1 November 2017, a further 8 per cent increase from 1 November 2018 and a continuation in 2019. So if you don't believe the budget bill, if you don't believe us, ask these people. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: We will ask.]] Ask them if they have any growth or growth on their gross salary, and then I ask them to evaluate me. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Payment is not gross.]] I also hear it's not about gross. Congressman, do you think the personal income tax rate has risen or will it rise or not? In addition to yelling at me, I would also ask you to comment on how you believe the key to personal income tax will change in 2017-18. Nursing fee, losers: the rate of the care fee increases by 5 percent, it will be possible to establish an equitable disability pension for those who are injured by health, if the Honourable Parliament accepts this. Domestic SMEs are the losers, they are not supported by the budget, according to Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet. I ask you to look at the tax rules, where, following a reduction of 16% of the small company tax rate in 2017, the government will propose 13 percent in 2018. The state of the roads: the amendment of this year's draft budget law includes HUF 50 billion plus, and after the original HUF 10 billion in 2017, HUF 40 billion will be included in the draft budget of next year's budget for road renovation only - not for motorway construction, road renovation. Individual farmers are losing: as a result of the changes in the government's rules, working agricultural companies over 1200 hectares do not receive direct agricultural support as a main rule, and support for the family economy has been highlighted, so I think that these positive processes can also take place in the 2018 budget. Regarding the comments made by Congresswoman Zsuzsa Szelényi that there are no investments, only EU money, let us look at some real economic investments: Mercedes, Bosch or Ecseri Kft. to say a domestic-owned company. These investments, these investments, show that we can see significant investment activity in the private sector without EU funding. Women's employment and nursery funding are precisely areas where the government has proposed and proposed significant changes in the 2017 and 2018 budget changes and drafts. Finally, Congresswoman asked us to report on the state of the budget every six months. I must report to the Honourable Parliament that the government reports on the state of the central budget, the municipal data on a quarterly basis, not every six months, but every month. They are public, everyone can know them, and from this we see that the first four months of this year's absence are one of the lowest in the past 16-17 years, if I remember correctly, showing a second-lowest absence, coupled with the fact that the first figures for the expansion of the economy are very positive. I believe that there is a budgetary and real economic base that can cover the tax reductions and expenditures contained in the 2018 budget proposal so that we can reduce the public debt ratio that has been mentioned many times by the end of next year. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-17-44	Thank you very much. Welcome. Dear Parliament, We continue our work with two-minute comments. First, the representative of Jobbik, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, will take the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-17-45	Mr President, Dear House, The following days are about bringing up on a basis that is left out of the leadership, thoughts that simply do not represent an impression in this budget. The first is precisely the situation of the credit-damaged, the foreign exchange credit-damaged. Perhaps Mr. Secretary of State is also aware that the number of credentials is once again above 140,000. In their case, the National Asset Manager is in many cases unable to provide assistance due to the lack of budget resources and the lack of authorisation for the banks that committed the crime. If you are interested in specific examples, I will, of course, be happy to share them later. In addition, a large part of the middle class or ex-middle class is oppressed by executives with 33 percent disenfranchised, 50 percent disenfranchised, and the question arises as to what kind of solution the Government of Hungary has for these countrymen, as we can see that for those who are having difficulty with their loans, there is no longer any possibility of a discussion, space, but the so-called fallen-in authentic, evicted, for those whose families have been destroyed. In my opinion, they are demanding claims already made on these people, but the so-called settlement of the government also translated it at a market rate of 256 HUF for loans received at 165 HUF, thereby contributing to the slow down and even the destruction of some of the middle class. Although I will now be able to be told by the pro-government representatives how many hundred billion forints have been saved by their interventions for the victims, I have to answer that question: how many thousand billion forints could the financial institutions concerned have unduly looted our fellow countrymen, because the only acceptable solution for those who took credit at 165 forints is to convert them not at 256, but at 165 forints. Thus, the forinting of loans at the rate of admission cannot be saved, and these people should also be sent a message in the draft budget. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] However, there are no indications of a reassuring solution for them. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[13.20]]
u2017-05-17-46	Congressman Lajos Szűcs, Fidesz representative, will be here in two minutes. Here.
u2017-05-17-47	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary, you have answered a number of questions that have led me to speak, so I do not want to return to them. In any case, the feeling that I have heard these budgetary debates is not the first time that we are facing a situation where I am trying to get involved in the budget of the neighbouring family; our opposition fellow Members are making their views known and are trying to get involved in this debate without ever having helped us in the past years by helping the work of the Hungarian Parliament with the adoption of this budget. [[Péter Benő Banai leaves the meeting room and is replaced by István Lepsényi.]] In addition, we can say that the sentences you are saying do not, fortunately, affect one thing, which does not concern the fact that this budget can be implemented, the numbers of this budget stop, unlike the budgets created during the socialist period. I'd also like to draw attention to some silly things. Bertalan Tóth said the system of direct payments; I would like to inform him that direct agricultural payments are not payments under the Budget Act; they are given directly by the Union to these organisations and farmers. What upset me, however, I would like to say that, in this Parliament, it should not even be funny to say a sentence that Ákos Hadházy said that the work will set you free. This tastes really bad. I would like to ask Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck to follow the Parliament and not to say such a sentence here. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-17-48	Congresswoman Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP.
u2017-05-17-49	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, I regret that Mr Secretary of State is no longer in the room, and I wanted to answer him in a large part, because he told us not to say that this is a budget for corruption and injustice. He also claimed that this sentence is probably based on the fact that we have a different economic policy philosophy. Yeah, it's very different. Because we believe that the poorer layers should be caught up, they should be given more today, and not the top ten. Our economic policy philosophy is very different in this, I'm sure. I would like to say to my colleague Szűcs that in many cases we would have liked to help you with our amendments so that you could accept a fairer budget, you have swept it off the table every single time. It is therefore very difficult to help you with your work so that a fair budget can be adopted. What I would like to say to Mr Secretary of State is that he told us not to say that there is a Mob government against us. I believe that Minister of State Benő Banai is a very honest man, he lives in the world of numbers, and he often doesn't see the man behind him. We are saying that this budget is unfair because people who work as public workers today are unable to take advantage of a number of things, such as family tax incentives. For them, it's really important that they have an extra income that they can raise their children normally. Now, these are the people who are in the worst position, in jobs where they've been paid a normal minimum wage, fired, and then taken back as public employees, just so they don't have to pay the minimum wage. I think it's the real injustice of you taxing the minimum wage. And Mafia government for those who stand behind you, for those people who don't bend down for five thousand forints, because in that second Lőrinc Mészáros earns more money than five thousand forints, so if he drops it, he won't bow down for it. That is why this budget of corruption and injustice is created by you.
u2017-05-17-50	Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, will be here in two minutes.
u2017-05-17-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr State Secretary said that it is extremely important to maintain a single-key personal income tax system, which is proportionate and that it is worth working for everyone. We have said it many times, and we will say again and again that this is an extremely unfair tax system, because when you introduced it, you put more than 500 billion in your pockets to the top, and you took 100 billion from the lowest earners. At a time when a society is breaking up, when there are fewer and fewer rich and more poor - and so that I will not be accused of bringing the numbers, this is also a world trend, i.e. in the world and in Hungary, it has been shown in many cases - in such a case, the government will have to go into it by means that draw society apart more closely. It also logically follows, but many experts also believe that a return to multi-key personal income tax should be re-introduced. Another big problem is that you cannot achieve a general wage increase. It is true that the minimum wage is raised and some small circles are being added, but this simply destroys small and medium-sized enterprises. We don't know, we don't know what kind of tests have been carried out, what effect this will have, but it's possible that tens of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises will be ruined this year. Otherwise, there would be funding for a more general wage increase in the budget, a lot of unnecessary, luxurious investments remain here. We have said in many cases that the Paks expansion is not necessary, that could save 106 billion forints, but there is also the City Park, stadiums and sportstao.
u2017-05-17-52	Thank you very much. Dear Members, We are now returning to the list of speakers and even to the army that has been announced. First up, Mr Szilárd Németh, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2017-05-17-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The last five and a half hours have been interesting, and most of it is said by opposition contributions that it is as if we were in a time travel, multiple time travel. Some went back until the '50s, but I thought mostly of the 2001-2002 period. Indeed, the chimbrandt of this is the quote of Mátyás Rákosi in the 1950s, the, pay the rich. In 47, even before power was passed nationwide, it was promised to the Communists, and let's be honest, to the simple people who live poorer and poor, it sounds very good. They went out on the street, they heard him there, and then he appeared in various records, even in a publication, a beautiful publication published by the Szikra publisher, about what a great man this Rákosi fellow is. Then, when he was given the opportunity a year later, when everyone was grinded up, they grinded down the whole of the bourgeois Hungary, and suddenly arrived at the attic sweepers in the countryside, those who interpreted the services a little strangely, and who didn't give up his fattening or cut off his fattening, put him in jail like my grandfather did. In the factories, it was published that everyone had to register a peace loan from the salary they had given, if any, because of course, in the Stalinist world, in the cancerist world, everyone had to dip in the Stahanovist movement, work for free, or don't give, in the communist shift, and they did virtually nothing but what they promised. The whole country, if you will, has been eaten, skinned, pulled out from under people for a living. Not only am I saying this, but also mentioned later by one of the ministers responsible for the attic sweep, when he saw what was going on in this country, he became Prime Minister; we are talking about Imre Nagy, who later became the victim of the revolution, because the Kádárs wanted him out of the country for good. One picture is completely flashing, during the period of the 2001-2002, the first Orbán government, when the opposition fought as well as now, of course, the prime was carried there by the commies, and with all kinds of unfounded accusations and all kinds of lies they tried to discredit the government, every measure of the government, the two-year budget at the time, and everything that the Fidesz government or Viktor Orbán had to do with. Stupendous horse-zung came, and they were completely irresponsible and they were sending false promises to people, and they said, "Well, what is this achievement?" We're gonna be so much better than this. Oh, and they said slowly that there would be no gas price increase. Then they put Ference Gyurcsány in the neck of those same people after a bit of kurfly, after a detour, and perhaps about the gas increase, so that it happened 15 times, and the price of the gas tripled so that I wouldn't talk about the currency loans that were also passed on to people with the help of the banks. So, the thing is, I think we need to be careful when the opposition, such an opposition, is practically the same method in person, they are pursuing the same policy when we are discussing next year's budget here. [[13.30]] That is why I was pleased that, in practically a good half-hour rejoinder, Minister of State Péter Banai turned the debate of this budget back into the present and sobriety. I think it is clear that this is the budget of people living in work. This definition is not a coincidence, because when we talk about this budget, we look at the composition of this budget, we look at the numbers assigned to it, then it becomes clear to everyone that this budget practically has a winner. Everyone has the opportunity, of course, to mobilize their own life energy, so everyone is responsible for themselves, but this budget is responsible for this responsible life, so that everyone can take one step forward in their own life, and this budget ensures it. It ensures that when it talks about the work-based economy, it talks about employment, increasing employment, further reducing unemployment, job creation, associated wage increases. The system of wage increases is based on an agreement, namely an agreement between economic operators, employers and workers in the long term, including a guaranteed increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage for skilled workers. This is included in the budget this year and will be included in 2019. We can also say the same thing about career plans, so they are included, and they are also covered by: teachers, health workers, law enforcement workers - and I will talk about this separately - the continuous increase in wages, the continuous improvement of working conditions, and the increase in the number of employees. Obviously some of this is a necessity, because when we decided on the 3,000 border hunters, it is clear that it was because of illegal migration and the resulting situation, but there is a condition. There's a condition for people to live safe, and we can keep going. The whole segment of tax policy, whether we are talking about tax policy on labour income or taxes on entrepreneurs, is all showing a decrease, and the central budget for 2018 supports this in any way, and I would also like to say that we are talking about a long-term perspective, not only of active people, but also of pensioners. To say that the pension increase has not been achieved, a 10-percent real pension increase can be predicted. We say - and not we say, but this has spread - that the Orbán government gave back the 13th month pension to people, the one that was taken from people in 2006. Today, the 13th month pension can be shown in cash, in terms of purchasing value, as a result of the reduction of the overhead, due to low inflation. And it says in this budget that if inflation is higher than planned, then the pension increase will be adapted to this, there will be a supplementary pension increase at the end of the year. It also includes what is commonly called the pension premium: if the performance of the economy achieves what the indicators have set for us, then the government will provide a pension premium for pensioners. The family support system is about the same story. So support for families, support for families with children, appears in the family tax allowance, appears in the home support program. Which country has a home support program or a family tax reduction like Hungary? Or what is the country that spends this percentage of the country's GDP on family social expenditure? And then I didn't talk about it, and here I heard the VAT on what a tragic VAT it is. The part of the VAT circle that now goes into the shopping basket of families, so meat, milk, eggs, they all go down, precisely because they are much lower, they go from 27 to 5 percent VAT. And then, most importantly, the question of security is whether we can guarantee whether the budget can guarantee the security of Hungary, whether it can guarantee the international obligations that, say, result from the Schengen Treaty, to protect Europe, the culture of Europe and the security of Europe at the external borders, and to stop the illegal migration rush that has reached Europe, by the way. I've got a summary chart right here, and I'm just talking about stuff expenses for the last three years. By 31 March Hungary spent 89 billion HUF on border protection only. In this fast-boosted wire barrier, the temporary safety fence, the construction of the second fence, their installation with various signalling systems, the construction of thermal and infrared cameras, night vision systems, manoeuvring roads, the acquisition of personal protective equipment, equipment and the construction of transit zones, the two important transit zones that complete the application of the legal and technical border closure at the Hungarian border, if you will, we are talking about Tompa and Röszke at the Schengen external border. So these conditions have so far cost HUF 88 billion, but if we look at the tables of this year's budget, it is clear that there are additional amounts in this system to operate. I'd just like to say a few things. The expenditure related to the management of mass immigration is 50 billion forints plus, i.e. 50 billion forints to protect the security of the Hungarian people compared to 2017. But expenditure related to the implementation of anti-terrorist measures, which is also not transferred to an organization, is not to a secret service or to the Counter-Terrorism Centre, but to a cash register that, if there is a problem, the government will be given the opportunity to put more and more money into it under the law, which also means HUF 1.4 billion. But maintaining the task system of the national crime prevention strategy or professional career-related expenditure, for law enforcement and secret service workers, has also increased by more than HUF 5 billion. The fight against corruption has been said here. The National Defence Service is much bigger than last year, with nearly HUF 100 million more money, and, of course, even here at the Constitutional Protection Office, the Counter-Terrorism and Information Crime Analysis Centre, huge funds are being made to counter the threat of terrorism on the one hand. This is also linked to illegal migration itself. We know that illegal migration and the threat of terrorism are hand in hand, if you will, there have been numerous signs of this in Western Europe. This is a warning signal for us, so it is important that we provide these organisations with serious money, because here the focus is on prevention, gathering, analysing and transmitting information. However, the Immigration and Asylum Office, which ensures the operation of transit zones, as well as the border police, Counter-Terrorism Centre, the Constitutional Protection Office, who participate as administrative authorities in the asylum process, also has more and more money available for the tasks they define. So the Government of Hungary, if the Hungarian Parliament decides, will be able to spend even more money on Hungary's security next year, not only on the security of Hungary, but also on the tasks - I would like to emphasise once again - which are the ones that are most attacked from Brussels. They are attacking the series of measures that we have taken from Brussels, but we are also protecting Europe, the European culture and the security of the people of Europe. Therefore, I would ask you to consider, when we are arguing, that we should have a realistic professional debate on the budget here in Parliament. The figures speak for themselves, and I ask that we maintain Hungarian security, European security, and support the government and Parliament with more budget money to support the operation of this security system. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-17-54	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The State Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, Mr Károly Kontra, asked for the floor. Here you go. [[13.40]]
u2017-05-17-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you, Mr Szilárd Németh, for his contribution, which focused on the safety of Hungary, the Hungarian people, and indeed, security and the security of Hungarian people is a national matter. The government continues to regard the security of Hungarian people and the protection of borders as one of its most important tasks, so the 2018 budget is also about safety in addition to work and families. This is also a security budget, Honourable Parliament. Hungary was the first of the countries of the European Union to recognise that mass migration poses serious national security risks. More than ever in the area of national security, cooperation with foreign partner services, fast and accurate data recording and data exchange on potential assassins, cross-border police and secret service cooperation can be the key to the effective fight against terrorism. In determining the 2018 budget, the government continues to consider the security of the Hungarian people as a priority, so almost all law enforcement agencies can expect additional resources in 2018 compared to the 2017 subsidies. The police can expect an additional HUF 22 billion, HUF 427 million from the Immigration and Asylum Office, some HUF 4 billion from the Disaster Protection, the Counter-Terrorism Information and Crime Analysis Centre, TIBEK HUF 339 million from additional funds, but the implementation of the sentence can also be financed with more money; according to the proposed budget law, the implementation of the sentence, which has also carried out serious tasks in the construction of the fence, the production of various materials and the execution of the various materials, can count on HUF 22.5 billion from 18 in the adoption of the bill. Due to mass immigration, as the Member pointed out in his speech, we are planning to spend 50 billion extra expenditure on the operation of the two existing transit zones, the transit zone in Röszke and Tampa, as well as the entry into service of the newly installed border hunters. According to the government's decision, 3,000 new border hunters need to be recruited, trained and put into service in order to protect the southern border and protect the safety of the Hungarian people. We provide all the necessary technical and personal conditions for border protection, but if necessary, the framework is open from above, and according to the proposal submitted, we can allocate additional resources for this purpose. I have already drawn attention to the importance of accurate data recording and data exchange in the area of national security. In this context, it is important that the HUF 300 million of the HUF 339 million additional support granted to TIBEK is used for the planned expansion of the Passenger Data Information Unit, and the Passenger Data Information Units are responsible for collecting, storing and managing passenger data from air carriers. With the additional resources provided for security and police protection, the Constitutional Protection Office will receive HUF 286 million, HUF 321 million for the National Security Service and HUF 81,3 million for the National Defence Service. The Counter-Terrorism Centre will receive approximately the same level of support as this year. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that the law enforcement careers programme will continue in 2018, with the aim of ensuring that the necessary resources for the next 5 per cent development will be provided by the law enforcement professional staff, and from 1 January 18 the law enforcement professionals will be entitled to an additional 5% increase on average, and then we will be at a 45 per cent increase on 1 January 2018 compared to the start of the 1 July 2015. For the Constitutional Protection Office, it is also a priority in 2018 to detect and avert the activities of persons who are threatening Hungary's national security and who are illegally entering Hungary and who are threatening its national security. In addition, as the weekly events prove, there is an increasing need for effective and effective fight against cyberterrorism. The National Security Service will continue to play a key role in the implementation of tasks related to the strengthening of police and public security, the protection of citizens, the eradication of organised crime and the protection against international and domestic terrorism. On the basis of the Government's security strategy, it can be concluded that terrorism and organised crime, as well as extremism, are the focal points of threats against national and public security, and the resources needed to protect against them are available in the 2018 budget. Dear Parliament, I started by saying that the security of the Hungarian people, the security of Hungary, is a national matter, so I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the proposed budget law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-17-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We will continue with the list of speakers that have been announced. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP, please.
u2017-05-17-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State! Dear fellow Members, While the state spent 31.1 percent of GDP on welfare functions in 2010, only 26.03 percent of GDP will be spent next year - 5 percent less. In particular, the social security and welfare services function group, which concerns this social area, reached 17.51 percent of GDP in 2010, with only 13.67 percent and 4 percent decline next year. In the health sector, 4.5 percent was spent in 2010 and 4.1 percent in 2018. In terms of expenditure distribution, while 61.5 percent of expenditure was allocated to welfare functions in 2010, 54 percent in 2018 - 6 percent in 2018 - in particular, while social security and welfare services, which affect the social field, reached 34,6 percent in 2010, only 28,5 percent in the next year. I think that it is possible to look at the numbers from the pro-government side, and it can also be from the opposition side, but these are also real figures, like what Parliamentary Secretary Banai said. If we look at the social area, Minister of State Banai - he is no longer here; I know he will come back - he mentioned precisely the family allowance, that he would still not be included in the budget for next year, that I would increase the family allowance. I told you yesterday in the ground-breaking debate that I would ask the ministers to come to an agreement, stop messing with people's heads. János Lázár announced that after seven years the family allowance would finally be increased, and then for a week Katalin Novak stood up and said that the family allowance would not be increased, and now Minister of State Banai mentioned it. I would like to point out that the family allowance is the benefit of the child, the benefit of all children, not the benefit of the parent. About 40 percent of the family allowance has been lost in real terms in recent years. I am one of those, and also the Socialist Members, who are going to re-submit this initiative to change the budget, that we should finally raise it in real terms, at least 40 percent, 35-40 percent, and actually increase it for our children. But let's look at the social field a little bit more. Next year, the government is expecting a 4.3 percent increase in GDP. This year's 3.1 percent increase is now being adjusted to 4.1 percent. Despite this, welfare functions are again reduced by 26,59 per cent this year, compared to 26,9 per cent this year, in proportion to GDP, 26 per cent will be allocated to education, health, pension expenditure, social benefits, family support, unemployment benefits, less than in the 2017 budget. But not only does it get less in proportion to GDP for the future, but also in terms of the distribution of public expenditure, while we see an increase in expenditure on services that constitute the operational functions of the State. It should be mentioned here that, in the spirit of cutting red tape, which was announced in 2010 by the Fidesz-KDNP government, that the state apparatus will be smaller, fewer ministries will operate with fewer ministers, to an unprecedented extent, since then, since 2010, the number of state ministers, deputy state ministers, ministerial agents and the number of commissioners appointed by the Prime Minister and the related budget items have also increased. [[13.50]] In terms of specific amounts, so-called social security benefits will be reduced by a few hundred million forints, but other social assistance functions, including aid, will be reduced by approximately 34 billion forints in nominal terms, with a reduction in rates of several items. Family benefits. The family allowance, the child, the maternity allowance will remain unchanged for 10 years next year, and the amount of appropriations will be further reduced, probably due to the decreasing number of children. Every year we see that there are fewer plans for family allowances and these subsidies in the budget, because government representatives, and those who prepare the budget, are aware that their family policies have failed in relation to the number of children, which is why there are fewer in this budget line every year. Fewer children are born, and even planning less is planned year after year. Labour-related family allowances are indeed increasing. The first three lines in the table - here we see the growth for family tax relief. Several of my fellow Members, my fellow opposition, have also said that while rich families, very well-earned families, have left about HUF 500 billion more in recent years, the poorest has lost about HUF 100 billion in recent years. In the case of invalidity benefits, we see that you will receive HUF 11.6 billion less for disability benefits next year than this year. Exceptional invalidity benefits will be introduced in the proposal for a salad setting up the budget. This was discussed by Parliament yesterday. We also said that this is the government's way of admitting that it has made a terrible mistake to terminate disability benefits, and that it's trying to correct it a little bit with the electoral budget, so to speak. The same is the case with pensions. It is very interesting that in recent years we have heard in Parliament about how good the economy is and how wonderful it is, only in the 2018 budget there is a larger pension increase. So the elections are coming, it would be good for the pensioners, the families, to forget these horrible seven years and vote for Fidesz-KDNP again. Next year's budget will be entitled the budget of people from work. It is difficult to decide whether this is simply cynicism or just another expression of the social image that Fidesz represents. Hungary's budget should not be the people who live from work, it should not be a group, it should be the budget of the whole country, honourable fellow Members. By publishing the hopefully final draft budget with this title, someone will exclude from the budget the following groups: unemployed, disabled, pensioners, children, children, students and students. About six million people, fellow Members. The poorest ones are still not being spent, they are not being thought of. The income threshold for aid is raised only in some cases, but not in their amount. Again, family allowance, child benefit, maternity allowance will be left unchanged in the budget for the tenth year next year. People living in poverty, children's educators, do not benefit from economic growth. [[Happy István's intervention.]] If we look closely at the budget for next year, and I would say here, fellow Members, and I regret that Mr Banai is not here, it was worth a little fighting here in Parliament yesterday with my fellow Member Heringes, because, you know, it was a shame what we saw here yesterday at the foundational debate. You didn't sit here! They weren't here! And they didn't even honor their own secretary of state with the fact that they'd at least come into Parliament. It was worth it because we saw them at least come in this morning. It's true that after that, they started flying away. [[Interview from the governing parties benches: You weren't even inside!]] And all we can see now is that my fellow Member and I are starting to get scared that only the secretary of state will talk about the time we have. When Secretary of State Banai stood up and then responded to the lead speakers for 30 minutes, we felt that again they would not want to comment on the budget as much as they should. It's either because they haven't read it, or they just don't appreciate the House having any comment at all. [[Happy István's intervention. Dr. Lajos Szűcs: You weren't here this morning!]] I think what's going on in this country is unworthy now. I don't think there's any need to be offended by the secretary of state when we say it's an election budget. Election budget. They think that then people will forget these eight years. They won't! You will be replaced in 2018 and no more budgets will be drawn up in this House. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-05-17-58	Thank you. Mr János Latorcai, representative of the KDNP, Vice-President of the Parliament is next. Here you go.
u2017-05-17-59	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, However, I would like to say to Mrs Bangóné Borbély Ildikó that there are people here who remember yesterday, because they were here from the very beginning. In fact, I also remember that someone from your bench - I could tell you his name, but that's not interesting - closed the day by wondering who would show up at 8:00 this morning. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That's right.]] Well, I'm sure you guys weren't here, because sitting up there, apart from the only notary of Nándor Gúr, no one's taken a seat here in the fach. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I came at 8:30, Mr. President!]] [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I came at 8:30, Mr. President!]] You weren't here. (Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: I came at 8:30, Mr President!) I don't doubt for a minute that you weren't followed through the TV screen... [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I was half an hour late after 12:00...]] Congresswoman! I didn't interfere, and I'm not in the habit of interfering with your comments. I've always followed with a little smile this constant yelling, which has recently become decisive, especially for you. But let's talk about yesterday. Although I didn't want to start with that, and I didn't want to talk about that, I just wanted to tell you, because yesterday was a very ugly part. A very nasty part when the Secretary of State was attacked in his humanity and professionalism. [[To the intervention of Ildikó Bangóné Borbély:]] Yeah, it sounds like they're stupid things he's saying. Not for you, not for you; you know who this is. I believe that an opinion of the State Secretary with adequate intelligence, due humility and professional integrity could not be treated this way. It could not be, and it was unworthy of the Hungarian Parliament, it was unworthy of man, because he was also a much larger-scale man than to fall into such an ordinary evil. Ladies and Gentlemen, Today, both László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office and Árpád Kovács, President of the Fiscal Council, pointed out in his speech that the draft law on the central budget for 2018 is sound, realistic and contributes to maintaining Hungary's budgetary stability. I do not think I need to dissect in depth what an important message this is in a world where the economic policy scope of a country is greatly influenced by the ratings of large credit rating agencies, their expectations for the future. I would also like to recall the statement by the President of the Fiscal Council that the conditions for planning and predictability have been constantly improving since 2010. This was also supported by the opinion of the State Audit Office, since the budget for 2018 considered the revenue estimates of the bill to be fully justified. I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that these are important findings, because the 2018 budget, as the Minister said in his expozee, is a budget for workers and families. [[14.00]] From work to people, because it offers more opportunities, as you said, for those who support themselves and their families from work. Compared to 2010, 700,000 more people are working in Hungary, but the government's goal is to achieve full employment, so that as new jobs are created more people can get to work, and that due to the tax reduction Hungarian wages will increase, because they really have a lot to grow. It is therefore important for us to pursue a tax policy, to conduct a tax policy by the Hungarian government, which will result in spending the money remaining in the company for wage increases, improvements and new jobs. The economic policy steps in recent years and the budget ahead of us are also aimed at whitening the economy. This sends the message to Hungarian businesses and Hungarian citizens that we should build a country of decent work and fair competition, where economic operators need not be afraid that some people will gain an undue competitive advantage by tax avoidance. In the debate last night, we have already demonstrated that in recent years we have increased the efficiency of tax collection. This was the purpose of the introduction of electronic cash registers or the electronic road traffic control system, the EKAER, which fulfilled the expectations attached to it, as we have heard in both the Secretary of State and the SAO's opinion. [[Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat.]] After yesterday's debate, let me also mention the concept of sustainable bleaching mentioned several times by the President of the State Audit Office, President László Domokos, because it is a new concept that can be interesting in the coming years. The term suggests that increasing the efficiency of tax collection cannot in any way be an end in itself, but must be a means of reducing tax rates further, thereby strengthening the economy and improving our country's standard of living, thanks to lower tax rates and targeted benefits. The new tax collection instruments all coincide with the objectives of sustainable whitening and thus contribute to the future of further programmes similar to last year's wage agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, Every year, the amount of support for families is increasing, as a result of which Hungarian families can build on different forms of support in the long term. Today there is a three-type form of family support, and this is also evident from the 2018 draft budget law: partly financial - for example, childcare or family allowances - and partly tax incentives, and partly service-type subsidies, such as nursery development and free textbooks or children's meals. It is a pity that Mrs Ildikó Borbély has gone out because I would like to continue one of her debates here, when she said that there was not an adequate amount for institutional catering within the holiday meal or the children's meal. I would like to ask you if you still remember how much money was planned for a holiday meal in 2006. I've collected it. It's not hard, because overall, it's not a penny. How many today? Today it is 6.7 billion forints. I think that if you look at this growth, it's of unparalleled value. But if you look at how much it was for institutional food in 2006, because we always go back to 2010, even in real terms, if you compare it to 73 billion, or three times. You can check it out, it's a 300 percent improvement. Maybe we need more, maybe a lot more. However, I believe that this amount is indicative, indicating that the government considers these areas to be extremely important and that it should provide all the support it can. Next year, there will be HUF 1900 billion in support of families, which is almost double compared to 2010. Next year, nearly a million families are helped by the family tax relief system. Unfortunately, there are those who are not included, these are facts, which must be acknowledged. It is also necessary to see that this is not a full opinion. Next year, the benefits for families with two children will continue to increase. Translated into the language of everyday life, this means that 35,000 HUF per month more money will be left over by families, which means 420 thousand HUF per year. But next year, the tax relief of families with three children will continue to increase for all children. The home creation programme announced two years ago and continuously extended since then will receive HUF 226 billion in 2018. The most important forms of support in housing support are the family home-building discount introduced in February 2016, or more commonly known as CSOK, the housing savings fund subsidy and the tax refund subsidy. The impact of this was felt even slightly, but already last year, as last year the number of homes recovered was 10 thousand, 9994, which is a 31 percent increase compared to the previous year. The number of housing permits issued and the number of applications for the construction of new dwellings reached 31 559, which represents a two-and-a-half-fold increase compared to 2015. The rapid rise in the number of housing permits is a sign of the recovery of the building, but the real impact of this will be felt from the professional conference of the last few weeks. In recent years, public debt has been declining steadily and inflation is below 3 per cent. These all contribute to the free circulation of children in need and to the availability of free textbooks. For the free children's meal next year, 80 billion HUF will be spent in the budget, and from 2018 the children will receive the textbook free of charge in the first nine years. After all, it is safe to say that the wording of the Minister's statement that this budget is indeed a family budget. Dear Parliament, Last year, the Hungarian Government decided to develop wages on a systemic basis and signed an agreement with employers, employees and social partners that will lead to more steps in actions and reductions in employers' contributions. This process will continue next year, and we hope that as a result, wages and thus tax and contribution revenues will also increase. Today, the President of the Fiscal Council said that wage growth could also lead to an increase in imports, which in turn could increase the value of the deficit within the budget. This means that both the government and the parliament must pay greater attention to the promotion of Hungarian products, to the protection of the market for Hungarian products, and in particular to the fact that as many Hungarian products as possible are present in an appropriate quality and choice on the shelves of multinational trade chains. [[14.10]] Once these have been put forward, I must also mention the indicators related to public debt and the deficit target. As stated in the SAO's opinion, the government is forecasting a 4.3 percent economic growth in 2018 with a 2.4 percent deficit in line with the convergence programme in the draft budget law, while the government's debt-to-GDP ratio will decrease to 69.5 percent by the end of 2018. Dear fellow Member, I would like to underline that this 69,5 percent will be the smallest and best result in the last ten years. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] As the President of the Fiscal Council has put it, then take a look at it. Of course, they were better before, but after the explosion in 2008-09, this will be the best. Given that economic growth and not austerity are the cover for the reduction of public debt, the SAO believes that the improved trend in the sovereign debt indicator will provide additional room for manoeuvre for the budget and that the reduction in the level of indebtedness will provide the opportunity to implement measures to achieve economic development and other important social objectives. On this basis, it can be said that the budget is sustainable and stable, which is a stable basis for the further development of the coming years, and therefore the KDNP calls for its support from this House. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-17-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The representative of Jobbik, Mr Zoltán Magyar, is next.
u2017-05-17-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Here we can now listen to the labels that are used to sell the current budget to the public every year: the budget for stability, the suspension, the zero budget, and this year we heard that the work will be a budget for the people. János Volner and Dániel Z. Kárpát have already explained the main figures, the most important pillars of the budget have already been torn apart and Jobbik's position on why these labels do not fully cover reality. We have heard here from you, on behalf of my fellow members of the Government, about the budgetary margin, that it may be much wider and that GDP growth will perhaps be greater than expected. The real question is the level of the Hungarian people, the level of the average people, the level of the daily operation of the various sectors, the extent to which improvements can be made, which in the long term ensure that as many people can make a living from quality jobs in Hungary. The area I wish to discuss in more detail is mainly about rural Hungary, not, of course, the 15 to 20 thousand people who are constantly referred to by my pro-government fellow Members, and who today live well in basic agricultural activity as a major farmer. We do not envy them, Jobbikos, let them live in this quality in the future, keep their families from it, but we would like the rural economy to be about the 7 million people who today are Hungarian citizens living in the countryside in a broader sense. The real question for me is how these additional opportunities will get to them, not to mention the European Union funds, which are obviously now, because we are talking about a domestic budget and I will not even analyse them in more detail, and it will be enough for next Monday's debate day, where we will be able to analyse the rural economy in more detail on the initiative of the LMP. In any case, it can be said that the development of small and medium-sized family farms in government communication has reached a significant level among the actors in the Hungarian countryside, including those involved in agriculture, and that practically every day now we can hear in every communication of the Ministry of Agriculture how important their development is and how forward-looking it is, compared to that, the practice shows exactly the opposite. Before 2010, Fidesz, as a opposition party, used a significant part of its campaign to stress how much more rural-friendly, rural-economic-friendly policy it would be than its predecessors; let's say, it was not difficult to promise that, of course, all progress in comparison to zero is positive, but I have to say, aside from that, that the rural population can feel that it has been left the most let down. For example, if we look at the budget for 2018, we can see that many areas are sold with the title rural development, which have nothing to do with rural Hungarians, especially some families you know very well. We have already seen this in terms of public land, where, for example, if we had not yet privatised the remaining state land reserves of our country, then the current budget could include a few billion forints on how these areas can be used in terms of the common good. Where is the promised social land programme, and let us not forget that in 2010, when we discussed the 2011 budget, there were references to this, not to mention, for example, the demographic land programme, which we should also talk about. A few billion forints, I think it would be worth it to lure young people back to the ageing, depopulated villages in Hungary, and to solve their housing, to make a living, and to do so we had half a million acres of state land. So a year ago, when we talked about this, there was still a legal basis to talk about it, and it would be good if we could discuss a budget that we could talk about after the better election victory in 2018, and we could talk again about a budget where it also appears in concrete lines, in concrete amounts. I am pleased that Hungarian products have been mentioned, and how important it would be to focus on both the domestic market and foreign markets in a larger scale and in a larger percentage, to create the opportunity for as many people in the Hungarian countryside to provide quality jobs for them and their families. Compared to this, I do not see any significant surplus amounts in the budget for the Agricultural Marketing Centre and any other ministerial budget line at all, and based on the experience of previous years, I can say that the forints spent so far are much more the advertising of the products of a narrow, close-to-government interest. The priority of Hungarian products in Hungarian markets cannot be achieved without being quality Hungarian products, and this does not mean what you support today, that is that one third of Hungarian food emissions are now linked to one single person's name and one single group of companies. If they are now artificially expanding names from their own circles, say Lőrinc Mészáros is worth mentioning, who has been enriched by HUF 100 billion compared to last year's budget debate, it will not result in these quality and expected rural jobs appearing through the food processing industry. If the trend continues this way, in a year's time, no matter what the government will be, we will be talking about the fact that Lőrinc Mészáros has been enriched with HUF 300 billion, and I believe that this process must end through a budget, and it can be put to an end if these funds are actually spent on the development of small and medium-sized family farms and their development. It is also scary that the integrators have now appeared at such a level that, according to documents leaked from the agricultural chamber, they want to support it from tax-paying forints and budget lines; I also see this as a very dangerous direction. Jobbik is not the view of the world that is being drawn up in this debate as well, that our country should move towards a kind of South American model, where the natural resources are concentrated in the hands of a very narrow elite, and everyone else can join this rural economy in a modern-day slave environment. [[14.20]] In contrast, it would be good to use these resources more to build a cooperative system in Hungary. Now I have to talk again about what this budget does not contain. We would look forward to it, and we look forward to it year after year - and I have done so with a motion for a budgetary amendment - so that there is a line in the domestic budget where we promote cooperative schemes. Of course, this requires a fair cooperative law, but it is obviously not the subject of our debate today. But the state must also promote the operation and birth of these by means of financial resources. In addition to the professional parts of my constituency - where I started and planned to start - I would like to say a few points, just because it is closely linked to the problems and shortcomings of the rural economy, because it is a large constituencies of 75 settlements, at least in settlements. Let's call it Rábaköz now, of course some other areas belong here. For example, the Csornaians are very happy about the bypass, but it has to be said that beyond the fact that, since the late 1970s, decision-makers have been debating which direction and when to build it, but okay, let's not be malicious, we are glad that it has been built; but as soon as we leave this expressway, there is a brutally poor-quality road network of people there, which really represents medieval states and I am not exaggerating at all. I recommend to the decision makers that they visit there at times and see what a catastrophic road network Rábáköz has. Maybe I don't have to tell you how much this affects. So I took the liberty and tabled an amendment to give this region a more viable road network. But it is also worth mentioning the solar battery plant, even because I wonder if the Secretary-General and the Secretary of State can answer how many more hidden loops are included in this year's budget, which was included in the previous one, because the solar cell factory was built, but they refuse to tell us how many billion forints. I am constantly bombing you with written questions on this matter, but you are constantly being sidetracked and slided. It's still empty to this day. I would like improvements to be made to the region, but preferably not such bogus improvements as the Csorna people have experienced. Allow me a sentence from the Kapuvar Meat Factory. It's quite amazing and cynical, what your liquidation commissioner said when the Kapuvars confronted him that they wanted to take this plant into the possession of pig farmers in the area, they would be involved financially and with all kinds of safeguards. The state, with an interest-free loan, would have had a duty to stand behind this initiative, but the point is that when this was raised, the liquidation commissioner said that there was no need to save the Kapuvár Meat Factory, so close to Austria, it is safe to go to work. That's not an attitude. I trust that at the last moment we can make so much changes to the budget, accepting my amendment, but if it hurts your ego too much, then feel free to submit a pro-government party, we, Jobbiks, will be very happy to vote for it. So let's save such a traditional plant and put it into the property of local pig farmers by proposing a solution in Europe. This is the only model that survives all market difficulties, as they will be interested in cutting domestic pigs in the first place, and if they were able to sell their products so well that there was little raw material, then you can look around in a wider circle. But this is definitely the model that works and is successful across Europe. With one more sentence, let me refer you to one more sensitive area. The kind of economic model that you and your predecessors have been on has resulted in countless citizens from East Hungary and South Hungary in this northwest corner of Hungary, our Hungarian brothers and sisters trying to manage. Unfortunately, this is an understandable process, because it is often the only option for them. However, this has created tensions in the region that should be dealt with, especially by ensuring a decent living for Hungarian citizens in Eastern Hungary and South Transdanubia. But it's really embarrassing, because a multitude of settlements have developed in Győr-Sopron county today, where this causes daily conflicts, often because these people come from different sociocultural situations or behave differently from the standards of coexistence that we already have. These create serious problems, and I do not think that the normal economic development is that the citizens of Western Hungary are going out to work in Western Europe, and we are sucking people away from Eastern Hungary for the empty jobs that remain there. This is not good for them either, who are forced to leave their created family home, their existence and move to Western Hungary, nor is it good for us, who will be able to keep in touch with our children and grandchildren only on Skype. More emphasis should also be placed on these problems. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-17-62	Thank you very much. Mr Sándor Czomba, representative of Fidesz, is the next speaker. Here.
u2017-05-17-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, One of the most important points of the budget in terms of employment, if not the most important, is that next year's budget will take a very important next step on the road to full employment. Let's look at where we started, where we are and where we're going. I think it is worth it, because it is the last budget before the elections where it is worth drawing a line and looking at, because I think that there is no person in Hungary who is not interested in this aspect that the government has been particularly successful in this area. I believe that this is largely due to the success of the election of 14 and I hope that the election of 18 is also a success. But where did we start? As far as employment was concerned at the height of 2010, there was an employment figure of around 3 million 750 thousand. Between 2010-12, with a zero-percent GDP growth, the Hungarian government had to make a very important decision: we give aid to hundreds of thousands of people, or we try to highlight them from the aid system with temporary state help, through the public employment system, and when the time comes for the competition to regain consciousness, we will reduce public employment to the primary labour market in proportion. I say this because it is very important to divide this period between 2010-12 and beyond 2013, because after 2013, the challenge with the expansion of the competition sphere was no longer how to increase public employment, but how to help people pass through. When we talk about full employment, I would like to say that there are regions of Hungary where this has been happening for years. Where the unemployment rate is below 3.5 percent, it is practically safe to say that we are talking about full employment. The area of Győr is long ago in this state, but it is usually the West Transdanubia, the South Great Plain, the South Transdanubian part, and the North Hungarian, North Great Plain, where there is a major lag, especially in relation to a small settlement or small region. The 4.4 percent unemployment rate comes out to be 11 percent and 1.8 percent. Obviously, I'm not going to say anything new, but it's going to tell us what we're doing or what we're going to do, what we need to do, what we're going to do. Jobbik's representative, Dániel Z. Kárpát, once again said that we were just cosmetics with the figures, because he was divided and multiplied, and in the end it came out that there was virtually no 100 thousand of these 700 thousand who actually got a new job. Then I'll try to run into this thing again, not burdening the people here with figures. My statement is as follows: Compared to 2010, in 2017, there are 700 thousand employees on the basis of the last set of data. This is KSH's data. Since 1992, KSH has not changed any methodology. You can't really do that, because they're usually fixed on the basis of international standards. The student work has been done. I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that the student work was still in 1993, not at the time, because it wasn't, but it was seen later, and it is now being seen by statistics. There's no difference, it's not that 130,000 student workers suddenly appeared in the statistics and corrected the situation. No, that's not true. You've seen the student work before. With regard to foreign employment, he sees those who move within a year. With regard to movement within a year, 50,000 - now I'm trying to say simple numbers - have been between 90 and 110 thousand in recent years. [[14.30]] I would like to add that the German and Austrian labour markets were opened in 2011. So if someone might say to double what happened here, then what happened was what was important to Hungarians in terms of the labour market, that there was an increase. But what we're seeing is that in the last half-year or so, this number has been pretty much stagnating. So here's a $50,000 increase. In terms of public employment, there were between 70 and 80 thousand public employees before 2009, now at the peak of 240 thousand. Let us subtract the two numbers from each other; so our statement is that out of the 700 thousand jobs that KSH sees, 480 thousand were realised in the competition sphere. Now, with these numbers, I want you to argue with me. But I don't want to get into it, because people who might be able to hear us, they may already have lost track. So I would suggest to my fellow Members that at least acknowledge that we have actually achieved results in this area in recent years. With regard to wages, I would like to point out that it is very important to increase wages and raise wages. But wages must be increased and increased to the extent that the performance of the economy allows. We saw during the previous socialist government that they were trying to grow on credit. I got the results. By 2010, the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian state were in a very serious situation. We don't want this situation to come up again. That is, of course, another issue, and I would like to draw the government's attention to the fact that the significant increase in the minimum wage, this year and the following year obviously has a bleach effect in many areas, which is good and healthy. At the same time, it may be possible to say that in a small settlement there can be a grocery store that is very simple to say, which is private and has no room for manoeuvre, no room for manoeuvre to be able to produce a minimum wage increase. There, it may be worth observing these processes, taking into account legitimate and expected requests, so that even the smallest settlements do not remain without a store if the people who live there would like to use this service. The new challenge these days is the shortage of workers. I think any of my fellow Members would be able to give examples of how big the problem is from their own villages, towns and towns. There is a huge problem in some sectors and sectors, but this has not only appeared in the last one or two years, and in others it has just appeared in the first place. Obviously, there is a lot going on, but one of the biggest problems is that the workforce is not present there, and is not present with knowledge and skills where labour needs otherwise occur. The mobility of the Hungarian workforce is approaching zero. Well, then there's a serious homework assignment on both the budget and the labour market, how to handle this thing. Plus, he's got a lot on his mind about me talking home right now, and I can't go to a grocery store, a grocery store, a restaurant, anywhere where the owner wouldn't say I'm looking for a job. I'm reporting no. There are 3,200 registered job seekers in the register these days, and he says I can't find them, because otherwise he has four papers, but he can't add two numbers. I close it again, because this is not the budgetary debate, only the Hungarian reality, and in relation to Hungarian reality, if we want to find answers, then we have to deal with these problems; we have to. Age problems: At the moment, in the age of 20 and 45 or more, the employment rate in Hungary is above 80 per cent for men and above 70 per cent for women. Now, we don't have that much to do here, because technically, who can or wants to work, and especially in an area where the primary labour market is present, that's not a serious problem. In the case of people under 25, the situation has improved enormously, because in 2010 the unemployment rate licked 30 percent and now 11 percent. So there's a huge improvement, but this 11 percent is still high compared to 4 percent. People under the age of 25 do not need to find their job opportunities in public employment, because there is a great deal of trouble when they trade there in any way. There is a similar problem for people over 55 years of age. There, too, the situation has improved considerably compared to 2010, with the unemployment rate, but we know very well that if someone over the age of 55 becomes unemployed in a disadvantaged area, they are present with the rest of the underdogs, because they can't move, they can't sell a house, and the rest. So existing jobs are very important. The job protection action focuses on this, so that no one can even think of letting go of those who are in this protected age. In fact, women's employment is still a potential option. I would like to highlight the place and role of public employment, my fellow Members, with two sentences. This year's budget was HUF 340 billion, and next year there are 225 billion planned for the budget. This appears to be a drastic reduction. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the actual use is around HUF 270 billion. Compared to this, 225 billion is 40-45 billion forints. If someone asks if this is a public employment system that can be operated, then it is my opinion that it can. And people who, by the way, find no other way of finding employment, because they are in an area, in an area, with a degree, must continue to have the opportunity to participate in public employment, not in the relief system. In Hungarian, there will be public employment, surely it cannot be drastically reduced in one step, because these people immediately sink back into aid, which we very much do not want. However, businesses and workers must also be encouraged to leave this system, public employment and find work in the competitive sector. And I see good examples of this in the budget, which is absolutely important. Even there, it might be worth expanding the palette according to the needs. I have just mentioned that people under the age of 25 should not be employed in public employment. A programme was launched under the name of Youth Guarantee Programme, which will be able to help people under the age of 25 in the order of tens of thousands to access the primary labour market by training, retraining, service in any way. I think this is important, and I see in the budget that there is a need for funding in the order of tens of billions. It would be nice to treat this as open from the top, and now I'm just saying it quietly again, so if the demand is bigger, then it should be. But I think that this framework is, by the way, sufficient for this purpose. Much has been said about the demographic situation; it is one of our biggest problems. When I wasn't here, I was sitting somewhere else, that's what I said, in the name of the government. One of the most serious problems is the demographic situation. By 2050, our number at national borders will be below 8.5 million, if, by the way, this trend, which I have been able to say for 30-40-50 years or so... is a huge problem. Not only from the point of view of the pension system, not only of young people, but of all aspects, this is the biggest challenge for the government at any time that will come in the next few ten years. The biggest problem! Moreover, the effects of the measures are not immediate, but later, in the number of children born, in the reduction of mortality rates and so on. It's a Sisyfusian, very difficult task, very difficult work, but that we have to do it spectacularly and very quickly, that's for sure. I am pleased to hear that the Hungarian government has improved the demographic situation on top of the flag, even more than ever. I think that in this area, it is also necessary to achieve results. Finally, I would like to mention, for one sentence, that I have just said Vásároshnamény, this is in the easternmost corner of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg: the Hungarian average income at the moment is close to 200 thousand forints net. This is in Budapest around 240 thousand forints, in Szabolcs 118 thousand forints. But if I take out the larger cities in a better position, it's going to be under a hundred thousand forints. The situation has improved compared to ourselves, it has improved a lot, but there are huge differences within the country. A better fellow Member has just indicated, and I agree that it is not the solution, it is important what is in the budget, it is necessary, it is the construction of workers' shelters, the management of housing problems, the promotion of mobility, but I do not think it is appropriate to launch modern-day black trains, but to create the opportunities to bring jobs where the workforce is there. This is, I know, an extremely difficult task; it is not by chance that we have been familiar with the idea of free business zones since 2011, and I say that the legislative environment is ready or almost ready, but I think there is still work to be done here. It would therefore be necessary in these areas, in the most disadvantaged areas, to help those living there, not only through budgetary means, but also by other means, because I believe that this will provide the ultimate solution. [[14.40]] By the way, overall, I think that the figures and amounts in the budget for the 18th are appropriate to address a significant part of the problems. And what I have drawn attention to here, which does not apply only to the next budget, but must be constantly reflected in the budgets of the coming years in order to achieve results. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-17-64	Thank you very much. Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP. Here you go.
u2017-05-17-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I will talk about the budget from the point of view of how it can reduce income inequality, the gap between the poor and the rich, and what it will do to lift those in difficulty, for social justice. Today, Hungary has developed an unfair social structure where practically only 10-20 percent of society, but mostly the top 10 percent, can say that it is in a good financial situation, not living from one month to another, and has savings. Three-quarters of people would have an unexpected expense, two-thirds of them wouldn't be able to travel for a week. KSH data show that in recent years there has not been a strong middle class that Fidesz has promised, on the contrary: the government's social policy for wealthy people has led some of the lower middle class to sink into poverty, and the number of middle class has also decreased. The chasm grew, the rich became richer, the poor became poorer. Society is becoming more and more torn apart into a handful of rich people and their salaries are not coming out to millions of people who are barely able. The report of the Policy Agenda on last year's life-time. According to this, 36 percent of the population's income in 2016 did not reach a minimum of HUF 88 619 per capita. That's about 3.5 million people. Neither last year nor this year, i.e. in the seventh year of Fidesz government, the minimum wage did not reach the minimum wage. Last year it was 74 thousand forints net, 85 thousand forints this year. Public wages are even less than 52 thousand forints. For a million people, this is the poverty of certain workers when working in vain, they cannot provide their families with work. It is a shame that the minimum wage will reach the minimum wage only in the 8th year of Fidesz governance. The minimum of living that's ridiculously low. But let me quote a further figure: this was reported by the KSH in the days and contains the average Hungarian consumption data for 2016. This, too, paints a shocking picture of the income situation. The average Hungarian spends 77 100 forints a month, 26,5 percent of which on food. That is, he only spends 670 forints a day on food, but many consume even less. Well, what I'm asking is how pro-government politicians can make a living, that is, spend 670 forints a day on food. That's awfully little. These figures show people's real income situation better than, for example, the average wage reported by the government. Average wage figures cover a lot of things, especially the real picture. Behind the average, there is a great deal of dispersion and wage increases, such as an unpaid two-and-a-half-time salary increase by central bank managers or a wage supplement for social workers, which does not change the fact that they are working for the worst wages in the country. The average wage also masks the roaring differences between the individual parts of the country, how divided the country is. I looked up on the KSH side of the country's most eastern county, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, which is known to be one of the poorest counties in Hungary, what wages are like. Last year, I found that the average monthly net was 118 thousand forints, two thirds of the national average, while the wages in Budapest were more than 100,000 net, accounting for nearly half of the wages in Budapest. I also looked at how this has changed since 2010, and I saw that while the wages in Szabolcs have only increased by 12%, the Budapesters have increased by more than three times at a rate of 39 percent. So instead of falling, the difference just continued to grow. So this shows, Mr. Secretary, that the tear is accelerating. Of course, low wages play a major role in community service, which pays hunger wages. More than a third of public workers work in Szabolcs and Borsod. 99 percent of the new jobs announced in Szabolcs are supported jobs, i.e. mostly public works. The dominant counties of public works are in a vicious circle, there are no job opportunities, only public works, so there is no solvent demand, there is little consumption, and businesses are vanishing. These counties are victims of this very bad government concept, which does not give rise to an outbreak of evil poverty. It is no coincidence that Szabolcs County belongs to the northern lowland region, which is not only included in the last twenty poorest regions of the 276 European Union regions, but is at the level of the 9th, i.e. the most backward Romanian and Bulgarian regions. Its GDP per capita accounts for 43% of the EU average. These are data without which you can't get a full picture if you're only listening to government success propaganda about average wage data. The average covers a lot of things. I think that next year's budget will not be the budget of many people instead of the few. There will be no outbreak of poverty, no budget for reducing social disparities. The government will continue to pursue a social policy that will break up society, which will give little and more to the few. There will be an unfair tax system that will take hundreds of thousands of dollars out of the pockets of low-income earners every year and give them to those who already have one. There is an anti-poor social policy, which, despite promises, leaves people who cannot take care of themselves on the side of the road, and a family policy based on family discrimination remains, most of which is given to families in the family model of government, with many children and upper middle-class families, and abandons families in poverty. As we said in the tax laws debate, according to the LMP, a multi-key income tax is a fundamental condition for fair public burdens. In our system, the net minimum wage would increase by HUF 33 000 in addition to the multi-key tax and employee contribution reduction, instead of the HUF 7,000 foreseen by the government. The average area earners could take home more than 38,000 forints, and the double average wage earners would take 31,000 forints. You can sense the difference. Over a million forints a month, earners would only get their taxes up. In addition, to raise wages for low wage earners in the public sector, we would spend 300 billion against 65 billion of the government, which is intended to raise wages. While I was not here, Mr. State Secretary, I had a two-minute window, and I told you that we would find investments in the budget that would allow money to be transferred here: City Park, Paks, stadiums would cover this demand a great deal. As I said, the government's anti-poor social policy continues, instead of aid, under the heading 'work', but the government does not provide for a living. According to the LMP, poverty could indeed be broken down by work, but with work that also provides a real livelihood, rather than keeping people in the circle of aid and community service. Over the past seven years, the government has spent thousands of billions on public work, while not helping people get out of the labour market with training and working on a hunger basis. [[14.50]] Sooner or later, the government will have to admit that that HUF 52,000 is practically the same as that of hunger. While public works are now falling by 100 billion, only one third of this, 29 billion, is being transferred to government training instead of spending all available resources on training and labour market programmes. The LMP would provide HUF 40 billion of public works for employment and training support and 20 billion for adult education. It would also launch a job creation programme for low-skilled people in labour-intensive industries such as construction and agriculture. Within the framework of our Green Economy Development Programme, we would create tens of thousands of jobs across the country with energy efficiency investments, building energy-saving public housing and social land programmes. If the government simply reduces public work resources by 100 billion and does not provide any other assistance, does not create jobs in disadvantaged areas, we see that there will be unforeseen consequences. The amount of aid will remain frozen, and 22 800 HUF will continue next year. You simply can't make anything out of 22 800 forints, just starve to death. The question is, in places or counties where people have been working in public work for years, how will they be able to make a living with this money, what will they do with it. Or are you planning to keep community service in the eastern part of the country for years? Then we can be sure that the fall of the eastern part of the country will be even greater, the poverty of the people who live here. But there are also tragic consequences for leaving the minimum pension amount unchanged at HUF 28 500 for the tenth year next year. Well, that seems to be your intention. The minimum pension was also the victim of one of Fidesz's retirement plans. The government promised to preserve the value of pensions, compared to this, the pension minimum did not increase by a single HUF. So this is an eloquent proof that their real value has not been preserved. What kind of life can the poorest pensioners live, who receive a pension of HUF 28 500? We suggested raising the amount to HUF 50,000, and the Welfare Committee voted against it without any heartache, but we will submit it again and again. As we will also recommend an increase in the care fee. The basic amount of the care fee will increase by HUF 1600 next year. We want those who care for their disabled child or other relatives at home to receive the minimum wage for their work. Today, they are sentenced to poverty by the special care fee of HUF 50,000, while taking over from the state and serving them 24 hours a day. The per capita normative of residential institutions is around 93,000 forints, the minimum wage will rise to 92 thousand forints next year. At the same time, we believe that support for children's homes, the resources of the child protection institution, must also be increased, because the government has not replaced the constraints of recent years. We would increase resources by HUF 40 billion and increase the wages of social workers. In these institutions, neither physical nor personal conditions are currently adequate for the proper care of children, as there are not enough professionals. We would use HUF 30 billion to raise the wages of social workers. Family policy measures do not help to prevent the break-down of social groups, according to the government's family support philosophy, families should be helped, provided for those who are not really in need. This is what the family tax relief for multi-child workers is all about or the CSOK programme, which is still growing to 226 billion in the future. Meanwhile, the family allowance will be frozen for 10 years next year, and so will the child. Central housing support has been abolished and there will still be no public housing programme. Single - parent families, with the highest proportion of families with children, have 62 percent of the population living in poverty or social exclusion, still cannot rely on help. The family allowance remains only 1500 HUF higher. The LMP does not distinguish between first and second-class families, all families are equally important to us, and as the government's distorted family policy still doubles poverty in families with children, we recommend increasing the family allowance that plays a prominent role in reducing poverty. We would increase the family allowance by 30 percent, i.e. the LMP, to a greater extent for single-parent families. We would also provide a source for a 30% increase in the child and for large families to benefit from the right of single parents. In addition, we would restore income-intensive housing support and launch a public housing programme. We will present all these as an amendment proposal and we very much hope that the government will support them. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-05-17-66	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, State Secretary Péter Benő Banai has applied for a speech. Here you go.
u2017-05-17-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The question of catch-up or territorial differences has been raised in several contributions. This is what Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck spoke about, as well as Mr Sándor Czomba and Mr Zoltán Magyar spoke about earlier territorial differences. Allow me to briefly address the question of what aspect of catching up can be understood and what the government has done to ensure that catch-up is achieved. I can determine at least three different levels of catching up. The first is the performance of the economy as a whole, where I think it is crucial that the expansion of the Hungarian economy since 2013 and, according to the proposed budget law of 2018, before us, could still exceed the EU average in 2018. To all kinds of catching up issues, I think that's the first point. If the country's economic performance is increasing and, by the way, it shows real convergence to the European Union average, then there is a chance to address the various catching-up issues within the country. The second question, where I have to argue with Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, is the social differences, the catching up of poorer or less disadvantaged layers. It was said that the budget was unfair, that it divides little and a few, that it increases social differences. I do not see this at all in the draft budget law for 2018, nor in the budget figures for 2017, nor in the tax rules related thereto, or in the 2016 figures for example. What are we talking about? Increasing social disparities would be meaningful if the government had proposed tax rules or applied a policy of support that would increase the differences mentioned by the Member. I see the exact opposite of that. On the one hand, there is a proportionate single-key tax system for the tax system and, on the other hand, for wages, this year or next year, the increase in the minimum wage and the minimum wage of skilled workers, which has already been mentioned many years, is at a rate that has not been seen since 1990. In the whole system of expenditure and, if you like, work-related economic policy rules and measures, I see that, yes, it is more worthwhile to work instead of aid, if there is no other job, at least to participate in public work and work in the primary labour market. This gradual regulatory and financing system, I think, provides the opportunity for the most disadvantaged groups and social groups to open up the possibility of catching up, because instead of aid, public work provides more income and greater opportunities, greater wage and pay opportunities for the primary labour market. In addition, Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, may I draw your attention to the fact that, if you look at the consumption structure of the lowest-income social groups, I would like to point out that both VAT reductions for basic foods - milk, eggs, pigs, poultry or next year - are higher in the consumer basket, so the important thing is that the reduction in VAT on basic foods and the reduction in costs for the social groups mentioned by you appear to represent a higher proportion in the consumer basket. [[15.00]] So these government measures helped to improve the quality of life of the more disadvantaged social groups. As regards the third aspect of catching up, as regards territorial differences, there is no doubt that there are significant differences in the country, whether - as Mr Sándor Czomba mentioned - in employment figures, I am thinking of unemployment or gross wages, whether in terms of investment and opportunities for private businesses. What can the government do to remedy these territorial differences? I think one of the things that should be highlighted is the definition of the legislative environment, which places investment and new jobs in regions where the situation is worse. State aid rules, the rules that determine how much state resources a company can receive either in the form of direct aid or in the form of tax incentives, affect it in the direction that it is more worthwhile to invest in Szabolcs than in Vas County, for example, because if a company invests in Szabolcs, it will receive greater State aid than in Vas County. This is a fundamental regulatory instrument and, of course, in addition to regulation, the government institutional system seeks to direct investments into these areas through direct support under these rules. Mr Sándor Czomba mentioned the free business zones. Here, too, is special regulation. I agree that it is worth reviewing this set of rules, whether we can still refine. But the message, the point I want to make, is that there are measures now, there are legislation and concrete actions that affect the reduction of territorial differences. In the case of territorial differences, I must also highlight infrastructure development, as an investor invests in Szabolcs, for example, if the infrastructure is good. The funds for road construction and road development will also serve this purpose in the next year's budget, and the government's goal is to provide all county seats with an expressway network. In order to achieve this goal, the proposal for a budget law for next year also outlines significant items of the order of 100 billion. I think it is also a step towards reducing territorial differences. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] So I think that if we are talking about catching up, we are also looking at the direction of change, in addition to the tasks and problems that are undoubtedly ahead of us. From this aspect, in addition to the static approach from the dynamic aspect, I think that the processes mentioned by Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck are positive, and that the country as a whole is catching up, in terms of catching up with individual social groups within the country, or in terms of catching up in the least developed or less developed areas within the country, I think that there are many elements in the proposal for a budget law for next year that will carry on so far. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-17-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, A two-minute speech was submitted by Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, the LMP Group. I give you the floor.
u2017-05-17-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond immediately to Mr Secretary of State's comments. In fact, when we are discussing a budget, we are arguing about nothing but a country, a government's social and economic policy. I'm sure we can agree on that. You started by saying that the economy has grown in recent years, that it has done very well and that everything will be fine. But let's look at the details, not the macro numbers - you always come with macro data - but what is behind it, what is behind economic performance. First of all, the global economic situation has shown a positive trend and is going well in the world, and we have been able to sit on this wave. This is shown by the fact that the subsidiaries of foreign multinational companies are here in Hungary, and they have served the country to the automotive industry. We are very dependent on the global economy. If the world economy changes, we will also be sliding down. It's one of the items. What's the other item? EU funds. For example, do you not think that if you disperse next year, you will use all the EU funds, what will happen to this country in 2019, 2020 and 2021? At the beginning of the year, when EU funds did not come for some time, GDP growth went downhill. What's the third major item? The fact that young people and older people leave Hungary to work abroad and send the money home. Now, if we put these three together, I wouldn't brag about the fact that the country is doing extremely well and our economy is super stable. That's not true. We're on very unstable feet. That's half of it. The economy's all torn up, by the way. The very few multinationals you're always in favour of. Now, just to point out, it is permissible in Hungary today that Audi's request [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] submit a slave law. I'll pick it up later. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-17-70	Thank you. For a two-minute speech, I will give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő..., sorry, not for two minutes, but to Mr Péter Benő Banai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-17-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. With regard to the comments made by the Member, I must argue that economic performance is only backed by favourable international processes or the transfer of funds from the European Union and from foreigners. Again, I have to say that if this were the case, Greece would have to soar. Is Greek performance not influenced by what is happening in the European Union? Has Greece not long since been a net beneficiary of EU aid? Didn't workers leave Greece to the West? So my statement is that, of course, the factors mentioned by you have an impact on the expansion of the economy, and the quality of economic policy is what, in my opinion, fundamentally determines the expansion of the economy. For EU aid, let me mention that, given the nature of the EU cycles, the number of EU funds actually used in the real economy in 2016 decreased by several percentage points of GDP compared to 2015. If only EU funds were to determine the expansion of the economy, there should have been an economic downturn in 2016, instead it would have been an economic expansion of 2 per cent. So I'm gonna put this in everyone's attention. And when we talk about social catch-up, yes, we have to start from these macro-data, because if there is economic growth and it is accompanied by an increase in the number of people employed and coupled with the increase in real wages, then the funds from which we can finance investments to reduce, for example, territorial disparities are available in the budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-17-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr László Teleki, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-17-73	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Sándor Czomba made me say some thoughts. He said that the resources in the budget may not be enough for re-training. I venture to risk that the source will certainly not be enough, because after the regional conversion centers, István Türr was also eliminated, and there is no way to see how, for example, adult training and various re-trainings are realized. And my fear is that the source that can otherwise be seen in the budget will not be used to prevent those who are trapped in the public employment trap from breaking out with various re-trainings, trainings and adult training, but on the contrary: entrepreneurs will be supported again, not those who are trapped in a trap from which they should break out. He also mentioned, Mr Czomba, former State Secretary, our fellow Member, that public employment is an important tool for those who choose or receive this form of work not to receive aid. I do not see that they can break out of this situation with this budget, and I even see that they are freezing the public workers into the trap, the employment trap in which they are. If they don't line up for aid now, they'll definitely be there in a year or two. So I do not see the concept in the budget of wanting to lead people out of the trap who have been trapped in this trap for a year or two or damage for five years, so that public employment can give them another option, another employment opportunity that can lead them to the primary competitive market. [[15.10]] So, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask and suggest that you try to include in the budget lines that will remove the public employment trap, and not only this will be the only alternative, which is good, but it is not enough to get out of this trap. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-17-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for another two-minute speech, I now give the floor to Mr Vinnai Győző, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-17-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Before I say my comment, there is only one reaction to what the Secretary of State has said, because I very much agree with it - I am a representative of Szabolcs County, an individual Member of Parliament, Nyíregyháza and its surroundings, and Western Szabolcs - that investments must be supported, whether it is about strengthening domestic businesses, or about large foreign companies, and not only by giving state aid, but also, as you said, by infrastructure development. For example, the Lego investment was located in Nyíregyháza, and we made all kinds of infrastructure investments before it, this is the western bypass road from the motorway to the Lego factory, and therefore Duplo produces its product 99 percent in Nyíregyháza and Hungary. But it is also necessary - and I would like to say this - to transform vocational training into a skilled workforce where there are territorial inequalities or disadvantages, because I agree with Sándor Czomba that there is still room for improvement in labour mobility. Ladies and gentlemen, What does the 2018 budget say to the Hungarian people? I could briefly sum up that it is worth working, it is worth having a child, it is worth sacrificing safety, and here, by security, I mean border security, and, of course, in economic policy measures, strengthening the security of life, because the 2018 budget will be stable and people from work will have a budget. Many have said that instead of a welfare-based society, we need a work-based society, and I say very simply, as people in my constituency say: if there is work, there is everything, if there is no work, there is nothing; and these data are either an increase in employment or a reduction in unemployment. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] Think, my fellow Member - I say to my better fellow Member - that the county of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg had regions 8-10 years ago where unemployment was 20-25-30 percent [[Zoltán Pride: Now it's 70! Dr. László György Lukács intervenes. Zoltán Pride: Now it's 70!]] It is now around 4 percent in Nyíregyháza and around Nyíregyháza, at the national average, and, for example, in Tisavasvári, mentioned as your model city, there is 11 percent unemployment, which we consider to be a lot, it needs work, but of course it requires cooperation. Thus, employment, which has been mentioned by several people, has created 700 000 new jobs since 2010, of which about half a million have been created in the competitive sector, the primary labour market, as we can talk about some 200,000 public workers. Let me say that last year, in 2016, there were 34 500 people in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County who found work in public employment, so they lived from work, they did not receive aid, but of course we also know that this is a transitional system and that more and more people need to find their way back to the primary labour market. I think that it is also intended to promote full employment due to wage increases or wage increases, as the government can raise wages in the public sector - here we talked about the teacher's career model, law enforcement workers, wage increases for public administration workers, or about nurses in the social field, so there is a long list - but in the market area, the reduction of contributions is the basis for wage increases, and the agreement, the six-year agreement that helps Hungarian entrepreneurs to raise the minimum wage by reducing taxes and reducing contributions in 2018 or even by non-Hungarian companies. After 15 percent this year, the minimum wage will increase by 8 percent next year, and the minimum wage will increase by 12 percent after 25 percent this year, and I will tell you that it will be 180 thousand forints, which has been double since 2010, so in 2010 it was just half of that. This therefore shows that Hungarian economic policy works, or that the Hungarian economic model works, as the Minister of National Economy said yesterday, if I remember correctly, that thank you very much, the Hungarian economy, thank you very much, is well. This 4.1 percent first quarter growth - I looked at the statistics - is one of the highest recently, but from 2013 there were only two quarters when the Hungarian economy grew by 1.3 and 1.6 percent in the quarter. This economy is therefore growing unbroken. The first objective is therefore the labour-based society, increasing employment, reducing unemployment, which should be strengthened by wage-raising programmes. In parentheses, I remember that during the first civil government, in 1999, the minimum wage was doubled from HUF 19 500 to HUF 40,000, then after that, also during the first civil government, from 40 thousand to 50 thousand. And when there is a civil government, there is a significant increase in the minimum wage or the minimum wage of skilled workers, as we see now, when the socialists were in power, a few thousand forints or a few percent increase if there were. The second goal, in my opinion, is to support families, because the appreciation of work can sustain society, which is based on families, and to do so, security must be associated. Family taxation works in Hungary and is also a unique model in Europe, some one million families - more than 3 million people - use the family tax relief, and today this has not been said, but the tax relief of two children will increase to HUF 35 thousand per month in 2018. But if I look at housing, I look at the home creation program, then the budget has HUF 226 billion available for young people's or even young people's home creation programmes. And let us not forget, of course, that pensioners will be raised by 3 percent in 2018 according to the budget plans. The third objective is to strengthen the country's security, to protect borders, to strengthen external security, to strengthen internal security. We spend 514 billion forints or spend next year on public security according to budget figures, this is 19 percent - 19 percent! - more resources than this year. Ladies and gentlemen, What's the background? In my opinion, it is a stable, growing economy, the sixth year of economic growth, and, according to budgetary figures, GDP growth will be 4.3 percent next year with a 2.4 percent deficit and 3 percent inflation. Allow me to say a little bit about education, because, in addition to demographic issues, which are very important, I consider family support, economic indicators and education to be a very important area, public education, higher education and the transformation of vocational training. I would like to talk about vocational training here in particular, because the shortage of labour - as we have heard from Sándor Czomba - is happening somewhere, they cannot find the right workforce, and therefore training in that area has a very important role to play. Next year we can spend 80 billion, some 81 billion forints more on education, 5 percent more than this year, and after a quick head count, we will spend more than 1600 billion forints on education from elementary school to university and vocational training institutions. [[15.20]] The other is the issue of EU funds. We can also involve significant EU funds for school development, especially for school development in backward areas. I would like to refer here to the EFOP application programme. Some of the HUF 952 billion goes to education development and infrastructure development. The budget will cover the continuation of wage-raising programmes. The increase in the wages of higher education workers will continue by 5% and the teacher career model will be completed. Here, because of the ratings, you have to add an additional source from the teacher category I to the teacher category II or from the master teacher to the research teacher; so these are the four grades that represent the ratings. Ladies and gentlemen, Then briefly about the transformation of vocational education and training so far and some budgetary implications. The Hungarian economy is developing rapidly. Large companies of the world's technological edge are already present in Hungary. However, further development cannot be envisaged without a higher quality vocational training system that offers opportunities for a wide range of society. We need a well-trained and reliable skilled workforce that can be involved in modern production. The government has been paying particular attention to this since 2010, and it has shown results. If I may, I would like to briefly describe these results in telegram style. Training, expanding dual training, stimulating companies and businesses to participate in dual training has become training-oriented in order to learn the profession. It became a complex exam, a comprehensive complex exam. From twenty-one years to twenty-five years, the number of day-care courses has increased. The acquisition of the second qualification has become free; more than 20,000 people have made use of this opportunity last year, and we believe that this will increase. The institutions have been transformed, new types of institutions have been created. The vocational secondary schools became vocational schools, the vocational schools became vocational secondary schools. A four plus one and three plus two model was formed. In four years, you can get a qualification and a GED in the gymnasium, plus a year's tech qualification. There's a shortage of technicians. I'll just keep it in parentheses. And the other is that in three years you can get skills, plus two years of graduation. Encouraging deficiency trainings with a scholarship system. There is also a separate budget line for this, and the review of the National Training Note is under way with the coordination of the Chamber. Dear House, I would like to say three or four numbers, which are in the chapter of the Ministry of National Economy, as 70 percent of vocational training institutions are carried out in the maintenance of the Ministry of National Economy, coordination of vocational training centres, agricultural training belongs to the Ministry of Agriculture, and there are also ecclesiastical and private vocational training institutions, so this is a popular form, since only 205 000 people have applied to the vocational school. It's a popular form; almost as many as a few thousand differences, like in general high school, and 105,000 students in vocational school. This can be expanded in my opinion.143 billion HUF support appropriations are included for the maintenance of vocational training institutions within the framework of vocational training centres, and 145 billion is expenditure, which shows a deficit of 2 billion, but this 2 billion is not a deficit, because it is the institutions' own income. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say very briefly that funding for adult education can also be found in the draft budget. It is very important, because we would also like to change adult education, and this is a top-up chapter, with the government's permission, which is very important in this area. I would like to mention two things before the summary. One is that the free textbook service covers the 9th grade, so it covers the first class in middle school, vocational schools, vocational schools and high schools. Next year, the state will support the first successful language exam and the first advanced foreign language graduation. The additional cost of this is included in the draft budget. The government supports the acquisition of the first driving licence and supports the classroom, gym and school building program, which is included in the draft budget with HUF 6 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up: I would like to say about education and vocational training, and I know that the Ministry of National Economy is working on new projects, how to renew the vocational training system, how to further refine it and look forward to the content development that may be achieved next year. To sum up, the aim is to strengthen education, to receive more resources, to ensure the functioning of schools, to develop infrastructure, to involve EU funds, to develop content, which actually provides a modern, modern knowledge base, and to catch up with disadvantaged social groups is also an important goal. An extension of free textbooks and meals, and a wage-raise program included in the career model. So education helps the economic processes and employment indicators set by the 2018 budget as targets. I would also ask my fellow opposition Members to support this budget if they are under pressure. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-17-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Gőgös, MSZP Group.
u2017-05-17-77	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that Mr Secretary of State is, as usual, an active part of the debate, and that is okay. 'Cause yesterday, your colleagues here have been listening to you like cow pie in the grass all day. So no one's told me what we're talking about, not about taxes or other laws, and that's not good. Well, that's a good thing when something goes down, that's what we get the answer to. I'm gonna have a few questions right now. I'm sure he's trying to give you an answer. First of all, I would like to mention that the minimum wage has been mentioned here by several people, as well as by Winner Vinnai, that it has not risen, but I would like to say something. The real value of 2010 was achieved net this year. So everyone here is constantly talking about huge gross wage increases, which, of course, is far from gross where the wages of the neighbouring countries are now going to be higher in Romania, but these increases have actually brought huge revenues to the state, because businesses pay a lot of different contributions and taxes, and minimum wagers also pay the company. You don't have to figure out how much it was in the last Fidesz government year because there was no tax after that. It's always forgotten when we talk about it, and we continue to claim that it's a perverted tax system that gives on top and takes at the bottom. The other is that we have also talked about the dynamic growth of the economy in the debate. In two years it was partly due to the activity of agriculture. There were two very, very good years. It is important to know that in 50 years there weren't exactly two weather environments like that in 2015 and 16 years. This is, of course, reflected in the country's performance, but I add that this year is not like that. So I would like to say to Mr Secretary of State that if the same figure has been calculated for agriculture as before, they have been calculated above, because it will not be such a good year. So I'm pretty sure not in the autumn stalkers, we don't know about corn, anything can happen yet, but I'm pretty sure there won't be a record year this year, which, let's say, would lead to about a 2% increase in the total product, and we're also at a very low production price base, which is bad for producers because it's been compensated by higher crops, but now it's not going to. I would also like to say that the administration, the paying agency, has been taken apart. So now in this budget, for example, the paying agency, like the MVH, does not have a separate line. At least so far, we knew about how much money there was and what resources we could expect when it comes to using EU funds, but this is not the case. [[15.30]] Now three ministries are overseeing some kind of division that we can't understand. But I have already signalled to Minister Lazarus, and he has also given an answer that there has not been an example of a 100 billion-dollar deficit at the end of May. So when the budget was planned last year at the same time in 2016, this year, there was a pretty serious direct payment of aid. We don't know what's gonna happen to this. But once again, it is unprecedented that hundreds of billions of dollars are not paid at the end of May. The fact that producers are silent on this obviously does not mean that they are happy. I recommend to everyone the Agroinform forum section, there are 1300-1400 entries. And even though Minister Lazarus told me that 90 percent of the area payments were paid, he did not add that the basic aid, which, by the way, is only 60 percent of the total aid, is still 40 percent, subject to other conditions, is still in the Moon, which would now be a good time to give because not everyone is so good as to bear it. The other is that, obviously, every budget can be taken seriously as much as it can be achieved. I do not see in Amendment 17 that EU payments have been withdrawn, but I am thinking specifically of proposals, but there is no way that this year there will be 360 million EU applications. There are three applications out of the thousand. If I take into account the times when public procurement has to be launched, this year, let alone no payment, no investment will be launched. Interestingly, this is now planned for 250 billion next year, and I don't know how this big commitment will be in 18, but one thing is certain about agriculture and agricultural subsidies. That's a big problem, because everyone was waiting for this, and everyone wanted to use these resources as soon as possible. All I can say is that there is a huge problem in the institutional system. After a slice of this is supervised by the Secretary of State, the Treasury, sit down very, very urgently, and talk to each other about where the problem is, because right now, no one understands exactly that the problem is on the control side, which belongs to the government office, or to the tender review, which is also booked as a civil servant's function, or to the paying agency itself, which is specifically the Treasury. So I think these things need to be clarified very, very urgently, because this cannot stay. I understand this is the third time I will say the same thing, that the government is not taking itself seriously, because they have taken a government decision to raise the national subsidy line with an appropriate amount each year, and that is why Sándor Fazekas and Mihály Varga are responsible. Well, I didn't make it this time. Then we should withdraw that government decree, Mr. Secretary. There is a fixed amount here that is determined how much to increase, which is almost the only source of market disturbance management. Then we should either keep it or not bring it in, because it doesn't make any sense. By the way, just for the record, a line of praise will be given to the government as regards EU funds. The technical assistance was paid almost 100 percent. That's the line the government's spending on you because it's funding the apparatus. It's paid 100 percent. So that's why there's all the payments and the agricultural and environmental management paid for, otherwise nothing else. So it's also a funny category that while the system doesn't work, TS is well spent. So we should reconsider this restructuring. I was going to tell you that. The other one. Here, the VAT reduction of basic foods has been mentioned several times. I will also tell Mr Secretary of State, because he was probably not here at the time, because he came later to the debate this afternoon about milk being mentioned here. Six percent of milk consumption goes into this system, Mr Secretary, because most people consume UHT milk. I am telling you, and I hope that you will reach the Prime Minister and Mr Lazarus, there is no preservative, Mr Secretary of State. Someone made up the stupidity of not reducing UHT's VAT because it's got a preservative in it. I told you yesterday that it's in a six-layer box, and in an ultra-pasteurized environment, there's no preservative in the UHT milk. But the population is obviously because it doesn't need to be cooled, and not everyone has a fridge, and this is what the 110-forint Slovak milk is pouring on us, obviously free of VAT, Mr. Secretary of State. I also told Mr Tállai yesterday that the EKÁER can be placed around where it belongs, because it does not touch exactly what it should, this type of direct import. No VAT, because there is no 115 HUF milk in Slovakia, I would like to say. That's just because they're reclaiming the tax three times. Someone, obviously, because they're on a high level because I can't think of anything else, doesn't do anything to prevent it. That's one of them. The other one. I am telling my fellow Members of Szabolcs that they should be raging here to include fruit and vegetables in this circle. The Hungarian producers are killed by imported vegetables, fruit, the 45 HUF Slovak viral potatoes, and in two weeks the 600 HUF strawberry, which we don't even know where it grows, what chemical remains are filled with, because Nébih has a reduction, not an increase in the number. Therefore, these should be taken into account and resources should be provided. And at that moment, you wouldn't be able to play with VAT on fruit and vegetables. 60 percent of it would turn white, and everyone would benefit from it, because one should not be forgotten if you cheat on VAT, because you can't make your income official if you sell it black. From then on, he doesn't officially pay wages, and let alone minimum wage, no wages, or even pockets something for the people who work for the price of hunger. So I think that there is a lot to do here and that the budget figures will be true if this system remains sustainable even if there is no more EU funds. It has been said here that after 2020, these systems are expected to be transformed, that the agricultural support system will also move and that community building will be the most financed. We should be getting ready for this right now. But one thing I'm sure of is that with this system of institutions that you just did, I'm not protecting the MVH, it wasn't a normal system, it wasn't a dispute, but the fact that it's been taken into three more parts just made it worse. So, Mr Secretary of State, look at what is wrong with this system, I have repeatedly indicated this in various parliamentary and informal genres, but it cannot be held that there is still a hundred billion unpaid direct subsidies in June when it should be reaped slowly, and I do not know where our producers will buy gas oil from. So we continue to say that this budget is not for the average and not for the little man, but for the speculators and the craftsmen again. We see how much EU funding is being given here for the land we have acquired. I'd like to draw your attention to one more thing, Mr. Secretary. This budget is again improved by 70 billion government land sales, which is, say, the 17th, this year's realization, but it comes into the state register without anyone checking what's behind it, there's cigarette smuggling, tobacco, other smuggling, bootlegging, what's going on. 'Cause no one's gonna see where they got the money for what they bought the land from. That's what I'm suggesting to you, because you can't file a property investigation. Billionaire items came out of the pillow pants here, Mr. Secretary, billions. It's not five million and ten million from the little man, because it's perfectly okay that he has savings. But some families have bought land for 2 billion, for 2 billion, not on credit, in cash! So that's what I'm telling you, if you're still trying to clean up, at least take it back from the Nappers, we're not gonna have to do everything next year. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2017-05-17-78	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement by Mr Imre Vejkey, KDNP Group. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-05-17-79	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On 2 May 2017, Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, submitted on behalf of the Government the T/15381 on Hungary's central budget for 2018. Bill No.1 to the Hungarian Parliament, simultaneously handing it directly to President László Kövér. The draft budget law for 2018 presents the budget appropriations for 2018 in the same structure as the draft budget law for 2017, broken down into domestic operational and accumulation and Union development expenditure and revenue, thereby ensuring transparency of budgetary appropriations and comparability with the budget for the previous year. In line with the Convergence Programme, the government set out an economic growth of 4.3 per cent of GDP in 2018 in the proposed budget law for 2018. This economic growth will allow more money to remain with the Hungarian people next year. [[15.40]] Ladies and Gentlemen, The 2018 budget includes new tax cuts, wage increases and family policy measures for Hungarian families. The tax relief of families with two children continues to increase, the income of families increases with wage increases, more for free children's meals and free textbooks, and the maximum amount of ged increases. Ladies and Gentlemen, Now, let's look at the numerical data. From next January, the tax relief of families with two children will increase by HUF 35,000 per month, and the following year will double the amount of tax relief in four years. Next year, the first married couple will receive a discount of HUF 5 000 per month. [[Dr. László Kács: Monthly or one-off?]] And for two years, it's definitely walking, regardless of whether or not the family's first child is born. With the increase in the minimum wage, the maximum amount of the Gyed will be increased, so next year it will be HUF 193 200 gross, almost twice the amount in 2010. The government has decided that in the next academic year, instead of the first six years, we will provide free textbooks to students in the first nine years. The amount of the free children's meals will increase by HUF 5 billion next year, which will increase the support of children's meals almost three times since the 2010 government change to HUF 79.3 billion. A special HUF 7 billion will be available for the holiday meal. With a family-friendly budget, we want to send a message that it is worth having children and raising children in Hungary. In the next year's budget, the total amount of HUF 140 billion is HUF 1900 billion in support of families raising children. The amount for 2018 is almost double what was intended for families in 2010. Next year's money for families is one of the best figures in Europe in terms of GDP, 4.7 percent, almost a third higher than in 2010. Next year, financial subsidies will rise by HUF 30 billion to HUF 640 billion. We will spend more than twice as much on the various services compared to 2010, so it will amount to more than HUF 400 billion. Next year we will spend two and a half times this year on nursery services, with a total of almost 37 billion forints. The goal is to give mothers the opportunity to take up work in addition to raising children. In the framework of the Women's 40, next year there will be 26 billion HUF more, a total of 260 billion HUF. We provide HUF 2.6 billion for the first free successful language exam, but if more resources are needed, we will increase this amount. Erzsébet will have 4.4 billion HUF available next year. An additional HUF 8.5 billion for the development of the Zánka and Fonyódliget camps. What is new is that the parents of children born abroad who are Hungarian nationals, regardless of where they live, will receive the single HUF 64 thousand maternity allowance as if they were living in Hungary. In addition, the amount of family benefits that Hungarian families can apply increases. In 2018, the monthly tax allowance will increase to HUF 17.5 thousand per child, while the state support for the home creation programme will continue. In 2018 we provide HUF 226 billion for this purpose. The pensioners will also receive a 3 per cent pension increase and a pension premium. Ladies and Gentlemen, What do these numbers show? That Fidesz-KDNP is trying to solve the demographic problem, that is, the historical task of the few children's problems, by mobilising internal reserves, not by installing migrants, as they want to do in Brussels. Whatever they come up with in Brussels, we will never solve it with migrants. We will not give up our values, even if they want to launch another coordinated international attack from Brussels today, on 17 May 2017. Ladies and Gentlemen, They need to know that the Liberálbolshevist circles [[Zoltán Grimlock: Are you serious? How about the Pope?]] today, they were about to hurt us again in the European Parliament. They are currently planning to vote in favour of the 7th criminal article in Hungary, which may result in the withdrawal of our right to vote and the suspension of EU subsidies. Why did the entire Liberálbolshevist network move to our country? Because we did not allow Hungary to be put under ever greater pressure from Brussels. Because we didn't let others decide energy prices, taxes for us. [[Dr. László Kács: Then you should give it cheaper!]] on the regulation of higher education [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] support for job creation or who we live with in our own country. Because we believe that in Hungarian people, as opposed to Western Europeans, there is still enough vital force to reverse negative demographic processes without involving migrants. Because we said that a single university, so CEU can't be above Hungarian law, even if it was founded by György Soros. [[The problem is that you didn't say that!]] Because we did not allow Soros and Co. funded organizations to hide behind the cover of an independent expert, thus deceiving the Hungarian and international public opinion. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Everyone is stupid!]] Because we said that our opponents are interested in many things, but not in the fate of Hungarians and Christianity. [[Anita Herring: That's not true!]] [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] support for job creation or who we live with in our own country. Because we believe that in Hungarian people, as opposed to Western Europeans, there is still enough vital force to reverse negative demographic processes without involving migrants. Because we said that a single university, so CEU can't be above Hungarian law, even if it was founded by György Soros. (Zoltán Pride: The problem is that you didn't say that!) Because we did not allow Soros and Co. funded organizations to hide behind the cover of an independent expert, thus deceiving the Hungarian and international public opinion. (Zoltán Grumbles: Everyone is stupid!) Because we said that our opponents are interested in many things, but not in the fate of Hungarians and Christianity. (Anita Beringes: That's not true!) 'Cause we said they were the strike team for the destruction. (Continuous noise. - The president's ringing. ) Because we have said that world liberalisation is over and that we must lay the foundations for a new world order. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: Orbánism!]] in the place of a godless consumer society. [[László Földi takes his place in the notary seat.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, In addition to supporting families, the 2018 budget is also about maintaining our security and protection. I mean, we don't have to tolerate our invasion, our strangulation, because if we don't get out of our fingers in time, we're all gonna die. We will die because in the eyes of the Liberal Bolshevists, the European united states are not a goal, but an instrument. It is a tool to eliminate indigenous European nations and Christianity itself in Europe. In their eyes, Hungary is not a country, but a country, which, if necessary, is betrayed in order to balance their own power. [[Dr. László Kács: Mr. President! Does this have anything to do with the budget?]] As in 1919, the direct consequence of which was the loss of two thirds of our country's historical territory. And now they're standing for the remaining third. Ladies and Gentlemen, The reason they don't want to share cards with us in Brussels is because we are building a world of order, law and peace, and they represent everything that is contrary to it. Since Hungary's own path, the Hungarian economy has been growing stronger than expected. In the first quarter of 2017, economic performance increased by 4.1 percent, while employment increased, public debt decreased and budget deficits were low in the seventh year. [[15.50]] Economic growth enables us to reduce taxes and raise wages. Brussels' efforts in power, however, put all these results at risk. Let us not allow our achievements to be compromised, let us not allow Brussels to dictate. Ladies and Gentlemen, This means that we are fighting now, but we already have serious results, and we can say the most important thing is that Hungary has been recaptured. We recaptured it under the banner of law, order, peace, national ideals and Christian norms. Ladies and Gentlemen, The 2018 budget means security, stability and predictability for Hungarian families as well as for businesses operating in Hungary. Hungary is therefore growing stronger and will continue to grow, while there is the Fidesz-KDNP government, more and more. Even the financial masters of the world can't hide this, they even have to recognise the results of Hungarians and offer Hungarian sovereign debt for investment. Dear fellow citizens, You can count on us, because we have done and will do everything in the past and in the future in order to maintain economic growth, wage growth and falling unemployment, even by focusing on the security of Hungarian people and families, because we consider work, family and security to be the most important social value. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, Christian Democrats support T/15381 on Hungary's central budget for 2018. Bill No. 1. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-17-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A statement will be made by Mr Zsolt Egyed, Jobbik Group. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2017-05-17-81	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Studying the draft budget, there is a huge gap in this budget. As a committed animal defender, I believe that I must voice here in this House the hundreds of thousands of people whose daily activities and whose hearts are concerned are that animal protection should come to the Western European level in Hungary as expected by a normal society. I can safely say that I now submit my proposals on these issues almost weekly. Unfortunately, the governing parties do not support or reject them. Since there's a budget debate right now, I don't want to go into the Btk. and other stuff. What is closely involved, however, and I believe that the alpha and omega of the whole animal protection and the whole situation, which is in Hungary, is nothing more than the national neutering action that we have so many times said, which I have already submitted several times, and we have a serious plan for. To quantify this fact that I am talking about here: this problem could be dealt with in Hungary with practically a billion forints, because it would be enough to neutered about a hundred thousand strays, and also to neutered animals that are staying at the house, but there is a risk that they will reproduce. But I will go further: if you would be willing to regulate the laws properly and give space to what is a huge request of the animal protection society to the current government, it is only that animals not intended for breeding must be neutered. What I'm saying is that if the state joined only half of it and the owner was obliged to join in with the other half, then this situation would be resolved in Hungary, we should not talk about this problem again. But I would like to go a little further on this subject, because the situation is much more complicated than it seems at first, because the state is now basically financing outdated lawn-master farms that can be considered practically a slaughter, because the animal that gets in there is likely to be destroyed. This more than 100-year-old system obviously cannot be maintained for long, and I believe that the 21st edition of the European Parliament and the Council should be adopted. It's not even appropriate in the first century. We would like to do so, and we would also ask you to support the abolition of these lawn estates. And since I can safely say that a national animal shelter network has been built that is run by civil society organisations and foundations, I think that this part of the state should be financed. This is a much more human and acceptable solution than this 100-year system. It is also important to talk about the fact that, in order to achieve this, we need to talk not only about legislative proposals, but we also need to talk about the fact that the decision-makers should finally listen to those civil society organisations, the representatives of associations and foundations who could really tell us what the task would be and what resources they would need to do so. Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, in the debate on Hungary's 2018 budget, these amounts we are talking about are drops in the sea. I do not want to be demagogic now, but I say that if there are 20 billion for stadiums, then such a sum of one or two billion forints, from which virtually a national problem can be solved, I do not think that they should be the subject of debate here in the Hungarian Parliament. I also think it is very important that the Hungarian state would support the civil animal protection organisations mentioned earlier, if not with money, but at least with tenders. This is also a request from them that if they could open up applications that could apply for a car or any device that could help them, believe me, it would help them so much that it could actually make their work much easier and more efficient. I have something very important to tell you here. In addition to carrying out a very commendable and very salty activity, let us not forget, fellow Members, that they are also carrying out a public task, since they are gathering stray animals in cities, villages, forests and fields that could be dangerous to humans. So there is one aspect of this question that is very useful for public service. I'm not saying it's free, but it's technically still fighting the authorities, constantly hitting walls, but their conscience is taking them and they're doing these tasks. I would like to ask my fellow members of the Government and all my fellow Members to make the few, perhaps a hundred amendments that I have tabled to the budget. [[Happy István: Unimportant!]] Mr President, if you would please and... my honourable fellow Member is right to say that it is insignificant, because I was just saying that, in comparison with the construction of a stadium, there are really insignificant amounts involved. I think that if a person with a good feeling feels that this question is even a little bit important, it will certainly stand by this question, because it is a common matter for all of us. And it should also be stated that this would mean savings in the long term, but already in the medium term, because if we had the money for, for example, spaying action and had a minimum support for these civil society organisations, from then on the problem would not regenerate itself, there would be no unwanted growth and there would be no need to maintain sedition sites, which consumes terrible money in the long term. I believe that this would mean savings in the long term. And what is still a huge challenge for the profession, and I think that there really should be a legal intervention, and behind which there is a huge black business, it runs a huge non-taxing grey economy, those propagating plants. I'm not talking about a breeder on purpose, because the breeder is a completely different subject. The propagating material is the one who practically manufactures puppies, kittens, and is boxed in Italy, Germany, Switzerland, and sells these animals for huge amounts. [[16.00]] If we went further on this subject now, there would be time, my fellow Members would realize that amazing amounts are coming to hand, even in the hands of one man for a year. It is obvious to everyone that these people, who carry out such activities, do not pay a HUF tax to the Hungarian state. Finally, I would like to touch on a subject that concerns my narrower Patria, and which I believe we must find a solution here in this House. You have to find the amount, because, for example, if someone walks towards Sajószentpéter, Kazincbarcika, I now risk having the only roundabout in the country on Sajószentpéter, which has two exits, so one can go in, you can go straight to the same place - this is unique. But aside from the joke, there really is a huge problem with the absence of the bypass section of Route 26, because it is practically a motorist, a trucker, a truck, if it wants to get away from Miskolc to Ozd, it goes through Sajószentpéter, it goes through Kazincbarcika, it goes through Putnok and many other villages, because it can't go any other way. Now, I've been contacted, and I'm guessing my Fidesz fellow Members from Borsod County have been contacted with this problem. I was the good one in Sajószentpéter in two real estates, it's amazing what the apartments look like from the inside. The walls are cracked. But there's no reason to wonder when trucks go five meters from the house day and night. So I think that there must be a solution to this, because there the lives of the people there are virtually unlivable, and on the other hand, the value of their properties is close to zero and unsellable. I would also ask you to think of this as soon as possible, because it would make the lives of tens of thousands of people, if not hundreds of thousands of people, and the situation of companies, carriers, would be greatly facilitated if a normal bypass was built and they could travel on that line. Thank you very much for listening, that is all I wanted to add to the budget debate. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-17-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman János Pócs, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-17-83	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's lesson in the discussion of the budget is what it means to stand up for Hungary, what it means to stand for the budget. Because let's face it, here in Parliament, the attacks of opposition representatives, in Brussels, by the attackers in Brussels are parallel to our budget. The question is, behind the scenes, what is the truth. Why are Members attacking the budget and attacking Prime Minister Viktor Orbán in Brussels? Because you know, as you know in Brussels, the highest virtue of the Hungarian Prime Minister is credibility; the credibility of the budget is that we have given more, we have given more in every respect than anyone would have hoped. Ladies and gentlemen, When you say today that it is a campaign budget, you acknowledge that we are giving much more than we thought we were hoping for. We do this because the Hungarian economy is stable. The government has shown what life without the IMF is, what it means to create jobs, economic policy, wage increases, tax cuts, what the foreign exchange rescue package means, what the migrant issue means, livelihood, security. These are all about, fellow Members, that the government has given more and will give more in the coming year than we had hoped for. That is why you are attacking Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Ladies and gentlemen, At the same time, remember that Ference Gyurcsány was not attacked when he took a month's salary when he took a month's pension when he introduced the visit fee, the prescription fee, when he went to bed with the IMF when he was indebted to the families. Then Brussels and the current opposition parties said that yes, this is a reform minister. In Brussels, they recognized his work and cheered him on. Ladies and gentlemen, This memory should be a lesson to all of us that what is bad for Hungarian people is good for the Hungarian opposition and good for Brussels. What is good for Hungarian people is bad for the Hungarian opposition and bad for Brussels. That is what today's budget debate is all about. Let us remember, my fellow Members, bankers, multi-taxes, utility charges, overhead cuts, tax and VAT cuts, wage increases - these are the decisions of the Orbán government, which have left thousands of billions in people's pockets. Ladies and gentlemen, What is it about the 2018 budget, highlighting some of its basic pillars. Since 2010, we have repaid the loan from the IMF and the European Union. We are constantly reducing the level of public debt. In the 2018 budget, there will be 4.3 percent economic growth, 2.4 percent deficit, and 3 percent inflation, among other things, the value of pensions will increase. The minimum wage increase continues, after 15 percent this year, the minimum wage increases by an additional 8 percent in 2018. After 25 percent this year, the minimum wage for skilled workers will increase by another 12 percent in 2018. Thus, compared to 2010, it will double. In 2018, wage-raising programmes will continue in the public sector. Health services are worth HUF 180 billion more than last year. Between 2016 and 2019 there will be 60 percent more for EMTs and 39.7 billion for this. We spend 81 billion forints more on education. We also provide an adequate financial background for border protection in the 2018 budget. Compared to 2017, there are 25 percent and 100 billion forints more resources, with a total amount of HUF 514 billion for public security. Almost all law enforcement agencies can expect additional resources next year compared to this year. The police are planning HUF 22 billion, the Immigration and Asylum Office HUF 727 billion, the disaster management system is planning some HUF 4 billion, the Counter-Terrorism Center is planning HUF 339 billion, and due to mass immigration, HUF 50 billion more is planned by BM. Ladies and gentlemen, You say it's a campaign budget. And we say that the next year's budget is about a better livelihood, better and more security for people. Ladies and gentlemen, The budget is a guarantee that tax reduction programmes will continue. Small business tax and health contributions are significantly reduced. The VAT on the Internet is falling from 18 percent to 5 percent next year. The VAT reduction continues, the VAT on pigs and milk is reduced from 27% to 5%. And it was painful to hear it yesterday in this House when opposition representatives ridiculed what it meant to reduce the VAT on restaurant services. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Nothing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Congressman Haughty, From nothing, you know, it means a lot more because there's an economic program here. There's more in every man's pocket. And maybe it's not a crime for families to afford to go to a restaurant. [[Zoltán Grimlock: They can't afford it, that's the problem.]] And when the families go to the restaurant, they'll pay less VAT. And you know, the people who work at the restaurant, the people who do the dishes, the people who cook, they have more in their pockets. And you, yeah, and you just told me, that doesn't mean anything to you. Compared to 2017, there will be 40 billion HUF more for road renovations. Are you saying all of this is nothing? And the development of the Modern Cities programme is HUF 150 billion. Along with next year's salary increase, teachers will receive 167 thousand forints, and their salary will increase by 40 percent with the salary increase. In law enforcement, 58,000 people are affected by the career model, resulting in a 45 percent increase in salaries. In defence, we're talking about a 40% wage increase for 18,000 people. In the case of a career model for state officials, wages increase by 30 percent, and wage increases in health care affect 95 thousand people. Ladies and gentlemen, Next year's budget will be a budget for employment, family support and security for all of us. [[16.10]] I repeat: VAT on products is falling, taxes are falling, wages are constantly rising. We can safely say that next year's budget will benefit everyone. This is not good for you, opposition representatives, and this is not good for Brussels. Ladies and gentlemen, When we talk about why Brussels would like to define the tax system in Hungary, why it would like to be included in the tax, you are constantly talking about foreign workers, but you do not acknowledge that foreign employers are constantly coming to Hungary. If we had allowed Brussels to get involved in this, for example, the company's income tax could not have fallen from 19 percent to 9 percent in Hungary, which is 15 percent in Germany. If it were left to you, and if we listened to Brussels, then these companies would go back to Germany, there they would develop the German economy. Among other things, this is what the attack in Brussels is about. Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on the budget and the attack in Brussels are about your view of Hungary as a competitor, and they regard the government programme as a competitor. Brussels also considers it so, because we are not in need of the IMF, we are not in need of bankers, we are not in need of loans, which is why Hungarians should be feared, and on the other hand because they fear that every other country will start following the Hungarian example. Ladies and gentlemen, When we talk about the need to protect the budget, to protect Hungary, to protect our common successes, we must protect it from you. The Hungarian budget must be protected from what you advertise on a billboard, when the opposition advertises on a billboard that we take it back, and then everyone takes on what they will take back. IMF loans? The family tax reduction? The raise? The tax cut? Or the VAT cuts? I'm guessing you're gonna have to take the campaign back from something. Ladies and gentlemen, After all these flash-forwards, please allow me to come to the point of what the numbers that are important to the workers in the sector mean in agriculture. As in previous years, the system of national aid is stable. On some lines, the resources of the grants financed from domestic funds increase significantly. In support of animal husbandry tasks, HUF 1.3 billion is available. The targets for the pig strategy are HUF 1.1 billion. In accordance with the government decision, nearly HUF 80 billion is available to support livestock production, vegetable production, fruit production and seed production. Within the framework of the programme, national aid amounts to HUF 26 billion, but the amount of animal welfare aid is increasing. Particular attention will be paid to supporting health measures. The amount of available support for the national bee-keeping programme will increase by HUF 105 million. In addition, we will continue the farm development programme with a sum of 1.2 billion. It has to be mentioned that the amount will continue with an increase in the amount of milk! The school fruit program, the program, therefore we spend nearly HUF 7 billion to provide more than 550 thousand children. More than a number of support lines, we have increased the support envelope for farmers up to the maximum authorised by the EU. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is quite obvious that the government continues to have a key objective of increasing the income-generating competitiveness of the agricultural sector, particularly the rural employment sector with high added value, and thereby improving the population-preservation power of the rural sector. Mr President, Dear House, Please allow me, for my part, to conclude with a Bible quote. Given that the sometimes demagogical approach in this debate, why it is important, why it is important, how much more important to devote budgetary resources to something else, please allow me to quote, in my opinion, the Gospel of John, which is precisely relevant, with the use of contemporary terms. Mary, therefore, taking out a pound of ointment from an expensive nard, anointed Jesus' feet, wiped his feet with his own hair; and the house was filled with the smell of anointing. / And one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon, who betrayed him, said, Why was this anointing not sold on three hundred denarii, and why was it not given to the poor? But he said this not because he would ever have a problem with the poor, but because he was a thief, and he had the purse, and what they had put in it, he would take away. / Jesus therefore said, "Leave him peace; he has kept this for the time of my funeral. / For the poor are always with you, and I am not always with you. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, In the spirit of this quote, I would like to give respect and a head start to everyone who has contributed to a stable budget on the part of the Hungarian economy, which I believe will make all people better next year. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-17-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member István Ikotity, LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-17-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I was completely influenced by the previous speaker. Poor people are always with you, but I'm not always with you? I hope the congressman can respond in two minutes. [[János Pócs: Quote!]] It was a quote from the Bible, the Gospel of John, and I know it well, thank you, I have a degree in theologians. Who are you thinking of who's always with us? That's quite mysterious. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Not the Pope!]] Do they view their government as the Messiah, who is always with us? What were you talking about? I'm completely amazed that you have such a sense of professionalism. Or perhaps you were thinking of yourself, Congressman János Pócs, that he is not always with us? I hope we'll get an answer to that, because it's quite shocking. I'd like to get down to my speech. Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to talk mainly about education and what kind of vision we are seeing, and what vision the current government is heading towards, and what it looks like from the budgetary side. We have a vision of the May Other in Politics, where there is so much sustainable development in society and in the economy, and knowledge is growing dynamically. We give room for innovation and creativity, we want a country where we give everyone the opportunity to develop their abilities and make their dreams come true. We want a country where it depends solely on the individual's abilities and diligence, or at least on what will happen to him. In the education system that LMP wants, it doesn't matter where anyone goes to school, because the school compensates for the disadvantages from home. No matter the family situation, no matter where the parents come from, it doesn't matter whether they're from a small village in Buda or a small village in Borsodi. We know that, unfortunately, Hungary is currently at the highest rate of how much further it will take from home, and that the school will make it even worse instead of compensating for it and reducing it. In the LMP education system, everyone has the same chance to go to college, college, no matter what high school they apply to. In our country, a vocational school can be a drummer in higher education, not a barrier to further education, because it gives you the same basic education, skills, language skills as a high school, at least it gives you the opportunity to do so if you choose this path. According to the LMP, one of the main sources of economic development and job growth is the quality knowledge, preparedness and momentum of young people leaving higher education. It should be noted that Hungary will not catch up with world-class higher education systems in the foreseeable future, but we are able to ensure that Hungarian higher education is internationally visible and competitive at European level, not just one or two sectors. It's the only way to stop young people from leaving. The school must not serve the government, but the future; it must be treated that way. In short, this is what the vision of LMP for education looks like. In this respect, we will also look at the budget plan for next year, and we will also make proposals to amend it. I would like to make one point: education is expensive, and good education is even more expensive, but if there is something to be done, it is not something to be sorry for. [[16.20]] Each HUF spent on education is paid several times, every HUF spent on education serves individual and social ascension. Fidesz-KDNP represents another vision, believes in a work-based society where they want to make a country competitive by keeping wages consciously low; they represent a vision where the Prime Minister here in Parliament imagines a knowledge-based society running around in a white cloak; he has demonstrated this. Fidesz-KDNP does not want to make the country better with high added value, high level of knowledge and quality, but they want to keep an eye on a demented level where cheap and vulnerable workers attract foreign multinationals and meet the needs of buddies and oligarchs. They are building an assembly plant-Hungary, where there is no need for knowledge, no need for further education. This is the purpose of debauchery of vocational training, restrictions on entry into high schools, closure of upper secondary schools in small towns, leaving the entire education system to its own. Less knowledge, lower salaries - this is what Fidesz offers Hungary. If we look at the educational area in next year's draft budget, maybe the best way to put it is to leave you alone. There is no hope that at any time during the Fidesz-KDNP there will be a turnaround or that human resources, as they are called, will be taken seriously that the best investment is knowledge, education. They abandoned the schools, the teachers and the parents, as did the students. In the years after 2010, hundreds of billions of forints were withdrawn from the sector, and only a part of the funds have been recovered since then. That's fine, Mr.Orbán, it's enough to spend little money on education. It is also very well supported by how it is handled in the ministerial structure, hidden from how it is handled in Parliament's committees, and hidden from education. Enough to keep the system from collapsing, to pay the gas bill, to have copier paper at school, the rest doesn't matter. It doesn't matter if the XXI. In the century, knowledge makes us competitive, doesn't have to spend a lot of money on it. Of course, we should give a little extra now, at least it seems to be possible to blame it, to say that the sources of education are expanding, but there is no need to invest heavily and increase resources, no need to strengthen schools, no need to give more money to teachers, academics, the employees of the background institutions and other staff, because knowledge and its expansion are not the essence of Viktor Orbán's vision. I must add that this is also a dead end because we know very well what society we are moving towards, what economy and what technology we are moving towards, and we know very well that what we want to build on, more precisely, on which you want to build, is the model of training skilled workers, offering as little job change as possible. This number is important: In Western Europe, a skilled worker transforms himself six times in his life, and in Hungary the opportunity is very limited, only once, it is still subject to age to do so. We know that we are going to a future where technology, robotisation, and, in practice, who is enrolling as a skilled worker today know that he will be able to continue his profession for a few years at most, until this multinational company goes to a place offering cheaper workers. Obviously, the reason why they are not leaving these days is because, even in Eastern countries, in China, the Hungarian minimum wage is exceeded. Excuse me, to clarify: Chinese average wage is over the Hungarian minimum wage, and even exceeds it by more than 10 percent. Let's see what that means in the language of numbers. Between 2010-16, the total budget for the education sector increased by 2.88 percent, which means HUF 45 billion in six years, but with a massive decline in the years after 2010, only a small surplus appeared in the last one or two years. This means a 12 percent real-value loss over six years, and a significant reduction in GDP-to-GDP ratio. If we look at how much Hungary's GDP has increased in these six years, then we can also calculate from this that there will be less and less money for education, not only in terms of inflation, but also in terms of GDP. More precisely, by that, or, in particular, by example, the cake is growing, but the wind remains the same, or is obviously falling in real terms. The amount spent on education is decreasing within all expenditures, and its value is significantly reduced due to the deterioration of money. It's not for nothing that the KLIK went bankrupt and the teachers went out on the street because of the very difficult, unbearable circumstances for many. Last year, about HUF 190 billion was actually added to the financing of the area, but it seems to have only served as a one-off stabilisation rather than the launch of a sustained expansion of resources. The figures were taken from the statement of the Hungarian Treasury and from the draft budget that I have just told you. The total budget of the educational area thus increased to HUF 1900 billion, which may be higher than in previous years, but lower expenditure in proportion to GDP than in 2013-2015. And here I would like to turn to next year's appropriation, which represents HUF 1988 billion, i.e. the total budget for education would increase by HUF 88 billion. Even Lőrinc Mészáros's wealth grows faster in a year, let alone faster, because we know that this wealth has increased six times over a year, but the harshness is that it has increased even more. Education increases by 88 billion, Lőrinc Mészáros's wealth increased by HUF 100 billion. So Lőrinc Mészáros earns more than the resources of the education increase, it shows the proportions well, shows the emphasis well, shows what is important to this government. It seems that it is more important for Viktor Orbán to serve the enrichment of Lőrinc Mészáros with large government orders than to give money to education. Fattening friends is more important than honoring educators and university educators. Education expenditure is far from keeping pace with the expansion of all other expenditures or the planned increase in GDP, so that the slice of educational cake will fall again within the total distributed cake. This year, every budget of HUF 10 and 40 forints spent on education will fall to just HUF 10 and 30 forints next year, and the GDP-related expenditure will fall to less than 5 per cent, to 4.93% according to the draft. Needless to say, this is deeply below the EU's 6 per cent educational target. If we are behind someone, our lag will only be even greater when we continue to spend little. If we ever want to bring this in, at some point, we're going to have to spend more exponentially on this. Deficit can only be brought in if we spend significantly more on education for years than on average spending in the EU. So, not only do we have to be below it, we don't have to catch up with it, but we have to spend a lot more time on it to catch up with it for many years. We should spend as much as those who are the best, who spend the most on education, if we want to be among the best, otherwise we can't work off the disadvantages. If we spend as much as we have before, then everything will remain this way: anyone who goes to a worse school will continue to go to a worse school, who wants to go to college, but who will not be prepared for this in the future. Of course, it's not all about money, but it's not possible to work miracles from lower funding. Better education costs more money. [[16.30]] LMP wants more and better education. That is why we have set the important goal of investing in education under all circumstances. We would spend 15-20 forints of every 100 HUF budget on education. We are currently spending 10 forints on this, 10 forints 30 forints. This should be increased by one and a half to two times, obviously stepwise, too suddenly this should not be done. This is the only way we have a chance to catch up with the Union, so that we can give every young person the opportunity to become what they are entitled to by their abilities and diligence. It's the only way to fix obstacles, so schools can be good in villages, as good as in the capital. Let us also look at what the LMP would do with additional expenditure, which would be urgently needed in education. These have, of course, been formulated and submitted in the form of proposals to amend them. Let's talk about wage increases first. In the field of education, educators got a raise of some kind, and the others didn't. The others received only a firefighter-like increase, but many of them did not even receive a real wage increase. Inexplicable injustice, inequality marks the wages of the educational-educational area given in kindergarten, school, university as well. First of all, despite the September increases in teacher wages, the original promise will be given in instalments between 2013 and 2017. There's some serious trouble with the starter's salary. It is simply nonsense that the wages of a first-time educator are only about HUF 15-25 thousand higher than the minimum wage for skilled workers and are significantly lower than the average wage for graduates. Everyone wants their kid to be taught by the best teachers. But how to attract and keep the best teachers on the field? How can you get young people to choose the teacher's field like this? When are we going to be honest about these problems? How are you going to deal with the lack of a teacher? Within ten years, 40 percent of teachers retire. LMP would correct the teacher's career model, giving special pay to beginners. The government treats and looks down on the staff of teachers: teachers' assistants, nannyes, school secretaries, labists, librarians, IT experts, I could tell you a long time ago, their earnings are humiliatingly low, they cannot support their families, due to the total slippage of the public employment pay table, two thirds of them are earning a salary equal to the minimum, and this year they have received an average supplement of 6-7 thousand forints, for the first time since 2008. That's not enough for anything. The LMP would start immediately with a 30 percent wage increase and then continue to increase their salary. Without teachers' staff, there is no quality education and education, so they have to be paid, above the minimum wage. The same is true for staff working in different background institutions, not in teaching, education and teaching. Consider an example. The Fidesz-KDNP government created the agoras in the previous cycle. These are important institutions that have been established mainly in county-righted cities and as a scientific centre XXI. They operate as centuries-old cultural houses. These were good ideas. They organize programs, spread scientific knowledge, open the doors of knowledge for young and older people alike. Yet the Fidesz-KDNP government forgot about the employees working here. Mostly we're talking about people with pedagogical education, but they're out of the teacher's career model, they're out of the pay increase. Not in one case, the minimum wage for skilled workers, the HUF 107,000, is not even worth their earnings. The government will continue to forget about them and keep them in a humiliating position, despite the fact that on several occasions we have spoken in their behalf here, within the walls of Parliament. We receive desperate letters from employees working here who report such a brutal situation that next year they can come up with a minimum wage for staff working in the entire agora, a gross HUF 180,000; a person who has 40 years of working relationship, a high rating, an extremely good teaching career, a lot of successful teachers, and an 18-year-old janitor in the institution. We don't underestimate the latter's work, but it's an incredible injustice and disproportionateness. Knowledge has to be paid. LMP would also significantly increase the salary of teachers working in agóra. If we raise wages in education, we have to raise everyone's wages, and no one is left out. If they don't do that, then they do nothing but what they usually do in their politics, that they create tension between people. They create tension in working communities, create tension in communities. I'm sure this tension is a good enemy image that distracts attention from others, but it's a breakdown of society, and it's a huge sin. We do not want to forget about teachers and researchers working in higher education. It's a typical example of a firefighter's salary increase. They haven't gotten a real raise in over ten years. The best leave the field, and the young don't want to be an instructor, a researcher, because the market companies are sucking them away. Only the most committed remain on the track, this situation needs to be changed as soon as possible, the promised 15+5+5 per cent wage increase below the age of three will improve their situation a little. We find it unfair and disproportionate that László Palkovics Secretary of State's heads of department earn more than a university assistant or professor. Why don't you adjust the salaries of the instructors to the ministry's salaries? Wouldn't that be fair? LMP would pay special attention to academics and researchers at universities, colleges. They should also be given a continuous, predictable career model. Young researchers would be supported with a specific programme, and the resources of MTA for this purpose would be significantly increased. The LMP also deals with areas beyond wage increases within the framework of a number of amending proposals. We'd like to return the abstract sources of public education. In addition to the teacher's wage increase, the area receives little extra funding, and at the annual level 200 billion HUF is missing for normal operation. We saw how the KLIK went bankrupt recently. We'd like to make up for the resources of higher education in rural areas. Rural colleges are of particular importance to LMP, as a college can stop the migration of young people, make it the economic engine of the settlement and its region and its scientific and cultural centre. College is a bastion of the countryside if it receives adequate development resources. We, too, would increase the resources of higher education by one and a half to two times in the medium term. We'd cancel tuition in higher education. But we wouldn't forget to put vocational training in order. This has an important budgetary need, since the number of training years has been reduced from four to three years, and public knowledge has been removed from education. Vocational training is particularly true of the need for more and more quality training, and it costs money. Within the framework of the national adult education programme, we would provide everyone, regardless of age or qualifications, with the opportunity to choose a profession and learn a new profession. We would pay particular attention to disadvantaged areas, we would launch the priority education districts programme, in which we would provide increased wage allowances for teachers teaching in the small area. Their work must be recognised with a much greater bonus than the current one, since those who work under the most difficult conditions and do effective work must earn more, so it is fair. This is where the development and expansion of the early development and pedagogical network is linked. Fidesz-KDNP's solution is that if there are not enough medical teachers, then we should reduce the employment criteria, also be a medical educator who has not been. The government has left the schools badly, and that needs to be changed. LMP wants to eliminate segregation, first we need to assess segregation. [[16.40]] National Forest School Programme [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We'd like to start - and I'll talk about culture in the next section. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-17-86	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-17-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I agree with Mr István Ikotity's first sentence, which concerned that the performance of the individual is fundamentally determined by the education system, but it is no longer necessary to assess the situation and to assess the situation. The congressman said that the education system was abandoned, that it was a source of resources, and that it creates unworthy conditions in the education system. If you'll excuse me, I'll start by saying what we agree on. We agree that it is important both for the individual and for an economy that people are well-trained, because the basis for individual justice and the basis for a well-functioning economy is that there is a qualified workforce. From this very point of view, I see that the government has made changes with regard to the possibility of individualisation and the availability of skilled labour for the economy. The measures will start with the introduction of compulsory kindergarten participation. This is the first step, and I am pleased that the Member agrees with the positive part of this, at least I see from his reaction. After kindergarten, the second step is public education. In order to create equal opportunities for public education, it was necessary to ensure that public education institutions in different areas, which are maintained by different authorities in different material situations, were integrated - this was the Klebelsberg Centre - which, therefore, ensures that either we talk about public education in Rose Hill or we talk about education in a village in Szabolcs County, that any difference in the maintenance financial background does not make a difference in the quality of training, since if there is a state reservation, there are equal opportunities. In the field of public education, in recent years, we have talked a lot about the fact that, through the transformation of the institutional system, the renewal of the vocational training system and dual training, not only the various elements of the education system have been highlighted, but also the training that will provide the best opportunities for future employment. And I can go on, in the field of higher education, transforming the higher education system, adapting it to the needs of the real economy, and I think it was once again a series of measures aimed at not only being able to graduate from a university, but also leaving the education system, and then finding work where they can receive a salary corresponding to their qualifications. I therefore believe that the transformation of the education system has been in the right direction to ensure that both individuals have the opportunity to make progress and the possibility of a positive change in terms of the country's economy. The Member said that there was a withdrawal of funds from the system, and then, if you allow me to do so, I feel that, in part, he said that a wage increase was made both in public education and in higher education. At public education, there was a substantial wage increase in five stages between 2013 and 2017, not only for teachers, but also for workers who work in educating and educating. The Member mentioned that there were also three stages of wage increases in the field of higher education - I do not consider this to be possible, but rather a planned wage increase according to the rate of announcement, the third leg of which, the third five percentage points increase, is seen in the draft budget law of 2018. In 16 there was a 15 percent increase in wages, then a 5 percent increase in 17 and a further 5 percentage points increase in 18 if the Honourable Parliament accepts the Government's proposal. I note in parentheses that, on the basis of compound interest, this is not a 25 percent increase, but a higher wage increase. Not only is the wages of those working in the education system increased, but also the funding of the institution system increased. So, to be honest, it is difficult to interpret the word "outsourcing". The Member mentioned that last year more than HUF 100 billion were added to the budget for running the institutional system over wage increases. This goes on in the draft budget law for 2018, and in addition, the surplus from 2017 to 18, as the Member said, represents an educational expenditure above HUF 80 billion. So there are two branches in terms of the operation of the institutional system and wages, where expenditure increases. And if you look at the previous years, then again, based on the budgetary accounting data, I don't see the withdrawal that I hear from the opposition over and over again. There is one thing that the Member has drawn attention to, namely that the cake is growing. This, because the cake is growing, means that the economy is expanding, and, if the Member allows it, this statement, which shows that the Hungarian economy is constantly expanding, in my opinion, is in contradiction with the Member's statement that economic policy is based on cheap, vulnerable workers, is not a sustainable economic policy. If economic policy were not sustainable, we would not be able to talk about GDP expansions, not just us, but also - I always say - domestic and international organisations. I'd like to move on to the economics. One more link: the acquisition of a second qualification has become free, and this is also a new step, which, I think, affects in the direction that the Member also considers important. But the point is: here was an important statement about the model of economic policy, namely, the Member said that the education system is abandoned by the state, it is not intended to have a skilled workforce, and otherwise the government imagines the country's operation with cheap, vulnerable workers. Mr President, if that were the case, the Government would not have initiated the agreement with which representatives of employers' and employees' sides agreed, which includes the fact that after 1990 the highest minimum wage or minimum wage increase for skilled workers could be achieved. We have often said: from January of this year, the minimum wage increases by 15%, the minimum wage or minimum wage increases by 25 percent, followed by an increase of 8 and 12 percent in 2018 in terms of the minimum wage and the minimum wage for skilled workers. I repeat: if the government's aim were to provide cheap labour, it would not have proposed these measures and would not have prepared next year's draft budget law accordingly. The direction, I think, is important that, in addition to raising wages, we also need to improve productivity. So the labour force, which is currently supporting the growth of the Hungarian economy, shows not only an increasing number of people in employment, so not only the number of people in employment is increasing, but also real wages have also increased, this has been an increase exceeding the growth of the economy in the last year, and, of course, in addition to the increase in employment and real wages, it is important that this also improves labour productivity. I think that this minimum wage and minimum wage is an opportunity to achieve more productive, more efficient work in Hungary, and, in addition to wage increases, yes, we also need to take steps towards productivity and efficiency gains. The State has also adapted its support system accordingly. If the honourable Members of Parliament look at state aid, in many cases they see that the condition for granting state aid is not only to increase the number of workers, but to improve productivity. Yes, in many cases we now face the fact that there are not enough skilled workers, and therefore the aim is to achieve higher productivity and higher emissions with the existing workforce. We have adapted the State aid system to this, and this system is reflected in next year's draft budget law. I therefore repeat: by stating that the availability of a qualified person, a skilled workforce, is essential for both the individual and the economy, I agree that to this end the government has taken a number of measures both for the education system and for other measures in economic policy, and these steps are reflected in next year's draft budget law. Therefore, if we consider it important to have a qualified workforce available for the Hungarian economy in 2018, I strongly recommend supporting the submitted bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.50]]
u2017-05-17-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with two minutes' speeches. I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group.
u2017-05-17-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Imre Vejkey's speech moved me to respond to this. I think my father told me something like this when he said that on May 1st in the 1950s, similar speeches had to be heard. I thought at last week's immunity committee meeting, the style that looked more like, say, a party secretary, was such a one-time slip, but apparently it wasn't. Dear fellow Member, The party secretary of a colhoz may have allowed this to happen in 72, but not in 73. I'm pretty sure of that. [[Happy István: You are in that party!]] Or maybe the list setting up and the candidacy in the Fidesz has started, and there's such an overzealous desire for proof. I think that everyone from the Roman emperors to today has been thinking about the creation of a united Europe, if they are thinking on a historic scale. But before you are a communist, liberálbolshevik... - I will put in parentheses that you have followed in the footsteps of a lot of Hungarian politicians who do not have good memories, such as István Csurka, who brought this concept into Hungary. [[Happy István's intervention.]] He followed in his footsteps. Well, read Robert Schuman. What has the European Union come to? What was he talking about on May 9th, 1950? Where's order and justice and peace? Where's prosperity? Did they take Hungary back? I'll tell you who: Lőrinc Mészáros, István Garancsi, Zoltán Spéder, Lajos Simicska, owners behind MET, owners of companies selling settlement bonds. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we didn't teach the Golem to walk, that was you! [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] They were you, they'll explain that.
u2017-05-17-90	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman János Pócs, Fidesz Group.
u2017-05-17-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since István Ikotity asked me to answer some of his questions, I will. First of all, honourable Member, I find it extremely sad that if you have a theological degree and you were the Member who was the best against the day off on Friday. I think you should be ashamed of yourself at home. [[István Ikotity constantly intervenes.]] As it is, honourable Member, that it is sad that you are laughing with a theological degree at a literal Bible quote. Of course, if you have questions, I'll answer them. [[István Ikotity constantly intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] One of your questions is who I was thinking of when I refer to the poor. Honourable Congressman, The Quote Parallel [[István Ikotity intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] I was thinking of Judas, the Judas who stole from the poor and referred to the poor. Such was Gábor Simon, who, with hundreds of millions of dollars stolen from the poor, was recruiting for a hunger march. He was one of the Judases. The second message of the Gospel is a response to the demagogue that we've heard all day long, so that we don't spend the budget on this or that, but Judas says, what they can steal later, you can steal, given the 300 dinars analogy. [[István Ikotity intervenes.]] Honourable Congressman, The third message to your question is who I understood in the parallel of the quote to Jesus. I'll tell you. The people you hurt here today. The people involved in the wage increase, the people involved in the tax cuts, the doctors working in health care, the paramedics, the police, the teachers, the soldiers, the state officials, the farmers, the farmers, the entrepreneurs. [[István Ikotity leaving the Chamber: You are pathetic!]] That's what the budget was about, which you told us not to give to them, but to someone else. [[The intervention of Zoltán Haughty.]] That is what the Bible quote was about, dear Congressman Haughty, I do not think it should have been mocked, especially by those who are full of Judaism. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP, including Zoltán Gőgös: Shame on you!]] Because they were on the side of the poor once, and they stole the poor. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What are you saying, monkey?]] Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-17-92	Congressman Haughty, you have the opportunity to press a button. [[Zoltán Grimlock: This bullshit?]] Feel free to speak up. We'll get back to work. Dear Parliament, [[Noise on both sides. Zoltán Gőgös towards János Pócs: Go home, look at the melons, you'll get better.]] Dear Parliament, Congressman Haughty! Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, KDNP, in a two-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-17-93	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I pressed a two-minute button for involvement. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Our fellow MSZP Member quoted Schuman first. [[Dr. László Kács: No. I didn't quote, I didn't quote.]] Right, the founding fathers, Schuman, Adenauer, De Gasperi, if we look at what consideration and on what ideological basis the Coal and Steel Community was established, which then evolved into a European Union, we must say that it was established on a Christian basis. It was created on the basis of Christian values, and this has been the basis of every action it has taken. What has become of the Christian-based Coal and Steel Community, the predecessor of the European Union, has actually been achieved by you. [[But you want your money, don't you?]] And the fact that one is forced to classify those who are libertarians as libertarians is not my fault, but their fault. And the other is, he called a meeting of the immunity committee to say that he thought what happened on the immunity committee was extremely strange. I'm the chairman of the immunity committee, so it's obvious that I was at the meeting, and I was in charge of the meeting. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You read the verdict.]] Under the relevant provisions of the Parliamentary Act, when disciplinary proceedings are being conducted, representatives affected by disciplinary action must be heard. That's what happened at the disciplinary committee meeting. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You read the verdict.]] They could say, supplement their appeals, their appeals. This happened. So I don't understand what your problem is with exercising their legal rights. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Interviews from the lines of the MSZP, including Zoltán Gőgös: The law is dictated. Read it back.]]
u2017-05-17-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. My fellow Members, I think that if we start yelling at each other, it will not end well. Everyone has the opportunity to press a button and answer like a cultural man. Thank you very much for your understanding. Ladies and gentlemen, We'll get back to work. As no one has applied for another two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Riz, Member of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-05-17-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I hope that I will not provoke a theological-type debate with what I have to say, and perhaps the yelling will be less, because I would like to share with you some thoughts about a sector that has been becoming more and more decisive for the Hungarian economy for some time now: tourism and tourism. In recent years, we can see how Hungary has become the focus of visitors and how domestic tourism has evolved over the years with rising indicators, how it contributes to the development of domestic GDP: at the moment, the income generated by this is more than 10 percent. In 17 there were extraordinary resources already available compared to the previous ones, and the budget of 18 would like to further strengthen this sector. It is clear that, besides not only Budapest, but also major destinations beyond Budapest, small rural settlements and cities are becoming increasingly frequented and increasingly targeted by domestic tourism, which may not have received so many guests before. [[Continuous noise in the lines of the MSZP.]] I believe that there is another important aspect of the area that the Hungarian government has been pursuing for years. It helps families with a tax discount, helps them by reducing their costs, and helps them with countless tools to boost domestic tourism, use of accommodation, use of hospitality, and contribute to everything that expands the range of domestic attractions and attractions. I would like to tell you a few very important indicators, which may give you a little insight into why this priority area is important and why it is a priority area in our budget. [[Continuous noise in the lines of the MSZP.]] [[17.00]] Mr President, my fellow socialists will either continue the seminar outside or finish it, because it bothers me. Maybe not you. In the EU budget period 2007-13, some 1239 tourist projects received more than HUF 336 billion, which, together with its attractions, moved nearly HUF 500 billion into the Hungarian tourism type investment circle. In the 2020 cycle, the total amount of HUF 500 billion is only domestic and the additional EU resource, which will obviously result in a significantly higher amount of domestic tourism development in two areas. One is primarily the performance of tourism tasks and the other is attractions and expansion of investment. There are three priority areas that the government deals with separately, partly complemented by EU and partly by domestic sources. One of these is the Balaton programme, which, together with HUF 365 billion of EU and domestic funds, wants to make a big move forward, further strengthen the attractiveness of all that has already made it popular. Nearly 570 projects will be launched at Lake Balaton from HUF 17 billion, which will help develop European-class attractions, accommodations and catering facilities in several locations. The other important area is the 60 billion HUF available in the Sopron-Fertő tourist area, of which some 39 billion Hungarian budget and the rest are development from EU funds, strengthening the Castle District of Sopron, the Levers and the shores of Lake Fertő. The tourism cooperation between Tokaj-Hegyalja, the Upper Tisza and Nyírség receives HUF 101 billion, nearly half of which is a domestic source. The longest glass bridge in the world, about 700 metres long between Szárhegy and Várhegy, can be built in Sátoraljaújhely, which will renew the city centre of Tokaj, the castle of Kisvárda and the Castle Bath. The government imagines the development of Hungarian tourism on several legs, in addition to EU funds. The legs are as follows. One is the tourist destination, which directly finances the implementation of the projects and programmes through the Hungarian Tourism Agency, depending on the annual budget. The other source is tourist tax, which is site specific, as regional authorities or local authorities can determine it themselves, but it contributes to the expansion of attractions by budgeting or to the expansion of accommodation and catering facilities, which are of particular importance in that area. However, as an equally important third leg, the programme of the Modern Cities, which aims to develop cities with county rights, including in terms of tourism, mainly through attractions, but also through investments that make the infrastructure and the circle that improves the comfort of the visitor more complete. In 2010 the tourism target was around HUF 7.6 billion, which was provided directly by the budget. In 2017, it was much bigger than before, since it amounted to HUF 10.9 billion from Hungary, with an additional HUF 10 billion supported by external sources.In 2018 the tourist destination and the related tourist development target will continue to grow, complementing HUF 12 billion with HUF 25 billion, so this package will be available together in the next year, partly directly and partly indirectly for tourism operators. The development of tourism is supported by a change in tax legislation, which sets the rate of the tourism development contribution at 4%, and the source of this is the revenue from catering in the dining area, food and locally prepared non-alcoholic beverages. The revenue from the contribution shall be the revenue from the central budget, the corresponding amount being allocated to the tourism development tasks defined in the separate legislation through the tourism target of the central budget. The addition or imposition of the tourist tax, as I said, is location-specific, but in 2017 it meant that the government added the same amount to every 1 HUF revenue, and this meant about HUF 10.5 billion in 17 revenues. The program "Modern Cities" is the third underfoot we mentioned. This provides HUF 2336 billion for the affected settlements. This will amount to HUF 135 billion in development value, which will be invested in tourism in the next period by the participants of the programme of modern cities. The domestic resource will complement EU funds, taking into account, of course, compliance with the title. The government's undisclosed goal is to contribute to territorial balance by further increasing the competitiveness of tourism, since the regions that are more and more disadvantaged, if they have tourist attractions or an environment that is in itself natural beauty, attraction, sighting, can now be connected to the large national cycle that is becoming increasingly complete in Hungary. In March, the grants aimed at the quality and family-friendly development of the Balaton beaches were announced, with HUF 1.8 billion, of which 55 municipal beaches will be renewed in the near future. I would also like to mention that, in the previous period, while this area has received grants from a title, regional operational programmes, it will be implemented in the future, i.e. in this programming period with the help of four operational programmes, from the operational programme for economic and innovation, rural development, the territorial operational programme and the competitive Central Hungary, with the dedicated resources available for this area. Based on the operational programmes adopted in February 2014, this is about HUF 304 billion of EU funds available in the various OPs. I would also like to get to Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County a little bit, all the more, because one of the important results of the 2007-13 period was that the most funding, some HUF 33 billion, was awarded to Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County. Then came Hajdú-Bihar, and then followed Baranya County, with nearly this magnitude, which confirms that we are talking about one or more areas of the country where tourism has contributed to overcoming the disadvantages. This contributed to my home town, Ozd, where in recent years the state, the background institution of the state and the city of Ozd have made nearly HUF 5 billion in development, where two buildings, unfortunately condemned to death from a metallurgical point of view - which have been classified as industrial history and protected by the government - have been restored and filled with cultural and IT content with the help of the Hungarian National Digital Archive. Thus, the city of Ozd was able to join the large cycle of the national park in Bükk-Aggtelek, from which perhaps in the future the city will be able to play its part even more equally, since one of the undisclosed intentions of the regionals is to try to take the step with the natural features and now increasingly existing tourist attractions of those parts of the country that have taken the step earlier and which are major destinations. The budget supports the area, as I have said, in particular, which is why I propose to you that the budget be adopted only because of these items. And for the rest of you, I wish that in the temperate tone that this topic has triggered, you would try to continue with the polemia. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-05-17-96	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2017-05-17-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, There is so much that has been said in the debate and it is worth responding to, because we really believe that this budget is a budget for injustice and corruption, but what has been said in the debate has actually strengthened us in this. We have heard today that the European Union will set energy prices. My problem is that the fellow Member who said that actually believes that, and he doesn't, is simply wrong. There is an energy agency in Hungary. The debate between the Government and Brussels and the governance of the European Union on whether this should be established in a decision or regulation. Besides, there is also a debate between the Fidesz lead speakers on this issue, as a year apart, the Fidesz lead speaker said that Brussels does not attack the results of the Hungarian overhead reduction, and then a year later they said that, yes, it is attacking it, and that is why it is necessary to re-establish the price of tailored priced energy by regulation. This is about whether you can attack him in a proper court of law or you can't attack him in a proper court of law. [[17.10]] I am only saying this because if a Member, in any smearful tone, says such things in this House, then this is about him not knowing what he is talking about quite simply. We have also heard that the bank tax that hit the country and, of course, the people of the country, the taxpayers. Ladies, gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, No bankers today? It's planned for the budget. Do you know how to get immunity from bank tax? By supporting visual sports, we can figure out how football will probably have to be supported by banks. Then you'll be free from the bank tax, and you can write that down from the bank tax fund. It's an injustice. We believe that it is not a visual sport that should be promoted, but, let us say, that the engines of the Hungarian economy should be started, and we will do justice by saying that it will be possible to write down these amounts from the bank tax base if lending is strengthened by a bank, not by visual sports. We have heard that the funds are stable, economic growth is significant, international credit rating agencies recommend it for investment, so nicely said that Hungary was not otherwise rated. We have also heard from here that the Hungarian budget can finally be financed without loans, and then a little narrowed down without IMF credit. I'm telling you what credit we have. We already have Russian credit, we'll have Chinese. We read that Hungary will join the Silk Road. It is probably worth investing in Hungary's long-term plans for a 7,000-year-old empire for 2 to 2.5 thousand years, because otherwise the government would not decide otherwise, unless they saw corruption in it, that it would be possible to spend a lot of money again, and then it would end up being Lőrinc Mészáros who would carry out these works. Ladies and gentlemen, I also have to say that so far 400-500 billion HUF of settlement bonds have been sold, and they have been sold by companies with which the Hungarian state could not be related, because offshore companies, most of them offshore companies. This means that we don't know anything about them; one thing we know for sure about them is that they don't pay taxes in Hungary. They've skimmed the benefits of this. A fifth of it was taken to this store. [[Dr. István Józsa: All of it!]] According to the press calculations, 100-130 billion forints, which could have belonged to Hungarians, these companies skimmed them, and we will have to start repaying the rest in January next year, because Hungary started selling the settlement bonds, the five-year settlement bonds. We say many times that every time a budget is a clear choice of value, if I want to put it in a much clearer way: where the money goes, the important thing is for the government. If that is the case now, then I think that this will need to be explained in the next section, because if I buy a narrower section, which is health care, and then I buy a wider section, which is the EMMI budget, then we will see that in fact the ministry of man has put together a fairly unfair budget. Then how much corruption there will be in this, it will be obvious later, but first let's look at health care. We have heard, and I tell you honestly, we were even happy to announce that the Hungarian Hospital Association XXIX. At the convention, Mr Secretary of State said that the health budget will increase by some HUF 150-200 billion. However, what we see now is that, compared to 2017 it is a surplus of 102 billion, and we also need to see that, while you are not giving any more money for health care, you are now planning the underfunded budget that we have met every year. So far, by the end of the year, the health sector has accumulated 100-110, sometimes even more billion forints of debt. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that means that you financed Hungarian health care with small businesses, owed to Hungarian entrepreneurs and SMEs. They were suppliers' debts. A very small percentage of these were, by the way, members of the public sector. This is supported by the detection of MACS, by the way. 78 percent of the debt was in the EMMI. Now they've found the hole in the spoon, and this 100 billion forint, after they can't change the system, this 100 billion forint is planned. Our position is that much more should be done, because it does not make it more attractive for people to choose health care financed by public funding, because anyone who can do it today does not go to public health because of the very things that are there. We see that, as long as there is a bed in a hospital in Hungary that has a bed from the bottom plywood rather than a normal bed, we believe that no prestige investment should be launched. Based on researchers' measurements, we know that 40 percent in 2014 and 60 percent in 2017, the number of Hungarian residents who go to private health rather than to public health is simply the reason for this. What we see is that you say you're giving more money to health care, but the source of inpatient care will not increase, it will decrease by 2.2 billion. This will be distributed to the source of additional development, inpatient and inpatient care, to the excess of high-value drug financing, which will be HUF 5 billion, to the excess of special financing tasks, which will amount to HUF 5 billion and a total of HUF 12 billion. So, in fact, there's not necessarily going to be more money than inpatient care here. What we always bring up on this issue is a matter of National Rescue Service. What we see is that they are not properly appreciated, and at least if we could believe the government and we didn't have much more experience than we have left, if the kind of wage increase that you are now introducing were to be implemented, we would see that this would be a HUF 180 billion surplus in 2019. I believe that there will be no opportunities for this, so at least there is doubt that you will want to go through with this with the 7800 paramedics who provide 1 million 100,000 patients, including 45,000 children. So it would be worth taking this seriously, not living for tomorrow and doing an unfair but at least sound budget in the elections in this respect. Let's look at the Ministry of Human Resources, because I think that this is one of the most important issues, so that we can decide what is important to the government and what is not important to the government. There is a chapter part of the funding that is part of the EMMI, where we see how it supports non-budgetary bodies that are sometimes better owners of a case than the state itself. Moreover, the Hungarian State rightly recognizes and supports certain organisations. I would like to give you a number or two: the Hungarian Anti-Crab League will receive HUF 30 million if the draft is accepted. The Hungarian Paediatric Network will receive HUF 20 million, you know, they are the ones who deal with cancer children. The ILCO Association - also an association of a group of diseases - is HUF 30 million, the National Association of Cancer Patients 20 million, the National Association of Deafs and Hearers 186 million. To tell you more: all associations of disabled people across the country will receive HUF 181 million and the Red Cross will receive HUF 100 million. And now you will see that this is not the important thing for this government. In the same chapter, support for tasks related to the implementation of sports development concepts is HUF 12 billion 279 million 400 thousand. In the same chapter, the operating support of 6 Budapest football clubs is HUF 3 billion 440 million; let me recall the 30 million HUF of the Hungarian Anti-Crab League. 3.4 billion forints! [[17.20]] Ladies and Gentlemen, The academic design of national sports associations - this means anything, because they suffered even when they had to write the justification - will receive HUF 7 billion. I also quote the HUF 20 billion of the National Association of Cancer Patients We believe that this value choice needs to be changed, because this is unfair to Hungarians. We do justice by raising the amount of resources to be spent on health by HUF 265 billion. We have tabled this proposal and we hope that you will not vote in favour of injustice and corruption, but will support our proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-17-98	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-17-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In the previous comment, Mr President, he said that the budget also reflects a value choice. I totally agree with that. Next year's budget focuses on work, family and security. I think that this value choice is not only in the 2018 budget but also in the previous years, which is why we can talk about the fact that there are more people working today than a few years ago, so we can talk about the fact that real incomes have increased substantially in all counties, in all areas, so we can talk about the fact that support for families is very high in international comparison, so we can talk about the fact that in next year's budget only family benefits will amount to more than HUF 300 billion, and that is why we can talk about the fact that, in addition to work and family, security will also have a prominent role in next year's budget law proposal. You say that this proposal is a budget of injustice and corruption, but you cannot support it with concrete measures and specific numbers. Congressman, we talked about corruption earlier. When we talk about metro 4 cases, I can interpret the relationship between corruption and the budget, because if investigations are closed and repayments are made to Brussels, then each repayment will affect the budget balance. But I would stress that the indicators that you refer to in relation to the budget are not, in my view, tangible in the budget proposal, in the tax measures. Mr Cook mentioned a number of items where, in his view, government claims could be contested. One of these questions was whether or not we had a debate with the European Commission on the issue of regulatory prices, the reduction of energy prices. Yes, we are debating the issue of setting public prices with the European Commission. The government wants to stick to keeping low overhead. I have a statistic here that clearly shows how prices expressed in euro/kilowattore units have evolved compared to 2010. In 2010 the euro/kilowattóra price was 0.17 in Hungary, which went down to 0.11; I stress from 0.17 to 0.11. Now the level in the euro area is 0.22 in the Czech Republic 0.14, in Germany about 0.3, in France 0.17, in Romania approximately 0.13, in Slovakia 0.14. I do not want to bore the Honourable Parliament with numbers, my statement is that the reduction of the rent in which we are debating with the European Commission has resulted in energy prices being much cheaper now, not only compared to 2010, but also in an international comparison. I believe that these low prices were also needed in order for the consumer power of the population to increase, and that economic growth that we have seen in recent years and on which we are building in 2018 should remain. This is why it is important that, in terms of economic growth and budget figures, one element of this economic policy is that the reduction of the overhead is maintained in 2018. With regard to loans, I would just like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that, in my opinion, there is a substantial difference between an IMF or a European Commission loan and, where appropriate, a Russian loan linked to a Paks investment. Why, Congressman? Because Hungary has received loans from the IMF as a so-called partner country. This was not only given to the country at so-called interest rates, but also under serious conditions. Similarly, the credit from the European Commission was also conditional credit, i.e. the scope of economic policy was significantly limited by those organisations. There was no sovereign economic policy. Everyone who knows these loans and knows the conditions under which the countries receive them knows that the agreement includes not only the interest rate, but also the amount to be paid, which economic policy measures the lender expects to take. In this respect, there is a substantial difference between previous loans and current market-like financing, with only return on investment for market financing by the investor. Here the welcome thing is that the yield environment that we can now count on is far better than it was several years ago. The state's net interest expenditure on GDP is well below 3 per cent, while it was well above 4 per cent five to six years ago. The settlement policy was also mentioned by the congressman. I think it is a positive thing that today Hungarian public finances and the Hungarian economy are in a position to establish a settlement policy, which was, by the way, a way of financing that has been used by several EU countries, but I stress that this financing technique is no longer needed today. As regards the EMMI chapter of the draft budget law for 2018, and in the area of health, the numbers mentioned by the Member can be debated. If I have written it right, Congressman has mentioned that there is a HUF 12 billion in development. Only the HUF 26 billion surplus is included in next year's draft budget law in the framework of the Efficient Budapest, compared to the original figure in 2017, and there are also additional investment items. There's been a lot of talk about health care. I always suggest that we look at the detailed figures of the bill submitted and compare it with the figures of 2017 and previous years. I see in this that health expenditure is increasing, and I see that not only wages are rising, but also the resources available to finance the institutional system. I agree with the Member that, of course, we still have a job to do, and I do not say that everything is perfect and everything works well. There's no doubt about it. But my claim is that additional resources were available in proportion to the performance of the economy, I would add, for wage increases already in 2012 and 2013, and in international comparison, health expenditure per capita was much better than that of Italy or other southern countries. I would also like to mention specifics if you mentioned wages: in addition to the 2012-13 measures, the wage development of nurses was achieved at an average level of 26,5 per cent from 1 September 2016, with a further increase of 12 per cent from 1 November 2017, as of 1 November 2018 according to the proposal submitted, 8 per cent and 8 per cent from 1 November 2019. The basic salary of specialists and pharmacists increased by HUF 107 thousand gross from 1 September 2016 and by another HUF 100 thousand gross from 1 November 2017. As far as paramedics are concerned, we also see new sources of supply in the next year's budget, and in addition to that, the paramedics are subject to the above mentioned wage increases, and this is even advanced by an additional 10 percentage points increase, according to the bill submitted. So doctors and nurses working in ambulances also benefit from wage increases. On this basis, I suggest that the 2018 budget proposal should be evaluated in a different way. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-17-100	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Firtl Mátyás, KDNP Group. Here you go. [[17 .30]]
u2017-05-17-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Secretary of State for having answered in substance to the Commissioner before me, but I would also like to mention one point from their point of view. When comparing loans, Mr Secretary of State referred to it. Well, did they take away 13 months in a good mood? No! That's because the IMF demanded it. The main purpose of a political party is to give. They had to take it because, yes, they were granted loans with these conditions. So much for the borrowing gap, but I do not want to deal with it more deeply. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important to note first of all about the draft budget for 2018, the fact that for the third time the government has submitted its proposal for adoption before the summer break for the next year's budget, indicates the government's responsibility for planning and managing the comprehensive process in which it is essential that the state's revenue can be planned efficiently in time, in full compliance with, inter alia, expenditure on social care, health care, culture, education, defence, order and legal certainty, so as to ensure both functioning and development. At the same time, a predictable and predictable economic environment is essential for economic operators, for the entrepreneurial sector, which represents a significant proportion of Hungarian employers, but also for large system operators, municipalities and, of course, for all Hungarian families. The presentation and adoption of the budget during the spring session is based on, and is also due to, successful economic policy, competitiveness and employment effectiveness since 2010, which shows that the country is on track when unemployment is currently one of the lowest in Europe, with continued improvement in economic indicators. In addition to this important element of time, next year's budget, as submitted by the previous Orbán governments, is characterised by predictability and stability, together with developments taking place while the government debt is constantly falling. In general, it can also be said that in 2018 there will be more money for all sectors, health, social territory, education, culture, sport, families, security than in previous years. Ladies and gentlemen, It has already been said in this debate, but it is important to emphasise once again that the budget for 2018 is the budget of people from work. Instead of a welfare-based society, strengthening a work-based society has brought about a fundamental change of perspective that has made a significant contribution to strengthening the economy. This is important because the economy is the engine of development, which creates the resources needed for other sectors. In fact, the economy is stable and growing. A stable economy is the strong foundation for the 2018 budget, and the Hungarian economy has been growing steadily for six years in 2018, with economic growth exceeding the EU average. [[Dr. István Józsa: Except 2012.]] In addition, we have preserved the stability of public finances, and the reduction in public debt continues. In 2018, there will be 4.3 percent economic growth, as has already been said, with a 2.4 percent deficit target, and, of course, we also see inflation, which we estimate to be 3 percent. One of the most important strengths of the 2018 budget is that, compared to 2017, Honourable Mr.Szakács, he has HUF 180 billion more in health care, HUF 81 billion more in education, and HUF 15 billion more in home creation. In fact, there is 30 billion forints more for road development, simple road development, non-road development. I had to tell you this because repetition is the mother of knowledge, so that they know that these numbers are in the budget. Our successful economic policy gives us the opportunity to continue raising the minimum wage and the minimum wage for skilled workers in 2018, and to increase the family tax relief for two children, to reduce the VAT on restaurant services, the Internet and the VAT on fish meat to 5 percent. Taxes on labour will also be reduced and we will approach full employment. Ladies and gentlemen, With the budget of 2018, we will take another decisive step towards achieving full employment. The already mentioned labour-centred approach achieves its objective of giving the individual a sense, purpose, self-esteem, an example to the community, creating and strengthening the sense of community responsibility and responsibility for public burdens, but also having an impact on the economic area, improving employment indicators, while generally having a positive impact on tax and wage policies. The results have been achieved by joint efforts in the area of economic recovery in the interest of the Hungarian people. Compared to 2010, as has already been said, and this is a fact, there are 700 thousand more people working, the vast majority of which are market jobs. We'd like to reach full employment. In addition to job creation, we also consider it important that all Hungarians are worth working for. Therefore, wage-raising programmes will continue in the public sector in 2018, with a further reduction in labour taxation in the market sector allowing for further wage increases. The minimum wage increase continues, as has already been said, but it must be stressed once again, after 15 percent increase, the minimum wage increases by an additional 8 percent in 18 percent. After 25 percent this year, the minimum wage for skilled workers increases by another 12 percent. That is why we can say that the 2018 budget is the budget of people from work, the budget of work, which creates the possibility for all Hungarians to take a step forward. Dear House, It is a message that the main policy measures of the draft budget law include the continuation of the VAT reduction, the strengthening of support for families, support for access to home, support for workers, the promotion of employment, the protection of the value of pensions, the continuation of career and wage-raising programmes, the reduction of taxes and, in particular, the tax burden for entrepreneurs, increasing, stable public finances, support for investments from domestic budgetary resources in addition to sustainable economic growth, effective use of EU funds, and further strengthening of public order and public security; it is mentioned in the budget, honourable Members. Dear House, Hungary is growing, which means strong communities and provides support for other families. So family still comes first. The government's aim is to make Hungary a family-friendly country, which is why it decided to introduce a unique family tax in Europe, which has helped nearly 1 million families. From next January, as has already been said, tax relief for families with two children will increase to HUF 35,000. Next year, the first married couple will receive a discount, with the minimum wage raised, the maximum amount of the child will be increased, so next year it will be HUF 193 200 gross, and this is almost twice as high as 2010. The government has decided to provide free textbook supplies to public education participants. The amount of the free children's meals will increase by HUF 5 billion next year, increasing to HUF 79.3 billion compared to 2017. An additional HUF 7 billion is available for the holiday meal. With a family-friendly budget, the government wishes to send a message that it is worth having children in Hungary. In the next year's budget, the total amount of HUF 1900 billion will be 140 billion more than this year in support of families raising children. The amount for 2018 is almost double what was intended for families in 2010. We use two and a half times this year for day care, a total of HUF 37 billion. The aim is to give mothers the opportunity to take up work in addition to raising children. Next year, you will receive HUF 26 billion more, total HUF 260 billion. We also use 2.6 billion HUF to get the first free language exam. The Elizabeth Programme will receive HUF 4.4 billion next year. We'll continue with the home-building program. As I said in the introduction, more resources will be available for HUF 226 billion. [[17.40]] Dear House, In 2018, the government will also achieve a pension increase equal to the rate of inflation, which is projected to be 3 percent. But, of course, as has already been said, and it has not been so yet, there can be a separate government action, depending on further economic growth. In addition, the management of families will be supported by further tax cuts in 2018, as has already been said, the VAT on restaurant meals, the Internet or fish. Fidesz-KDNP continued to opt for a tax reduction policy by 2018. With taxes falling, the economy is growing and salaries are increasing. This is the basis for tax reductions, and we will continue to do so in the future. The 2018 budget is also a guarantee that we will go through the career models announced so far. The continuation of career models in 2018 affects some 556 thousand people, whose overall salary increases between 30-40-45-50 percent, which totals HUF 906 billion. The wages of teachers have been discussed here many times, but the wages of teachers continue to increase, the budget also provides cover for the continuation of all measures already implemented, such as teachers' careers and related wage measures, the careers of state officials of district and county government offices, and the health, social and cultural wage measures already implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, In the 2018 budget, the government stands firm for the Hungarian people, as it protects all the results that serve the common good. I have already mentioned it, but it is important that I emphasise it, and it has also been said here in the debate that the multi-stage wage increase of healthcare workers continues. Next year's budget will also provide a much higher amount for hospitals, primary care and health care. Staff working in the social sector with a health education will be placed under the health pay table next year, so their wages will also be higher. More than 3,000 people are involved. Ladies and gentlemen, As Vice-President of Parliament's Defence and Police Committee, I must say that next year's budget is also the budget for the security of Hungarian people, which serves our enhanced security. We fully protect the security and rights of the Hungarian people, families, against the migratory pressure that threatens our country, against the threat of terrorism, and therefore we provide the necessary resources in the budget for the protection of the country's borders, for the protection of law and security, for the related defence tasks. Thus, 25 per cent more resources, 100 billion more resources, totaling 514 billion forints for public security compared to 2017. The career model salary of soldiers and law enforcement workers continues. By 2019, the salary of soldiers will rise by half. The Ministry of Defence's budget serves the above objectives, and accordingly it will increase significantly, with HUF 73 billion, which is also the main value of defence, we would like to devote it to the wage development of those involved in defence. Of course, improving working conditions is important and, in addition to the development of forces, additional resources are available for the development of barracks and equipment. The aim of the ten-year military development programme is to ensure that the Hungarian Defence Forces are strong and visible in the region, whose many capabilities were decommissioned before 2010. As a result of the programme, the Hungarian forces will meet NATO's expectations that at least 2% of GDP will be spent on defence. The budget provides a special source for the care of the military graves, for supporting the activities of civil society organisations in this regard, and for strengthening the Defence Sports Alliance. [[Dr. István Józsa: Good!]] Expenditure on mass immigration will be shown separately in the 2018 budget, while civil society organisations and stakeholder organisations operating in the field of defence can also manage from increased resources in the future. Of course, there's more to be spent in real estate, personal benefits in the defence budget. All law enforcement agencies can expect additional resources next year compared to this year. The police can count on HUF 22 billion in additional support, the Immigration and Asylum Office for HUF 427 million, the disaster management of around 4 billion, the Counter-Terrorism Information and Crime Analysis Centre, 339 million in additional support, and, of course, the execution of sentences can also be financed with more money. Due to mass immigration, the Ministry of the Interior plans to spend 50 billion extra expenses. The money will be used primarily for the operation of the two existing transit zones, set up in Tompa and Röszkén, as well as for the entry into service of newly installed border hunters. Otherwise, we provide all necessary technical and personal conditions for border protection. The police have a surplus of HUF 22 billion available to continue the career model. Here, too, the 50 percent wage increase will be achieved by 2019 to help increase the standard of living of police and military families. The defense budget will be HUF 427.3 billion, which represents a HUF 73.6 billion surplus. Further strengthening the security of Hungary is unthinkable without strengthening the Hungarian Defence Forces, and the budget for next year will ensure this. Ladies and gentlemen, The 2018 budget fully ensures the achievement of our stated goals, a stable background for an ever-increasing economy, that each area will have more in the coming year, with the aim of ensuring that families have a predictable and calm life, that they can step forward, so that the results of our communities and our country can continue to be preserved and increased in the future. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I recommend the draft budget for 2018 to be adopted by all my fellow Members, and I can ask you to do so on behalf of the Christian Democratic People's Party. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-17-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-17-103	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the health chapters, the health itself and the relevant part of the draft budget law for 2018. Perhaps we are right to act, and we see the problem of health itself correctly when we look at it in its dynamics, because the bill itself, the draft budget itself, shows a snapshot of what plans are, what problems need to be solved, and what resources are available for this. But it is more important to integrate this into an international and domestic trend, a dynamic medium. We have to talk about public expenditure here, because the budget itself is always the public expenditure side. Thus, international trends show that in a constantly ageing society, under a technological pressure, all governments are forced to take a permanent step, and not only the developed states, but also the far less developed states, are under constant pressure, as technological progress needs to be kept in check. If we put this in the same domestic context, it can be seen that in a far-reaching perspective, it can be seen with a view to a period prior to 2010 but even from the time of the change of regime, that the Hungarian health system has always been running after the wagon in this resource-intensive, technology-intensive way, and has tried to catch up with the technology and the chariot of the rising rate of public spending. [[17.50]] It was more or less successful for various governments, but it is clear that the global economic crisis has led to a major halt, and health not only under socialist governance, but also under the civilian government, which has emerged from the global economic crisis, has been put in the background of the areas to which they wanted to keep up. It is very easy to look at OECD statistics. Otherwise, there was a step backwards in public spending, and there was a retaliation everywhere, a austerity policy in the healthcare system. Perhaps Hungary was no exception. This is where we got to the point where in the 2010s, in 2010-11-12 Hungary was found with a very low cost of national goods at both European and neighbouring countries. The figures vary, but we can agree that 4.9 percent is the realistic figure, the amount of GDP that remains slightly below 5 percent, which covered public expenditure. This is, by the way, a relatively low number, which is why it is worth examining the dynamics of recent years. Although opposition politicians rarely say so, they seem to be moving positively, not only nominally but also in real terms in health expenditure. If you want to be a little selfish, boastful or boastful, you have to say that you heard the voice of the opposition. I trust that it was not the voice of the opposition, but the unanimous opinion of the profession that the government heard when it gradually turned its own eyes towards health care and decided to increase public health expenditure. Of course, the current situation is similar to that, perhaps by translating it into the language of the water vb, it is easier to understand that if we consider Hungarian health care to be a swimmer, then it has learned the turn of the crash and it is jumping fairly, but it is very, very far from the pace dictated by Katinka Long. There is a lot of development, a lot of extra resources and attention needed to bring Hungarian care to a European average or to a good quality. All financial indicators, performance indicators, any indicator that the OECD can measure not only public expenditure, but also health performance, the performance of the supply system... - there is a huge lag in everything. I'm not saying this is the cause of the current government. The current government may have something to consider in this regard when and how it started to remedy existing problems, because it has been seven years from government and consecutive unbroken governance, and perhaps by the end of the sixth year we have come to the point that the government has started to deal with the need to do something in health care. Perhaps electoral cycles should occur more often, and then all governments and all political forces would be forced to constantly tap into health care and devote more resources to it. I don't know what would be more beneficial if they always thought with a medical vein, or if the elections were always sooner, because maybe this could be the way to get more resources for health care. The main question is why it took seven years to wait for the workers to wait seven years, the subsystem after 2010 to bring about a meaningful development of health, which will have its pitfalls. I am sure that the health wage increase, which is not a career model, and this is the first criticism, because a career model would be needed, that the money spent in the program. This can also be a pitfall, because it is huge money, huge investment in infrastructure, and any international body of moderation you ask about it, they will say that construction investments are the most affected by corruption. These are questions to be decided in the future. The government's current measures may be said to point the way out of the tunnel. We very much hope that the pace will be fast enough, and we need a faster pace, and we very much hope that at the end of the tunnel, the light is not the approaching train, but the possibility of getting out. What will be a criticism of the current budget lines is that perhaps it is not in it - and perhaps Mr Secretary of State can disprove it, if he is in it - the hospital debt line that all reasonable people have to deal with. This is related to funding fees, how much we pay to individual actors in the health care system, whether it is the primary care provider, whether it is the general care provider, the outpatient care provider's score or the inpatient care funding fee. There is neither the way hospital debt is wound up, nor the increase in the financing fee, nor does it appear that the government is planning to re-install the money into this system at the current level of financing, since these hospital debts, despite trying to make structural adjustments, financial adjustments, remain, accumulate, grow, and continue to be a phenomenon that does not seem to disappear. With a good farmer's care, he should be somewhere, and a debt line should be in there. Which means funding fees, I don't see any increases in this either. I would very much like to see that the standard fee for general medical care of HUF 32 could be increased, and otherwise there is a better proposal for an amendment. If you like it, you're welcome to support it. For example, it could be increased by a HUF 5 billion to a standard that would enable GPs to perform their work honestly, find a doctor and provide care. It's also not a huge amount. At the rise of the financing fee, please, Mr Secretary of State, do not give the opinion expressed by the EMMI and Secretary-General Ónodi-Szűcs, which has actually increased, because if we adjust the salary increases to this, the financing fee is now not HUF 180,000, but a fee of HUF 200,000. We do not want to see the wage increase normalized, but all that is needed to carry out hospital activities, and the financing fee wants to do so, we want to see an increase. Pay is a completely different question. That is why it would have been the right approach to introduce a career model into health care, because it would have prevented this blur. It is also very important that we also have not been able to move away from the source, so that we can get the revenue in order. As I see the financing of Hungarian health care, the health care financed by the contribution has moved to a tax-funded healthcare system, which, as a system financed by taxes, the state from their central tax, has a huge exposure to the state's current economic performance, to the performance of economic operators. Thus, there should be a rethink of how the contribution and the tax rate are right and how long-term health management can be ensured. However, the international methodology is based on public health funding based on contributions, or largely on contributions. What is also lacking in it is a higher level of drug subsidies. Jobbik has a strong idea, which is that, in the framework of drug subsidies, it is not just age, it is not simply a retirement status to select and determine differences, but it is necessary to support Hungarian citizens in their drug spendings in a way that adjusts to their health. This has one good measure, chronic patients, or those who raise children and young children, must in some way be placed in the position of beneficiaries in support of medicines, since they can be expected to have a constant or increasing amount of medication, spending medicines, and therefore need help to bear the burden of the state instead of them. This trend in Hungary is also contrary to international trends. I think it is important to note that Jobbik also proposes that civil society organisations, which carry a great deal on their shoulders in taking over or supplementing public health functions, should be given a greater opportunity by increasing their budget support. In essence, we are talking about 20 million HUF items, small budget lines, which, in turn, is very important support for these civil society organisations. The assisted reproduction is the usual, which we always stand for, there was an increase. The population and society, equally, would like to provide a much bigger increase, a very framework for the children they desire to be born at last. In connection with the. Healthy Budapest plan, we have proposed that the Jahn Ferenc Hospital, which is in a very difficult situation, should have an additional opportunity to move forward and receive an additional amount of support. But what may not have been mentioned, and this can be said in parentheses towards the end, is that beyond the fact that we are talking about how to finance health care, where to involve additional resources, where to reduce expenditure items, it is very important that we do not talk about it, and perhaps it is not certain that this is the ground for budgetary debate, what structural changes can be made in the system, as the system is wasting in many places in its current form. [[18.00]] It could work three or four times more efficiently in many places and work much more efficiently. Thus, these restructurings and structural changes would be essential for us to draw the right financing conclusions. So right now, the system looks like we're pouring, pouring, pouring the money we need, we're gonna need a lot more, but in the meantime, we're not gonna look at where we put it, where it's actually used with good efficiency. The government is still in debt to review this, and allow your criticism, I have already said this in several places in professional institutions that I have seen the real serious mistake of Viktor Orbán's first or second and third governments in relation to health, that you have been given all the social authority to change the system in which you have been waiting for 27 years now, so in this healthcare, you have all the social authority to change the right direction. They had the political authority, they had the public authority, I think they had the expertise. You have failed to make these amendments, and we are now standing there, perhaps there will be no social mandate that will make this system worthwhile, and this will determine our health system for decades. It will turn it into barriers, it will turn it into a forced course, and it will be that in such a budget debate we will be talking about up to 1-2 billion or 10-20 billion, not whether we organised it effectively, not whether we have otherwise built a sustainable and cost-effective healthcare in the long term. So this is what criticism is about, the criticism is that a much higher pace could have been dictated, and much sooner we should have woken up in ordering health care. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-17-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, I would like to inform you that Mr Péter Harrach, Head of Group, has informed me that the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party has today renounced its further timeframe in the debate for the benefit of the Fidesz Group. I ask the staff to modify the time frame as notified. Thank you for your attention. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, Fidesz Group.
u2017-05-17-105	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Minister Mihály Varga, at the time of presentation of the budget and at the beginning of the 2018 budget negotiations, said in his exposé this morning that the Hungarian economy thanked him very much and is well. And so he rightly said, Minister, because, in the context of the 2018 budget, we can say that he has been on a growing path for the sixth year, and thanks to the well-being of this economy, we can plan with 4.3 percent economic growth, we can plan with 3% inflation, and we can say in the second place that we can plan a zero budget, so the state spends as much as its income. Such a state of the economy underpins the fact that we can say that 2018 will be a budget for people living in work. Once again, as has already been the case in several budgets, every Hungarian person can take a step forward in his own life. Seriously and calmly, we can plan to target full employment, which we are very close to. We will provide further family support, and last but not least we will also be able to strengthen the country's security. The state of the economy, which makes this budget possible. It also allows us to plan calmly and calmly in other important areas of social redistribution, including in the area of administration. Before 2010, we have often heard from the representatives of the socialist and free democratic government that the state can only be a bad farmer. After the change of government, we thought that we would prove that the state could not only be a good farmer but also be a real and quality provider. Every day we meet with the public administration, whether it is a request for personal documents or even an authorisation procedure. However, the handling of everyday life, if it is not smooth, can very easily make our lives miserable. In public administration, as in other areas, we had to build a well-functioning system from the ground up. With the establishment of county and capital offices in the public administration, appropriate regional expertise is now concentrated, while by resuscitating district offices and opening government windows we have brought public administration closer to the people. Dear House, For this reason, I would like to focus on ensuring the functioning of the metropolitan and county government offices, which are included in chapter XI, Prime Minister's Office, chapter on the chapter justification of the draft law on the central budget for 2018. Pursuant to Article 17 (3) of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, the government's regional administration is the government office of the capital and county. As I said, one of the government's key objectives in 2010 was to transform public administration, increase its efficiency, to create a more structured, controlled and cost-effective territorial administration, if you will. Consequently, Zoltán Magyary, the public administration development programme, has been established. In my opinion, I can firmly say that it has fulfilled its expectations, since Hungary's recent history hardly has a public administration development programme that has served as a guiding principle for its development activities in the sectors of government throughout a cycle, and has produced visible results during a cycle. In the framework of the establishment of a good state, the National Assembly established the 2010 CXXVI in order to make the operation of the regional administration system more uniform and efficient, thereby facilitating the development of the territorial administration of tasks and the implementation of the CXXVI. a law on the metropolitan and county government offices. In this context, the Government Decision 1958/2015 was adopted in December 2015 in order to create a service state, in the context of the strengthening of government offices in the context of the review of central offices and central ministerial background institutions in the form of budgetary bodies, and of the relevant powers rationalising them. That Government Decision provided for the restructuring of the central administration organisation, i.e. central budgetary bodies and ministerial background institutions to be abolished in the context of the transformation process. A large part of the bodies concerned have ceased to be legal successors, one part of the termination of the organisations concerned has been achieved by merging into the managing ministry, the other part by merging or merging into another body. In addition, in many cases, other tasks and certain tasks are taken over by bodies other than the general successor. Dear House, I would therefore stress that the role of government agencies has increased significantly. This is certainly a joy for the citizens who come to the administration. In this context, the impact of agreements between chapters already concluded, based on a durable basis, has been validated in the context of the planning of the 2018 budget. Ladies and gentlemen, When comparing with the 2017 budget, I would like to note the following, as a final discussion. Personal allowances may have started to grow in 2017, because on 24 May the National Assembly voted in favour of the law on the regulation of the service of state officials and administrators of the metropolitan and county government offices, which aims to transform the system of public administration in terms of promotion and salary, in order to create a state officials' office. [[18.10]] Accordingly, the first measure is the introduction of a lump sum payment for staff of district offices as of 1 July 2016 for the 2016 LII on State officials. by law. The legislation also requires that all managers undergo government-based training within five years and all employees receive administrative training and that training is developed and maintained by the National University of Public Service. I am convinced that a flexible system of salaries, which reflects professional qualifications and experience as well as performance, has been established, and this system of salaries will be introduced gradually among government officials. The budgetary expenditure included in the draft shall also provide for the performance of the social and guardianship duties as a priority, the resources necessary to carry out the administrative procedures and controls for construction and construction supervision and, for example, the funds necessary for the processing of backlogs. Compared to the figures, it is clear that in previous years major infrastructure improvements have been made, resulting in a modern, XXI. The public administration of the century is starting to develop in Hungary. The metropolitan, county and district government offices employ more than 36,000 people, and the state officials' career models, I think, give fairer recognition to those who imagine their future in the service of the public. The skilled and respected team of professionals, the properly streamlined division of tasks and tasks, the modern infrastructure and IT background are the features of the good state we have imagined and created. Finally, with regard to the 2018 budget, we can conclude that the metropolitan and county government offices form an essential part of Hungary's central budget, which includes the appropriations needed to carry out their statutory tasks, thus ensuring that they continue to operate in the future. In view of what has been said, I would ask this House, my fellow Members, to support the law on next year's budget with their votes. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-17-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2017-05-17-107	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear House, I have already said it today, but I feel that it is only fair, once again, to repeat what the Secretary of State has confirmed, that our economic policy philosophy and the Fidesz-KDNP government are very different. Because what we really see is that the 2018 central budget is really a budget of injustice, because there is only one thing that can be seen: that the small scaled friends from this budget, from these measures that it contains, will only be better for the upper classes, to serve them, their interests. The present bill does not contain great novumes, but rather pursues the ideas that had already begun in the years 2016 and 17 with some correction; of course, these amendments were very necessary, as you have also realised that these systems are not working. The bill does not aim at improving or improving the situation of people living in poor and poor living conditions, leaving them on the side of the road; for some reason, those who cannot or cannot work are getting worse. This is once again a budget that is not based on real and achieved figures and indicators. We are changing the 2017 budget almost at the same time as the presentation of the 2018 central budget - we discussed yesterday. And why do I tell the poor and people who can't work, even though they want to, they simply have a physical state that doesn't allow them to work, that this budget doesn't give them any more. I am saying this because you know very well that they have been left on the side of the road, people who have either had no qualifications, no qualifications, or who have not been able to get their skills in the same place, or who may have been able to find their place, in many cases, such as firefighters, we have proved in court that the cleaning women there were fired, and then, as public workers, they were rehired for less wages, for wages that they could not make a living on. And what brings the hardest living conditions for the rural population, that the person who is hired as a public worker goes through the training course for three months, finally receives a kitchen auxiliary qualification, can start working in the village kitchen next to the kindergarten, helping the children to eat, is dismissed after three months, and then stay home for HUF 22 800. So this is not a solution for full employment, because we trade people in the same places, train people for the same position, and even if it worked, there is no way that the municipality can leave them as employees and give them a normal salary, which we say they can make a living with. I have already said here in many cases among the walls of Parliament that what former Secretary of State Sándor Czomba said is that there is a net average salary of 200,000 in Hungary, it is in the countryside, you look around, and then you can't see it, you can't really see it, because it is really 110-120 thousand net people bring home, and it is very, very difficult to make a living today even in the countryside, where you produce a lot of things for yourself. But let's look at a young person in Budapest who, say, gets up to work in Budapest as a countryman, finally got out of the university, and here he is trying to make a living in Budapest with his strength. Today, with a young graduate starting the course, if you do not earn 210-230 thousand forints net, you will not be able to make a living. This is only because the property prices, the overhead and the livelihood are so high that these young people do not have the opportunity to live in our capital today. From this point on, this young man will go abroad to serve or do any work because he can make a living there on that salary. That is why I regard this as a budget for injustice. And I rarely agree with Sándor Czomba, but I think that demographic issues are very, very important issues in Hungary. When every sixth Hungarian child is born abroad for this reason, because as a young person, he wants to get a normal salary, even though he wants to make a living in this country, he cannot, because either he or she is moving into a sublet, a room with more of himself, where he cannot start a family or start a normal life or leave the country. At present, in most cases, these are the opportunities for young people today, which, I think, is unfair to future generations, is unfair to the young people on whom we want to build this country. And if we are proud that we are Hungarians and we are proud to be living in this country, then these are the young people that we would be obliged to keep and give them opportunities. And the problem is what a fresh graduate in a village near Paks told me: well, Anita, I'm raising a child alone, my biggest problem is that I'm getting 22 800 forints today, because I just couldn't get a job, and then I'm getting the paper from the IRS to claim 85 thousand forints back for family tax benefits, but I can't have 22 800 forints. That's unfair. Just the people who really need it don't get the family tax relief. And, of course, we can talk about giving a 30 percent wage increase to public companies in three years, only if it comes down the way it is now, as in many cases it has been, telling people at minimum wage that this year you won't get the 10 percent wage increase, because by raising the minimum wage you've already got it, that's again part of the injustice. Because the minimum wage increase isn't the 10 percent wage increase for public companies. That is why I say that, in many ways, this budget is unfair to the people who really need this money next year, and also this year. Then let's look at some numbers and see some facts. In 2018, you write in the proposal, the measures taken to estimate public service workers will continue. This is true in many cases - but what about municipal workers and the employees of the Parliamentary Office? They're the ones whose salary hasn't increased in seven years. These are the people who are helping us today at committee meetings with our work and creating the background for the Parliament to work. [[18.20]] These are the people who don't get a raise, and from now on, they don't get a raise. Then let's not say that the public service workers are more appreciated, because they're the ones who help us, and they're not really appreciated. Let's not even talk about paramedics. I think that a lot of people, to put it in rural terms, opened their pockets when Minister Balog took the paramedics to a luxury bistro for breakfast. We could have bought breakfast there at that bistro for HUF 3500, and then he announced that the salary increase of the paramedics was not as big as they were promised, because in the budget we see that 10 percent, compared to that, the paramedics were promised a salary increase of HUF 170 to 220 thousand and the paramedics were promised a salary increase of HUF 80 to 110 thousand. Well, I don't know, with that breakfast, I don't think they could be bribed, but they're still waiting for a 10% increase in their wages. I think there are a number of things that you should think about and touch to make this a real budget for the Hungarian people, not for friends, for friends, for those for whom you have created this opportunity for the past four years. If you just think about the fact that I have said here in several cases between the walls of Parliament that it is not worth it for Lőrinc Mészáros to bend down for five thousand forints, if he drops the money on the street, because during the time he bends down and picks it up, he earns exactly more, I think it is a fact for the Hungarian population that he does not want to understand, because if you think about it more deeply, he does not believe that he will remain young in this country. There are many cases where you really feel that you want to deal with only those who have been served and kistafírung: Lőrinc Mészáros, the jobless Árpád Habony, who does not have an official job or salary, yet lives better than 99.5 percent of the Hungarian population. I think that there are very, very many honest people working in your government, but I do not know how long their honor will last, because if this budget and their next year's government will serve the enrichment of these people, it will be very difficult to go home to the country and look into the eyes of the population and say that Hungary will perform better, because the young person who can't make a living today's salary, and next year won't have a salary that he can make a living from, which he can start a family, he can plan a future, that young person won't have a government from 2018. Thank you.
u2017-05-17-108	Congressman Robert Simon, Fidesz representative. Here you go.
u2017-05-17-109	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Fellow Members! I would like to say relatively briefly about two important sectors, which may have been given even less information on the budget, one for the cultural sector and the other for sport. Why am I doing this? On the one hand, because I am a member of the Cultural Committee and, on the other hand, because I am the representative of the Parliament of a city like Győr, it is precisely one of the Members of Parliament, because in the person of Mr. Ákos Kara, the other Member is among us, which is strong in both areas, because cultural life is extremely diverse and sport is extremely effective and traditional in Győr. The draft budget presented considers sport as a priority sector in which, in addition to government measures to improve the effectiveness of competition sport, the expansion of the social base of sport is also highlighted. One of the additional resources supported by the 2018 budget is the sport development tasks of the so-called priority sports sectors, which are part of the sport development concept developed in 2013, when the government decided to provide the budgetary resources scheduled for 2020. In the development of priority sports, the aim is also to ensure that the professional associations carry out their tasks in a coherent, comprehensive strategy. These sports will receive an additional HUF 500 million in 2018 for their development. Highlighted sports, just as a reminder: table tennis, athletics, wrestling, rowing, judo, kayak canoe, bike, skating, boxing, pentathlon, volleyball, sports shooting, tennis, gymnastics, swimming, fencing. So we're talking about 16 sports altogether. We find it a serious achievement that in the last four years, the number of certified athletes has increased by 65%, the number of coaches has increased by 17 percent and the number of members has increased by almost 7 percent compared to 2013. As in previous years, the promotion of high-level domestic and international events remains a priority, which is reflected in the draft budget for 2018. Understandably, it is an important task to ensure the state background of preparation for the 2018 Winter Olympics and the Paralympics. We all want our country to host as many major international sporting events as possible, as the benefits of these competitions can be shown, because our sports events bring our reputation to the world, attract athletes and sports tourists, create jobs and boost the sports economy. In 2018, we have won 51 international competitions, and the registration deadline has not yet expired. As in the 2016-17s, we can expect about 80 events at national level. In line with the government's decision, the National Institute of Food Nutrition for the Testing of Food Supplements used by athletes for the purposes of the illicit performance improvement provided a budget of HUF 100 million to carry out the operational tasks of the sports field. The draft budget for 2018 provides additional resources for further development and maintenance of the institution. The Institute can be of key importance for the competitiveness of Hungarian sport, since sports nutrition science and food supplements have become tools for legal improvement of performance today. The state also regards as an important area the sport of replacement training, where it ensures the conditions for professional work within a new organisational framework and in order to perform tasks. The whole point of a single system of training is to bring talented young people to competitions and top sports, and to direct young people out of competitive sports towards permanent sports, such as student and student sports. Its aim is to involve as many children as possible in regular exercise to broaden sports funds from 6 to 14-15 years of age and to provide a selection base for competition sport. Within the framework of the financial recognition of sports achievements and sports activities, the 2018 budget provides a higher budgetary resource for social support for the Aladár Gerevich sports scholarship, the Ezüstgerely art competition and the elderly athletes. The reason for this is that the Olympic, Paralympic annuities of athletes who bring glory to our country are always calculated from the average gross earnings of the previous year, and it can already be seen that next year the cost needs of this will be increased again, for which the planned extra amount serves as collateral. The government's aim is to include the broadest possible sections of the adult population in the world of movement, as sport-rich lifestyles have a great deal of positive benefits, ranging from improved health indicators to increased economic competitiveness, the best way of doing so is to develop recreational sports programmes and their scenes. The recreational sport should offer all Hungarians access to sports anywhere in the country, regardless of age, gender or financial background. It is an important and supportive area for recreational sports programmes and regular sport activities aimed at improving health, such as sport activities in nature, support for hiking, promotion of healthy, moving lifestyles. Last but not least, in the next year, there will be emphasis on helping people with disabilities and the sport of disadvantaged social groups. The 2018 budget also provides additional resources for the 6500 athletes with a competitive license to prepare for and participate in international events in sport for disabled people. [[18.30]] A few more thoughts about the cultural sector. I'd like to start with the support of the symphony orchestras. Thanks to their high artistic quality work, Hungarian music bands also promote Hungarian music training and Hungarian composers at international level. With their concerts, they try to reach out to all age groups and achieve significant results in the development of the music love of young age groups. The government intends to adjust the subsidies to the required level of performance of the symphony orchestras classified in the national category, with the annual support provided by the Act of Performing Arts. In the area of music life, there is also a justification for the wage development, which aims at raising the wages of artists working in orchestras to the same level as the wages of music teachers. From 2018 onwards, the orchestras will be supported with HUF 1.2 billion in additional support for their high-quality operation. And maybe another thought about art bands. At the end of 2016, the Government decision on the provision of resources for each civil society and other organisation provides HUF 1.5 billion of funding to the artistic groups. This will also be the case in 2018. It is also important to mention the increase in support for rural theatres. The professional work carried out by rural national theatres is crucial for the cultural life of Hungary. The national theatres in rural areas, including the National Theatre of Győr, are not only the town of Győr, but also the intellectual centers of the region, by increasing their support, we contribute to strengthening and strengthening the preservation of Hungarian national cultural identity and traditions. The increase in subsidies of HUF 110 million also contributes to the improvement of the theatrical and musical services of rural cities and their surroundings, which helps to reduce cultural inequalities between the capital and the countryside. The third element is the promotion of international or community cultural festivals and events. Here the previous, i.e. the current budget increase of HUF 250 million is being made compared to 2017. Local culture, the awakening and continuation of traditions are an important source of socio-economic development, and the values generated in the cultural field remain in the country in the long term. In recent decades, festival tourism has appeared as a very strong independent trend in the world tourism market. For this reason, the 2016 budget has already included a new appropriation of the dedicated or community international and domestic cultural festivals and events funding, which the profession has received with great satisfaction. It is important that citizens enjoy as much cultural experience as possible in their places of residence. The festivals play a major role in achieving this goal, which, apart from strengthening the visibility and attractiveness of a settlement, a city, a region, the locals gain self-esteem and pride. As I mentioned, compared to 2017, which was HUF 500 million, the budget will increase to HUF 750 million in 2018. I would like to mention as the fourth element the provision of basic cultural care, which is actually in the spirit of catching up in the countryside. Local cultural values are particularly suitable for strengthening communities, primarily through the re-discovery of community experiences and the transfer of local knowledge. From 2015 onwards, HUF 8.7 billion was available to support the library and community culture of settlements in order to achieve the strategic objectives of the basic cultural provision. As a result of the stable increase in resources, the aid scheme was transformed: the minimum amount of aid per settlement was set at HUF 1.2 million, thereby improving the quality of library and public education services in nearly two thousand municipalities in Hungary. It is a strategic result that, from 2018 onwards, the budget for municipal support for public collection and public education will increase by HUF 2.4 billion. Last but not least, some thoughts on cultural investment. The development programme and plans of the cultural sector, including ongoing investments already in government decision making and plans in the phase of decision preparation, cover national priority national institutions as well as rural cultural institutions. Among the projects of national importance, I mention the reconstruction of the Hungarian State Opera House and the Liget Budapest project for the complete renewal of Városliget. As a unique initiative, the major task of the cultural sector is the implementation of the Liget Budapest project, which covers the development of the natural environment of Városliget, where the emblematic institutions of the cultural institution network, such as the New National Gallery, the Ethnographic Museum, the Museum of Fine Arts, the Hungarian Museum of Technology and Transport, or the creation of completely new institutions such as the House of Hungarian Music or the City Park Theatre. Here, the 2018 grant amounts to HUF 39.9 billion, which represents an additional HUF 7.3 billion for the implementation of this project, as well as the National Museum Storage and Restoration Centre, the Csillag Fortress in Komárom, the reconstruction of the Olof Palme house and the start of the construction of the new building of the Ethnographic Museum. Finally, the renovation of the building of the Hungarian State Opera House on Andrássy Road. The Opera House is Hungary's only large theatre facility specially designed for operas and ballet, whose centre has been the Andrássy Road Palace built by Miklós Ybl for more than 130 years. The building is one of the most important monuments in the national economy. The reconstruction and complete renovation of the monument is inevitable, and the government decided to support it as early as 2015. As a result of the reconstruction, the Opera House can operate in modern, decent and safe conditions by May 2018. In 2018 HUF 15.7 billion is available for the renovation of the Hungarian State Opera House on Andrássy Road, which is HUF 8.7 billion more than the 2017 project, i.e. this year's support. Of course, there is a long list of additional resources in the sport and cultural sectors, and on this basis, I propose that the draft budget be adopted for my part, because we cannot call it a budget until it is adopted, only a draft. I trust that not only the representatives of the governing parties, but also as many of the opposition will support this proposal with their vote in favour. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-05-17-110	Thank you very much. Congressman Ander Balázs, the representative of Jobbik is next. Here you go.
u2017-05-17-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary, my fellow Members, who are becoming more and more shakier, but who are persistently persistent, are becoming more and more shakier. I would like to talk about three areas in today's debate: the first will be the situation of workers, the second will be the development of transport, and the third will be the issue of rural development, rural development and integration in this area. Here in the last few days, but even today, from the pro-government side, they have often boasted that the 2018 budget will be a budget for those who live in work. Let's add that already in 2015, a two-seek family with two children had a minimum livelihood of 255 thousand forints, that's all it took for the minimum living. It will not reach the level of 255 thousand forints in 2018, with two minimum wages, increased tax reductions or family allowances, but it will remain 10 thousand below it. In the case of parents who receive a guaranteed minimum wage, thus demanding skilled jobs, this amount, which, let's say, flows into the family register, will also come from below the social minimum, which is a little more than mere vegetation. I think it's far from okay. If we compare these numbers with the states in the region, say, the other V4 states that are driving us away at the speed of light, then it must be admitted that there is still work to be done, and even this disadvantage is growing. Otherwise, there is nothing to be surprised about, as a wage increase or not, but the fundamentalist neoliberal dogma, according to which the ability to attract capital here is nothing more than a reduction in low wages and workers' rights, and it is still alive and flourishing to this day. In this country, the main task of the political elite in power is to control the natives who work at low value-added jobs at the bottom of the global value chains of transnational companies, and to do so, by the way, you do well. In this spirit, the typical functioning of the multis and their own oligarchs, modelled on the disguise of labour market flexibility, has been weakened, for example, by trade union licenses. However, profit is not divided between capital owners and employees through some kind of meritoric process, so it is worthy. That's not true, it's a raw wage deal, so to speak, that's the stronger dog. [[18.40]] We have remained a poor house in Europe and, as I said before, we are growing, and this has played a major role in the destruction and weakening of the trade union movement. While Hungary's trade union coverage rate was still around 20 percent in 2001, it has now fallen to 9 percent, compared with two thirds of Europe's luckier half. And while the share of workers involved in collective agreements in Scandinavia is 80, we only have 25 percent. In parallel, the labour control system has been set up, and it is no wonder that in recent years the number of reported accidents at work has increased from 17,000 to over 23,000, and then we are talking only about reported accidents. Unfortunately, we do not see any evidence that they wish to make substantial changes in order to put an end to this. Without this degree of weakness in social and political regulation, capital logic will dictate that inequalities are increasing in Hungary as well, poverty is increasing compared to Western states. Workers forced into a wreckage society - because these figures are not as bright in rural Hungary as you would normally describe how much they will take home, let us say, an average Hungarian worker - these workers are unable to exercise even these limited rights. At most, they vote with their feet, so they emigrate when they're tired of what's going on. Or they can tolerate their wretched fate in learning helplessness, which many of them rejoice on the pro-government side. In addition to a number of budgetary amendments, State aid to the trade union forum to be set up could perhaps lead to a shift towards more normal conditions. What does that mean? There is a need to breathe life into the breakdown of sectoral dialogue committees, but this also requires budgetary resources. I ask very nicely Mr. Secretary of State, so that there is no misinterpretation. It's not about the actors, it's not about the Gaskos putting another multimillion-dollar cuckoo watch on the wall of their chili-vil union office. [[Defiance in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]] No, it's not like that. However, it is also unacceptable for the Hungarian state to spend only HUF 4 billion a year on employee representatives. That's absurd. There wouldn't be a kilometer of railway coming out of the Budapest-Belgrád line in Hungary. The dialogue institutional system, the infrastructure itself, the experts should be financed, who, for example, calculate the minimum living age instead of the HCSO. They should be given the powers supported by budgetary resources so that they can play or do better the role of labour control than it is today. But it would also be necessary to undertake public tasks in the field of active retraining, employee competence development and individual mentoring. And this would all require resources. Otherwise, it is not such a huge amount of money, so if the government is serious about next year's budget for people living in work, then we would very kindly ask that you pay attention to these and support these amendments. A few words about the development of transport, because there is no competitive economy without sufficiently advanced transport, and if transport is impossible, it means the death of the countryside. For us here in the Jobbik faction, it is important to increase the population retention power of rural areas. Nevertheless, we still do not see the long-term concept of railway lines, which make up 40 percent of the entire network, and its budgetary basis in the proposal before us. Obviously, it is not the responsibility of the MÁV; it is a task of transport policy and territorial development that we should at least read about in the budget for next year. Where not only do we see enough so-called material-free maintenance to prevent further decay, but we do see something from the cohesion funds being built, there, I am sorry that I am prejudiced, but according to the practice of the last few years, it will also be assumed that there will be a faceless overpriced and distribution of money to my friends next year. They do so by making it clear that the national rail development concept, developed as part of the national transport strategy, has been overtaken by operational programmes. What does that mean, translated into Hungarian? There's not a single penny to squander. After all, even the reconstruction of the Hungarian main lines in the European core network would reach or reach HUF 3200 billion. Thus, apart from island-like developments, there will be no mention of achieving the goal of achieving a country-wide, competitive, predictable, flexible public transport in Hungary. Although good targets may be budgeted, we also support transparent infrastructure investments, but there are some serious conditions for this. Neither EU nor national funds should be regarded as personal gift money by the gas mechanic as fidesz oligarchs and other small balls, Oberstrómanfuhrers. [[Defiance.]] And those in power shouldn't hold their hand for the racquet and brazenness of politics. Then maybe they can build new roads and railways cheaper, more can be created then. We expect greater ground in the big transport projects, because while the journey time in Budapest-Pécs has deteriorated from two and a half hours to almost three hours in recent years, there has been a line where, no doubt, 10 billion forints have been spent every minute of travel time improvement during an overpriced construction - brain freak! - I'm gonna add that you're not responsible. We can also see a lot in the budget that goes far beyond what is useful. We cannot simply pass the anomalies affecting the Hungarian section of the Budapest-Belgrád railway. In my proposal to amend the funds you have committed here, I have also hijacked it, although I do not see the chance of seeing the total madness of this project, which has already reached a total amount of HUF 1000 billion. With a huge Chinese loan, three times the annual amount of money spent on the entire domestic rail system, they would modernise a section of only 160 kilometers. By the way, the entire national railway system consists of over 7,000 kilometres of lines. So let's set up a pair of ratios, think about what a terrible imbalance we're dealing with here. The Hungarian people would be charged the price of Chinese economic reservation, with brutal debt to the budget. And we still couldn't see an impact study because they were willing to encrypt it. It all seems like Péter Szijjártó is not a Hungarian foreign minister, but China's colonial minister, who drags the natives into something that they will certainly not be able to come out of. A single line of gigantic credit would be modernised to allow foreign railway undertakings to use it. The socialists withdrew from rail transport at the time. As you can see, they have no intention of buying back at least part of MÁV Cargo from the Austrians in the form of a railway revision. But if it's really such a big deal to build a railroad for the Chinese, if there's really going to be so much traffic on this 150 line, then it might be worth thinking about. I see you're taking notes, Mr. Secretary. However, let me tell you that I have addressed a written question to your ministry, asking whether the Hungarian State is willing to buy back a certain proportion of MÁV Cargo. Round pretzels in a one-and-a-half line reply were rejected. We don't understand why, anyway. If there's going to be such an increase in traffic, they'll give up the best business. Isn't there a bit of a coherence disorder here? We think there is, by the way. [[18.50]] Then we should also consider why environmental protection in the transport budget has been virtually unknown since 2010. There's a small lot there, I've gone over it myself, but that's far from enough. To stop the deterioration of the saturated roads, if only the newer and newer filling of money into the hole barrel does not count as a solution or a budgetary resource. What am I thinking, exactly? In addition to the fact that road transport is one of the drivers of economic development, it produces all kinds of unintended, but definitely inherent costs, so-called negative externalities: accidents, congestion, air pollution. In the case of heavy goods vehicles, this is HUF 900 billion per year in Hungary, of which almost 400 billion is made up of infrastructure costs, amortizations, and almost half of which is responsible for foreign transit through us. They'll ruin the roads with a noble simplicity. It is clear, therefore, that, in addition to scarce resources - because the nearly HUF 400 billion of domestic funds raised in the budget for road construction, road repair and road maintenance should not be considered as a priority for the preservation of roads, compared to the needs that arise. That is why we would like you to support our proposal for a amending budget to facilitate intermodal freight transport, cheaper rail transport for trucks and containers. By the way, let me mention the Pharisee way they often behave; they really are just an example. They hooted enough because of certain investments in the better-run Ózd, but they didn't have a word at the time when the Public Procurement Decision Committee failed the joint application of the Public Machine and Italian Itinera, which, by the way, manages a significant part of the motorways there, so it has experience in this sort of thing. They submitted a tender for the construction of a section of the M4 motorway, which was rejected, saying that it was too cheap, so let's win the almost 50 percent, or 25 billion more expensive offer, especially if it belongs to the Prime Minister's new favorite. If they were able to spend the money with both hands here, they might also support my amendment to expand the south-somogy settlements' side road network and respond to what will happen by expanding and renovating the section of road 6 between Barcs and Pécs, which is vital for South Transdanubia. Finally, from the countryside. Behind the beautiful government statistics, social reality can be very ugly, of course, a pro-government politician flying over this region with a helicopter or huffing around in their comfortable estate centre, but four out of the EU's 23 regions are among the 20 poorest regions of the Union, who have been able to remove 300 million forints from their declaration of wealth. The gap is growing, as ten out of 19 counties have less than 50 percent of the EU level and only 29 percent of Nógrád County's GDP. Long-term poverty is particularly concentrated on Hungary's tiny villages, so it is also concentrated on my narrower Patria, South Transdanubia. Social mobility is more possible here only downhill, because it must be stated that the modernisation transition is stuck. In Hungary, however, the XXI. The most important issue of the century will be cohabitation and integration. However, ghettoism in some regions, such as the ever - deeper Cherehát, is so high that it threatens the social tranquillity of the near future. During many millennia, our physical possessions and spiritual values can come to life if the authorities do not hear the alarm bells, only to avoid the sound of the soul bell for Hungarian statehood. In a large part of the country, the population retention power of small settlements is astonishingly low, mobile young people hoping for a normal life are emigration, and ageing and ethnic reorganization seem to be an unstoppable process. For example, in the constituency where I live, the district of Csurgó and Barcsi produces one and a half times the rate of bad national mortality. The structure of the population in a given region has an impact on the social and economic structure of the region. And if integration fails and the door to the population trap closes to a region and then the whole country, then the resulting side effects will destabilize society. Well, it would be good to have the hands of disponators in practice over 250 billion forints planned for rural development next year. Once again, it could be said that I am a post-judicator rather than point out that it does not mean saving the countryside if you refer to the mere size of the sum - otherwise this greatness is quite relative. The brazen theft of money for the countryside, Lord Voldemort and his friends in the South of Azkaban could tell a lot at an anti-corruption prosecutor's office. I'm very sorry that there are no people involved. It will therefore be very important to spend these resources most effectively, increasing the common good, not the private pockets. If you do not have ideas, then he will give you the know-how from many of the amendments made by my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, which relate to the countryside and agriculture. It needs to be seen, and the rural population is particularly exposed to the fact that the population is a demographically growing population and a demographically declining, shrinking population that has to deal with completely different problems caused by population development. There are drastic social and economic consequences that could undermine social and political systems. When social disintegration processes and population explosions among those living in the culture of self-segregating opt-out constitute a dangerous explosive that poses a serious national security risk when there are at least 135 thousand vulnerable children in our country, but in 2300 settlements only one or two days per week can be achieved by child welfare professionals, family planning, awareness-raising and attitude-forming should not be a tabulated concept. He was right about the Borsodi Vojvodina when he said that the child was not an animal but a responsibility, and he was also right about István Forgács, who said that giving birth to poverty at a young age without school is not a cultural right and virtue, and, I add, obviously, motherhood and having children are sacred. It would be very nice for everyone to think that way. That is why we are saying, and we are proposing, in our proposals for amending the budget, that when there really is no hope when it comes to saving the child, when it is necessary to highlight from the medium from which there is no future, from which there is no rise, it would be necessary to set up and finance boarding schools. I can already hear the accusation that we wickedly want to separate children from their parents. It's not like that. To add, we also think that early prevention is the best thing. Yes, parents must be involved, and the whole family must be involved in the shaping of attitudes, which is why we would like to see a programme of tasks such as the very respectable and mission-appointable programme of children's homes in the next year's budget with some more resources, as I think, and perhaps that my fellow members of the government agree, that I have said earlier, that much more volume would be needed, not just to involve 2,600 people in these very positive, very forward-looking programmes, because our future is at stake. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-17-112	Thank you very much. Congressman Miklós Simon, Fidesz representative. Here.
u2017-05-17-113	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The political and social challenges of recent years have highlighted the need for individual nations to rethink their views on globalisation. The continued migratory pressure, the threat of terrorism, requires that we place a much greater emphasis on law enforcement and public security in the budget than previously. [[19.00]] The European Union's achievements, the EU's rights and, of course, the rights of Hungarian citizens should not be compromised, nor their opportunities. Hungary's economic situation is increasing year after year, so there is more money for defence. Every year, the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces perform almost beyond their strength, proving that if necessary, they can close the Hungarian green border within a short period of time with hundreds of kilometers of security. On the Hungarian-Serbian border section, the border lock was built and the migration wave was contained with the help of the soldiers. The Hungarian Defence Forces have been actively and with great forces since the beginning to deal with the crisis caused by mass immigration. At present, their basic task is to support police work, thus guaranteeing the safety of our country. Their professional skills, accuracy, conscience and commitment have so far been highly appreciated by the members of the international community in all missions and appreciated by them in many crisis zones around the world. With regard to budgetary resources, the main amount of support for the defence chapter will be significantly increased by HUF 73.6 billion by 2018. This represents an increase of nearly 21 per cent compared to the previous year's appropriations. Thus, the total expenditure of the chapter for 2018 amounts to 1,06 percent of the estimated GDP. This indicator is also important because the Prime Minister announced an increase in defence expenditure at the NATO Summit in Wales in September 2014. Hungary will continue to align its defence expenditure with the NATO average. That way, we'll make another move next year. Other military obligations arising from federal and international contracts are also specific tasks of the Hungarian Defence Office. It is particularly important to carry out joint defence, peacekeeping and humanitarian tasks and to contribute to the military tasks of the fight against international terrorism with the forces assigned and prepared for it. According to the proposed budget law for 2018, Annex XIII is amended as follows: The Ministry of Defence has a budget of HUF 392 billion in HUF 824 million and a budget of HUF 427 billion in HUF 337.8 million. The Ministry of Defence's 2018 budget proposal also covers the development of salaries and wages in the context of careers announced in recognition of the appreciation of public employees, the 5 per cent salary development in 2018 for soldiers as a continuation of the military career model, as well as the 2018 expenditure on civil protection allowances for civil servants. Through the development of a new military career, the military profession can become a career bridging the real military career as a whole, thus strengthening the preservation of the Hungarian Defence Forces. Due to the significant expansion of the framework, it is planned to spend HUF 94.6 billion on development tasks in 2018. That's 22 percent of the total planned expenditure. This ratio is in line with the objectives agreed at the NATO Summit in Wales and provides a sufficient basis for the continuation of the developments undertaken and for the launch of future developments. The budget will provide funding for the continuation of the development programmes started in previous years and for the 2018 pace of the implementation of the 2026. Zrínyi programme for defence and force development, which was launched by the portfolio in 2017. The Defense Act states that the protection of the country is a national matter. In line with this principle, social support and the approach of civil citizens are an important element of the implementation of the programme, Zrínyi 2026. A top priority is to strengthen the system of relations between defence and society, in addition to gaining widespread social appreciation and recognition. The maintenance and expansion of the voluntary territorial reserve system, as well as the strengthening of the relationship between defence and society, will be a major component of the programme. In order to ensure the sustainability and expansion of the voluntary reserve system, it is necessary to open up to young people and to social groups who feel the issue of protecting their country. They are committed and want to be able to take part in this task. Supporting the Defence Sports Alliance and civil society organisations is one of the tools for placing the renewable reserve system on a wider base, strengthening the relationship between defence and society. The Defence Sports Association was held by the National Assembly in CXXXII of 2016 on the Defence Sports Federation. established by law, specifying the tasks to be carried out by defence sports in order to acquire defence knowledge by participating in defence education programmes. The Defence Sports Association can complement and provide the basis for the training and training of young people who wish to enter the voluntary reserve system, to take part in the protection of their country. Hungary's independence, national values and guaranteeing the protection and security of Hungarian citizens require the modernisation of defence and the development of its capabilities. Therefore, the other key element of the programme, Zrínyi 2026, is to maintain and develop the capabilities resulting from the basic order of defence, and to provide NATO with or offered capabilities in addition to these capabilities. The 2018 budget also takes account of the development of air, air defense and ground transport capabilities, and has been designed to cover the expenses necessary for the installation of soldiers and the development of the special operational capability. The aim of the barracks development concept is primarily to improve the living and working conditions of personnel, to renovate military objects, housing and buildings providing training, food, health and logistics. [[19.10]] The 2018 budget can create the continuation of development programmes and developments that have started in previous years. The budget proposal includes the Gripen lease expenses, the purchase of military VHF radios, vehicle procurement programmes; the development work of the Hungarian Army Papa Base Airport in the framework of the development of the air force, and the continuation of the helicopter modernization programmes launched in 2017. In view of the previous operational offers of our country, the expenditure of international tasks in 2018 was established on the basis of the current available information and basic data, taking into account the planned changes in NATO and EU operations in 2018 and the corresponding Hungarian engagement. The following year's budget proposal calculated the involvement of the Islamic State against the terrorist organisation, the expenditure necessary for proportionate participation in operations in Afghanistan in line with the intensity of NATO military operations, and also provides resources to maintain the presence in the Balkans, Africa. The bill grants the Minister of Defence the right to transfer within the appropriations of the chapter in order to carry out the tasks arising from international engagement and to pursue the objectives of the development of forces to NATO. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on the deployment of contingency sub-units under NATO and EU recommendations, with the approval of the Government, which can also help to achieve our international engagement. Ladies and gentlemen, Due to the deterioration of our security environment, there is a need to increase the defence budget, which is ensured by the country's growing economy year after year. As the budget has been drawn up accordingly, I would like to ask you to vote in favour of the adoption of the draft budget law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-17-114	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Ákos Kara applied for his first speech. Here you go.
u2017-05-17-115	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The budget for 2018 is a budget for people from work, and I think it is important that at every moment, even if there is a difference of opinion, we are able to approach the various topics correctly, so we must respond to some of the points raised recently by my better fellow Member; to make the government's position very clear what is in the Hungarian budget, which was born and proposed in the interests of Hungary, for the benefit of Hungarian families. Here we are witnessing an early election campaign, as the better-sounding noise of street posters entered the National Assembly, and I think it is important to say some important aspects of transport, rail development and rural development at all. I think that we have said it several times, but it is important to note in Parliament's debate on the draft budget for 2018 that, from a government point of view, it is a priority to ensure that cities with county rights are accessible and accessible properly. I think that this must not only help the transport of cities with county rights, the fate, the future and everyday life of the people living there, but also improve the quality of life of the rural areas there as a whole, the entire Hungarian rural settlement structure, the lives and quality of life of people living in rural settlements. In the 2018 budget, it is clear that, in addition to EU funds, the involvement of domestic funds is becoming increasingly important. I think that this is a very significant achievement and an important government goal in the coming year. Therefore, major rail developments are continuing and significant road investments will continue. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, as has been said earlier, I consider it a great deal of value, and I consider it an important step forward to provide adequate wage increases with sufficient coverage and to deliver wage increases to those concerned. I think that it is worthwhile and should be said that 2018 represents a step forward for transport workers and workers in state-owned companies, just as we did in the field of health and education. I think that it is an important step forward and a joint success in the governance of recent years that wage increases are available to cover in 2018. This is included in the draft budget. That is why I ask my fellow Members that, when we vote, we decide on the fate of this bill, then they also support government wage increases for state-owned companies. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft budget for 2018 includes the previously decided government intention to start financing a 100 billion-dollar road renewal programme, a road renewal programme covering the entire territory of Hungary this year. This year, HUF 60 billion and HUF 40 billion are available. In all counties of Hungary we will be renovating significant sections of the road, and significant sections of the road will be renewed. I think that, in this sense, we will be able to pursue that government objective in recent years, and we will be able to continue at even higher pace in the coming year than we did before. I would like to point out to you that the so-called territorial operational programmes also contain various road renewal intentions for the countryside, which I believe local communities have decided, and the representatives of local communities, my faith and my belief, have been able to represent it well, and the government is obviously a partner in this. I think that, overall, rural development - as has been said and it is important to talk about it correctly and objectively - has always been an attempt in recent years to ensure that those rural regions, those rural areas, are given a greater share of the various development programmes, such as the so-called territorial operational programmes, where, in addition to EU funding, there is also domestic government funding, which is disadvantaged in some respects where we want to speed up the catch-up. This is precisely what territorial operational programmes provide for rural development, which is precisely the background of this, and my fellow Members may know that in recent years we have been able to develop the content of this together with local communities, in line with government intentions, and the local communities have developed the content of this together. The continuous launch and launch of these programmes, I think, in general, achieves the goal of helping local value-keeping and value-creating activities primarily through economic development. Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking you, too, to accept, vote for, to ensure your support for the 2018 draft budget, as this is how we will be able to complete the 100 billion-dollar road renewal programme with HUF 40 billion in 2018, so that we can continue the other programmes launched for railway development and road development that I think we need very much in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-17-116	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of the government, Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, has come forward. Here you go.
u2017-05-17-117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the speeches made by my fellow Member Miklós Simon and my fellow Members who spoke before him, because I see that they too see, feel, perceive and acknowledge the work, the service that the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces are doing to protect the Hungarian border, and also the service that they are doing in barracks. Thank you very much for seeing and recognising the effort the government is making to take care of the soldiers. We heard from the opposition benches that we had heard this or that part of the speech earlier. Allow me to disagree with this opinion and stress that it is indeed important that there have been several times that very important parts of this budget in the defence chapter. [[19.20]] After all, I really think that this 2018 budget, which is the budget of people from work and the third important pillar of security in addition to work and family, can be a turning point in the history of defence budgets, since we started very far and very deep. If we recall that between 2000 and 2010, the Hungarian defence not only lost weight, but also lost its capabilities, its military technology also disappeared, and then the country was occupied by overcoming the economic crisis, and now that all of us, as a result of the efforts of the Hungarian people, are performing better, the Hungarian economy is also able to move forward in the field of defence budgets. After 2015, we felt that we had to take action because of the change in the safety environment. This is a much healthier defence budget, as the Member said, 20 percent of the budget can be used for improvements, about 30-33 percent for operation and the rest for personnel expenses and salaries, which is a very important part of the budget, since the highest value is man, soldier, military, and the first Orbán government, after an increase in defence salaries between 1998 and 2002, the next, and by 1 January 2019, soldiers will earn 50 percent more than the base. Nor should we underestimate the 1.06 percent - which shows the percentage of GDP that Hungary spends on defence - since the desired 2 percent required by NATO is only reached by five countries and is close to 1-1.2 percent of the waist. So we're not behind on this either. We have a strong programme on the basis of the 2016 government resolution that we are going forward, and every year, according to the decision of the government, the defence budget will rise, which, of course, will be used responsibly by the Ministry of Defence and the Hungarian Defence Office to improve development, salary development, living and working conditions, and working conditions, as we have heard from my fellow Members. The 2018 budget is important and the defence chapter is important, and I call on my fellow Members to support the budget when deciding. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-17-118	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Imre Horváth has experienced the enormous advantages of being a member of the government, in addition to many problems, because he has just been given the floor as a Member. So thank you very much for your patience with the Member. Here you go.
u2017-05-17-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. I, too, would like to add a few thoughts to the HM budget, in some respects without the need for completeness. He mentioned, Mr Secretary of State, several of my fellow Members, how big this 0.1 percent increase in GDP is, although I think that was a requirement, so that should not be boasting, it should have been achieved a long time ago to increase this percentage of GDP to a higher percentage of GDP. If you look at it accordingly, the total expenditure will increase by HUF 73.5 billion. I don't want to list the numbers from the columns here, but if we look at the location of the barracks, we look at the state and state of the military technology, then, indeed, we could increase this total by much more than HUF 10 billion. It should also be noted that a significant part of this increase will be taken away by a new chapter appropriation entitled 'expenditure related to the management of mass immigration'. This is a HUF 25 billion item. It is also a significant new item among the chapterly managed appropriations to provide HUF 1 billion to the stand-up Hungarian Sports Federation. The public service salary base and the civil protection salary base differed in 2016. While the public service salary base has been set at HUF 38 650 since 2008, the budget proposal has remained unchanged for 10 years, the defence salary base will rise by HUF 1490 to HUF 43 110. Some thoughts about numbers. The 2018 staff was designed for 26 750 people. This represents a significant increase of 1020 people compared to this year. Interesting is the chapter justification for this, which says that the scheduled approximation to the number of persons authorised in the 35/2013 OGY resolution on the detailed breakdown of the Hungarian Defence Forces. That's an interesting explanation. The projected amount of personal expenses will increase by HUF 17 billion, resulting from the increase in the number of staff indicated in the previous point and the increase in salary on the basis of the military career. As a negative, I assume that the civil servant pay table has remained unchanged after 10 years, which also affects civil servants of the Hungarian Defence Service. The lowest salary per civil servant's pay table remains 69 thousand forints. To a significant extent, the budget of the HM chapter is not allocated directly to the resources available to the Hungarian Defence Office, but to other operating grants and expenses. In view of the fact that expenditure related to the management of mass immigration is included in the HM budget, as well as the continuing increase in the remuneration of soldiers and the planned expansion of the mission in Iraq, it is apparent that the government is not planning to develop significant military technology from the HUF 73 billion extra resource in 2018. Since the change of government in 2010, there has been no significant modernisation of military technology, while the depreciation of developments is increasing every year, and this, moreover, undermines the territorial integrity of the defence. I also mention that HM is slowly making a tradition of providing fantasy names for different programs. Formerly the Military Defence Policy Programme, currently the new magic word for the budget is the Zrínyi 2026. The budget for this is relatively significant compared to previous years, with a budget of HUF 39 billion. At the same time, it is very vague what that name actually means. The 2018 budget also includes running development programmes, vehicle procurement programme, procurement of combat VHF radios, Mistral weapons system and other assets, as well as the development of the papal base airport MH, for which more than HUF 5 million is foreseen. The budget envisages HUF 9 billion in the implementation of the housing development concept. In 2015, as in this year, the support of the Hungarian Football Academy Foundation for HUF 50 million was included among the appropriations managed by the chapter. At the same time, the budget for the Social Policy Foundation MH remains unchanged, amounting to HUF 63 million. [[19.30]] I know that the army is carrying out very high-profile tasks, physically and spiritually used, which is also apparent from the current situation. Mr Secretary, I would like to mention that the issue of introducing a service pension should be addressed. This would be a very important question, that this stock, which requires great physical stress, will be worn out by the age of 60, that something should be done in this regard. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-17-120	The Secretary of State may now proceed, because he has applied for a statement: Mr Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State, on behalf of the government.
u2017-05-17-121	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Yes, this number war, 0.1 per cent and what percentage of GDP is the budget, we are fighting it, but I think it is not worth it if GDP is growing - and we see that it is growing - and we see that to a very high degree - then 0.1 per cent is also higher. I would like to emphasise once again, Mr President, that we are not behind in the 28 NATO countries, and we were able to keep our budget at a level when the majority of countries were forced to reduce due to the economic crisis. But if you are asking, Mr President, what steps should have been taken earlier and what should have been done and how much should have been increased, I would like to remind you that, as a result of the economic policy between 2002 and 2010, the country got there in 2010, that it was on the verge of bankruptcy, and that we had to move to other directions to stabilise the economy, to make it possible for growth, and today we will also be able to increase the defence budget. And why there are no military equipment, why the barracks are in such a state and why the barracks are in such a state, and that is due to the faulty doctrine created by Ferenc Juhász, Minister of Defence between 2002 and 2006, who said that there is no need for almost any serious Hungarian defence, that only operational mission skills are needed, and therefore today there are no serious capabilities in the Hungarian Army. Knowledge is almost gone, and the tools are gone. [[Attila Mesterházy: What have you been doing for six years?]] This is why these capacities should be restored within the framework of the Zrínyi 2026, based on this budget and on this budgetary growth. [[Attila Mesterházy: After six years?]] We also always open a staff dispute; yes, there is an authorised number, there is a budget number and there is an actual number. The actual number of posts may be increased only if the posts are available and can be filled [[Attila Mesterházy: Can't you afford it?]] You can't go through a military force, which is a hierarchic organization, you can't take one of the positions, say, from the tank, and move it somewhere else, because if you take one or two assignments out of the tank, then the tank will be out of order. So that's why it's a threesome. And to keep and expand the file, we did do a lot. With regard to salary increases and crews, the labour market bonus introduced by last year's Minister's decision, which has been incorporated into the salary of the crew category this year, I think that with this and these steps, which represent a 5% increase on 1 January of each year, 2018 and 1 January 2019, we are trying to make the jobs of those serving here attractive and retainable. On the issue of service allowances and pensions, I think that what we have created is a just system. It's fairer than before. We have also done so that soldiers who suffer health damage can continue to serve, or, if they cannot, because their health damage is so high, they will receive their dues, and even in this system, even five years earlier, soldiers will have the opportunity to quit duty if the situation so requires. If not, we will try to give them opportunities in other areas of the public service. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-17-122	Congressman Zoltán Demeter, Fidesz representative. Here.
u2017-05-17-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It has already been said several times today that the 2018 budget is a budget for people from work. Yes, we want every Hungarian to feel that there is meaning, there is fruit in his work, and, of course, to feel progress in both his and his family's lives. That is why we set the goal of achieving full employment, which is why we gave benefits to families year after year and further strengthen the country's border protection and security. And all of this is possible because Hungary's budget stabilized after the change of government, and Hungary became economically stronger. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, as a member of the Judicial Committee, also to talk about church affairs within the committee's remit in relation to the budget. I would like to quote first of all Article VII of the Fundamental Law. Article 4 (4) of the Treaty, which lays down that the public and religious communities may cooperate with a view to achieving the Community's objectives. Cooperation shall be decided by the Parliament on the basis of the request of the religious community. The religious communities involved in the cooperation function as established churches. In view of the involvement of established churches in the tasks of achieving Community objectives, the State grants specific entitlements. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, The fact that the state and the Parliament are serious about all this is also ensured by a recently adopted bill that gave the Tisza Castle of Gest, the property of the Reformed Church in Hungary. We did this by more than two thirds because we thought that the Reformed Church would be the best owner of the building, using it for cultural, educational and religious purposes, serving the common good. There is still a procedure or a proposal that would provide property to the Orthodox Exarchate of the Universal Patriarchate of Constantinople in Hungary, but can also be said to be a home, in order to carry out their activities in Hungary in decent conditions. The commitment of public and religious communities to cooperation is demonstrated by the bill on the budget submitted. I would like to highlight the support for religious teaching, among the central budget contributions for ecclesiastical purposes. Under the law of ecclesiastical law, the ecclesiastical legal person may organise religious education in an educational institution maintained by the state, local government or minority self-government and in a higher education institution maintained by the state or the national minority self-government, as defined by law, and the costs of religious education are provided by law or by agreement with the established church. [[19.40]] Optional religious education is carried out in kindergartens separately from kindergarten occupations, taking into account the kindergarten life order, within the opening hours, but in a time frame that is not educational time, in schools it can be organised in accordance with the order of compulsory teaching sessions and in the dorms in accordance with the order of college occupations. I am convinced that the moral, ethical and, where possible, credit education of future generations will greatly affect Hungary's fate. For this reason, I consider it very important that the budget provides adequate budgetary resources for both compulsory and optional teaching of faith according to needs. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the inevitably educational and public education tasks of religious communities, I would also like to speak about the role of the churches as national retainers. In fact, the budget provides cover for the incomes of ecclesiasticals serving in settlements of less than 5 000 inhabitants. In addition to the purpose of supporting faith, income supplements contribute to the preservation of small settlements. The 2018 budget also provides cover for the support of ecclesiasticals serving in the congregations of sporadic settlements abroad in Hungarian, as well as additional support for their national preservation activities. The support of ecclesiastical persons serving in the Hungarian language in the Hungarian congregation across the border contributes to the reduction of the assimilation of Hungarians across the border and to the preservation of Hungarians living in sporadics. In addition to the above, the basic task of the development and promotion of cross-border ecclesiastical institutions is to contribute to the achievement of long-term national policy strategic goals in the field of faith life, to which activities from this source can serve as a starting point. Multi-annual experience shows that the maintenance and day-to-day operation of ecclesiastical facilities in abroad would not be safe without Hungarian resources, so the purpose of use takes into account the wide range of multi-territorial ecclesiastical tasks. The subsidies also contribute to the reduction of the assimilation of Hungarians across the border and to the preservation of Hungarians living in sporadics. The draft budget provides an opportunity to support the renovation costs and certain investments of facilities with a church reserve abroad, including infrastructure development closely linked to the functions of ecclesiastical organizations, and even the purchase of high-value tangible assets, and sometimes the support of events and programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, It is important that the draft budget does not forget the protection of the ecclesiastical heritage. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. Each grant amount shall be transferred to church legal persons or to cross-border ecclesiastical organisations after the processing of the proposals made by the churches or following a support decision, in the form of a grant advance or after-financing, depending on the nature of the project. Among the appropriations, I would also like to highlight the support for church community programmes and investments, which provide additional resources, for example, to support certain developments of the Esztergom-Budapest County in connection with the 2020 World Congress, as well as the necessary funds to continue the renovation of the Rumbach Sebestyén Street Synagogue in Budapest. I think it is very important that Hungary also wants to play an active role in helping persecuted Christians, as decided by the government. Today's persecution of Christians marks controversial and complex global processes that can affect the future of Hungary and Europe in the longer term and preserve its identity. By providing budgetary resources, the aim is to increase the wider focus on the subject at home and in Europe, and to support communities in crisis zones affected by Christian persecution through a scholarship programme and intervention assistance. Finally, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the development of cooperation between the two largest churches in history. The Reformed Church of Hungary in Bethesda Children's Hospital is developing the child's emergency care and the child's psychiatric department. With the joint development of the Bethesda Children's Hospital and the Buda Irgalisrendi Hospital, the maternity and gynecological care and the birthing of natural birth methods will be available in Budapest, as well as the scope of child health benefits in Budapest will be extended. I believe that the practice of recent years has shown that cooperation between the state and the church is beneficial to the parties not only at the level of generality but also in individual cases, as indicated by the recent joint hospital development. On the basis of the bill before us, we have reason to hope that 2018 will also be a success in the area of this cooperation. That is why I am asking you to support the adoption of the budget. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-17-124	Thank you very much. The representative of Jobbik, Mr István Apáti, is the next speaker. Here.
u2017-05-17-125	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Instead of the genre or category of large and more general speech, I chose the genre focusing on certain problems in the constituency of Mátészalka. I am very pleased that my fellow Member, Mr Sándor Kovács, is here in this Chamber, and I hope that he will support me in all my ideas and give his vote in favour, both by building the M49 bypass road, and by building the prison in Ring, as soon as possible, and for my budgetary amendments to the development of the Mátészalka Hospital, I do not think that there is any reason to find fault in these proposals. I would like to begin with the proposal for the construction of the M49 bypass road with the highest cost. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the investment that has been promised to the Szabolcs and the Szatmár region for at least 20 years. The whole point of this investment is that the M3 motorway would start from its current 266 kilometres and kilometers and reach our current border in the direction of Kocsord and Chenger, then join the Romanian-Hungarian road to be built in Romanian territory, and otherwise improve Hungarian-Hungarian relations in this way. [[19.50]] Well, that's what they're doing, campaigning through cycles for pro-government representatives. They promise the people of Szatmár, but there's always one thing in common: it's never gonna happen. A hoof cut did not happen, a meter of road was not built, although Congressman Simon wags his head, the fact is that it is the truth. I know it's embarrassing, but we're talking facts here. There's no word from the M49, no ashes. I'll give you some amazing data to support your need. For the first time in the summer of 2006, Kocsord's municipality made a 24-hour traffic count. As a result, the result was that 10 324 vehicles passed through the settlement in 2006 in one day. In 2010, we repeated this traffic count, when there were more than 16,000 cars passing through. It's a total of data. We can find plenty of all categories of motor vehicles, but even trucks, heavy vehicles, in the tractor category, hundreds and thousands passed through the settlement in one day. Kocsord and Mátészalka suffer the most from this problem, as the traffic of the border crossing points in Bellershima and Tiszabecs weighs on these settlements, Kocsordra is 100% and Mátészalka is at least 80-90 percent. In addition, the current main road is characterised by depressed, narrow, extremely dangerous accidents, accidents that cause serious or permanent damage to health, serious injury or even death on a regular basis. It seems that until the bypass is built, these will be inevitable. By the way, the implementation of this trip was quite good until 2010, and the impact assessments, the plans, the authorizations were good, and then there was an error in the system, and this investment was constantly ranked backwards in the order of importance. In the settlements concerned, the wall of residential properties along the main road was cracked, the value of the real estate was significantly reduced. In addition to the risk of an accident, noise pollution is also significant. It seems that these people, these property owners, bear the price and consequences of the irresponsibleness and negligence of the MSZP-SZDSZ and Fidesz governments. Well, it can, of course, be built in several stages. It's possible to stage. Here, however, a fidesz internal conflict has to be mentioned. If the first stage will only last until the close branch of Győrtelek to the Tunyogmatolcs, and we cannot draw the trail at least hundreds of meters further in the first stage, then I fear that the White-Girmat-Gallery lobby will sing the cheese out of our mouth - this is an old concern - and will take it to Jánkmajtis, towards Jánkmajtis-Tsengersima, the trail of the road. Fortunately, Natura 2000 sites are abundantly located on the Jánkmajtis-Csengersima route. This is a serious obstacle to these white-collar-motivated efforts, which are extremely detrimental to our constituency. At the same time, while we are at this point arguing about how many steps, how many stages are built and exactly where each section line is located, just start building this road. In my proposal for a budget amendment to be submitted, I would like to place a very moderate HUF 25 billion on the Watchman-to-Chenger section, which means the construction of a 45-50 km expressway. I will also discuss how this would serve the noble aims of job creation. In addition, I have a very serious and strong argument, namely that the Prime Minister of Hungary has promised the Satmarians twice in the last six months that this trip will be built very quickly. His first promise was made last year at the end of the Romanian election campaign in Szatmárnémeti. I was very pleased with this Prime Minister's revelation. On the other hand, a few days ago, on 4 May in Csenger, between 11.30 a.m. and 12 a.m., the Prime Minister made a firm promise to do so at the inauguration of the district school. The problem is that you didn't look into the current plans of the Ministry of National Development. I asked this question six, perhaps eight weeks earlier, and it turned out that 2020, but rather 2022, was the earliest date of the beginning. So it would be very good for the Prime Minister to consult with his own minister, his own secretary of state, and make a statement as it is true, not make an irresponsible promise in an early campaign. Moreover, I am extremely sensitive to this statement because the second promise was made in the city where I was born and raised in Csenger. For understandable reasons, understandably, a person is more sensitive to trying to deceive the voters of his own hometown - in this case it seems - to deceive him. In any case, I am very confident that the Prime Minister will take advantage of the opportunity and the opportunity to prove himself against him, and that the investment will be promoted from 2022 in order of importance. I think it doesn't matter who the pro-government and opposition representatives are in a given term, we can agree on that and we need to explicitly support each other. This is important, because between 2010 and 2014, with the mayor of Mátészalka at the time, they kept making no-no-sounding, unfounded accusations at the front, when I yelled in 2010 and shouted loudly to try to intervene, the then Fidesz individual representative should try to do something, because I learned from inside information that later became justified that they would not start, and they would not build it until 2013 until Ököritófülpös, but they would put it back, that other Fidesz individual representatives with stronger powers of interest would enrich, grow, build and be beautiful. At the time, I kept hearing that I was supposed to have land on the trail, and I was preparing for land speculation. I'm telling you, I don't have enough land to lie down on the trail of the earth then or now. I don't have a square meter of land to bury me in if it's about that. These accusations were so unfounded. I asked the 26 settlements of the then multi-purpose small regional association to come to the government in a joint declaration, to start building the road as soon as possible, at least start working on the merits. It didn't happen. The mayor, with only five of them, a fidesz mayor took responsibility, took the liberty of signing this statement, but the large majority did not. But that's in the past, and for now, it seems like we can't change what we're thinking. Referring to Mr. Prime Minister's two-time promise within six months, in particular with regard to his promise on 4 May at the bell, the circumstances that strongly underpin the construction of the road, which I have just mentioned, I very much hope that it will begin as soon as possible. By the way, they look good, basically they look good, basically administrative, there would be little obstacle to the start. It is high time that the public procurement procedure was launched. This would, of course, require that this investment should finally take place before other regions, because I have had a feeling for a long time, about 20-25 years, that somehow people living in the Satmar region are considered by the current Hungarian government to be a multi-level citizen. When it comes to that, we always end up at the end of the line. When really significant, large investments take place, large investments in infrastructure, it never becomes anything. I could say the bell-mart railway line, by the way. In the 2010 campaign, János Fónagy came and promised the Bellers. What's happened since then? The Csenger-Mátészalka, Mátészalka-Nyíregyháza and the Mátészalka-Debrecen railway line have also fallen. Instead of building it, they'll even take down the little we have left. So it would be good to give back the faith of the Satmar people, and now we're finally moving forward in the order of importance, not backwards, and the regions that have been developed over the last few years, decades, and I'd like to urge you to be patient, and finally get this neighborhood on the M49 bypass road. This would not only be necessary for Mátészalka, Kocsord, Győrtelek, Ököritópülpös, Porcsalma, Pátyod and Csenger's main roads and roads to be free of burden, but also for commercial relations, for transport, for the delivery of agricultural products, for the integration of the whole region into Europe's bloodstream and for job creation. Otherwise, if this procurement procedure were to be stated as the main aspect would be that the future contractor should be able to work as much as possible among the unemployed and long-term unemployed who are resident in the region, and that only those who commit to this serious commitment can win, the years of the investment - as we are talking about multiannual investments - would be significantly reduced by the unemployment that is depressing the area. For the record, many hopeless Hungarian and Gypsy people and physical workers could also have meaningful, value-creating jobs and jobs for much more money than they now receive in public work. So much for the M49 road. [[20.00]] The other is an important and promised investment. It seems that the ominous day of May 4th brought not only the golden rain of May but also the promise of a bang. I was present and had very deep clues about several Prime Minister revelations, which I try to account for and confront the authorities in the next period. The other was the construction of the bell prison. I was very happy that we were very happy, and Jobbik did not go against the fact that in 2015 Csenger won the right and opportunity to build the local prison with eight other settlements. Now there's been a minor hiccup. We are confident that this will be resolved. I have tabled a budget amendment of HUF 11 billion in this respect. If roughly 102 billion is spent on nine prisons, then with a simple division, creating a minimum reserve, perhaps 11 billion can be built into the prison in Bell. Now the story is that the procurement procedure had to be declared ineffective because the bidders offered unrealistic prices. Indeed, rational management and aspects of public finance management require that the procedure is not successful in such a case, and that a new one be drawn up. Yeah, well, if that's all it is, then it's okay. But if the story is again that on this, otherwise, it is real - I say it is real, I believe it is not a lie - because of reason, the investment will be delayed again for long years, and again the Satmar region will be forced to swallow the frog that the runaways will still have to go under the heading, and we will be many again, then we can't agree with that. I trust the Prime Minister's promise and the resolve of the Minister of the Interior that another procurement procedure will be launched soon, and this will finally be effective, and we will be able to choose a serious contractor. All the more so, since here the recruitment of the 250-person Bv stock has begun. About 40-50 people were enrolled for training and education, so serious preparations have started, which have already taken up significant costs, and the municipality of Beller has done the necessary preparatory work, which has again cost the city's municipality considerable money. So I would very much like everyone to support the related budget amendment. Last but not least - I would say without the need for completeness - I also consider the development of the hospital in Mátészalka to be very important. A few weeks ago, I had the pleasure of having a meaningful dialogue with one of the leaders on a number of issues. I was curious, among other things, about the cost of replacing these with new and up-to-date tools and equipment. In this connection, I have a proposal of HUF 750 million, which would otherwise completely renew the equipment park and assets of the hospital in Mátészalka for at least a decade. With that kind of money, you'd have a lot of money on the fully digitized X-ray machine, new ultrasound equipment, replacing the outdated CT. It also includes an MRI, which is also not the two-forint category. And given that leading causes of death include cancers, and that they are exponentially affecting our neighborhood, in particular intestinal tumors are the main causes of death, the cost of intestinal diagnostics and cataract diagnostics, a consideration of HUF 30-30 million is included. I stress that this only means the complete modernisation of equipment and equipment. After all, we experienced in the previous cycle that we were repeatedly swallowed by frogs of not just any size, for example, when child care was cut off, when completely unwarranted bed number reductions were made, and a hospital with a large supply area, providing a very significant number of guests, began to be permanently and systematically dismantled. There we are now, ladies and gentlemen, and it would also be worth having meaningful dialogues on this, that, in the context of emergency child care, if a child in the vicinity of Mátészalka or Szalka is sick, he may receive a maximum of 24 hours of care. If the problem is greater and in 24 hours you cannot improve your condition or at least order your home treatment, your parents will have the opportunity to cure the child in Nyíregyháza the next time. For most parents, this is an amazing burden, not only because of the duration of the trip, but also because of the cost of the trip. But first, we have these very modern machines, tools and equipment, because in itself we would achieve that people in the region of Mátészalka and Satmar should not, say, travel to Nyíregyháza and Debrecen for expensive tests, Matthewsalka is perfectly capable of doing so, but this area should finally take its place and role, and not only the high-level hospitals and center hospitals should benefit from the greatest improvements. So I trust that in these amendments, the representatives of Szabolcs County will find nothing wrong, and aside from our daily party politics and other differences, they will be able to support this with a good heart, because these are absolutely professional proposals, there is no bad intentions, and this feeds on pure goodwill. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2017-05-17-126	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. Congressman Nándor Gúr, the representative of the MSZP is the first. Here.
u2017-05-17-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mihály Varga talked about predictability and security about 12 hours ago this morning. I would like to be reassured by Secretary of State Benő Banai in this regard, and to give me arguments as to, say, how predictability can be applied, for example, to the public workers, who, in contrast to their HUF 60 200 in 2010, which they took in net hands, today take 53,000 forints in hand. How can it be attributed to nearly 450 thousand people who receive pension-like benefits either as full or as full pensioners or as a result of your retirement, such as 28 500-50 thousand forints of pension and pension-like benefits? How can this be matched with the question of predictability, security? Or the predictability is that what happened last year can only make them worse. The other thing I would like to hear from you is that, in terms of welfare or health and education funding, you are constantly talking in the morning about adding additional resources to the system. I would like you to tell me in a fair manner what this situation looks like in terms of, say, 2010 and 2018 in proportion to GDP. I'll help you after that, if you can't put the story together at first, I just want to know how you see it, how you feel about it. My last such opening question is that, in the next hour, we can discuss how much Ripper will earn per minute if 60% of EU funds are to be spent on economic development, whether he can claim it or if there is already an idea. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2017-05-17-128	Thank you. Congressman László György Lukács, Jobbik, in two minutes.
u2017-05-17-129	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Yesterday I made you a promise that we would continue and deal with the M4 route, and I promised you data from here. In a previous written question, I asked him that, in the period of Abony-Törökszentmiklós and Armenek that had ceased under memorable circumstances, which perhaps my fellow Member, István Happy, could confirm, unfortunately, the construction was interrupted. We were talking about rising prices here. I asked how much it costs, and now János Fónagy takes it to HUF 97 billion. This also means a section between Abony-Szolnok bypass-Törökszentmiklós, Törökszentmiklós-Fegyvernek, now not in terms of motorways, but twice in terms of two lanes. I repeat, there was 97 billion forints planned. I would like to ask you with respect, especially with regard to the fact that the Secretary of State replied to me in the third quarter of 2017 as to where the budget in the draft budget for 2018 will account for the costs involved, since, in addition to the fact that it was the third quarter of 2017, the fourth quarter of 2019 was scheduled to be completed. So, logically, in 2018, there will be cost elements to be paid for in relation to this bypass. The interesting thing is that, by the way, about 60 billion forints of value are standing on their feet, rotting on their feet, and nature is spreading the built landmarks where they can spread them. The reason I'm asking you this is because this could be the only connection of the Great Community to the country's bloodstream, the people's dream for decades. Let me also share that even I have a decade-long dream. When I was riding on the hat rack of my father's yellow Wartburg at night, I was reassured that there would be a highway here shortly. [[20.10]] It's been about 27 years since I remember it, and nothing's happened. I ask with all due respect whether the people of the great community can count on this to be included in the budget in 2018 [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And if so, how much the government will spend on it. Thank you very much for your patience. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-17-130	Congressman Sándor Kovács, Fidesz, in two minutes.
u2017-05-17-131	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I am in a very uncomfortable situation, as Jobbik, thanks to the Good Lord, as a opposition party, has so much to do with individual Members summing up and telling their budget amendments in 16 minutes. With great respect, of course, I can only support any development, but let me ask myself that the area of Satmar would be at a disadvantage, since in the last few years billions and tens of billions of dollars have been invested in this hospital, for example, in terms of assets, with an investment of 1.1 billion dollars, honourable Member, so don't slip it. Of course, development is always available for all regions, as is the area of Szatmár. With regard to the motorway track, let me just remind you that the environmental permit is in place and not the design of the licensed design, so the first step will be to issue a public procurement to draw the licensed plan that can then be announced for implementation. And you were right about the prison stopping because of a public procurement problem. So don't make that misconception, as if the szabolcs-szatmar-bereg MEPs weren't doing anything, and the Satmar region was suppressed. My apologies, I just wanted to react briefly, because we have a tight date, and the pro-government representatives have to go through the budget chapters, and I have social policy as a member of the People's Welfare Committee. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-17-132	Thank you very much. [[For signal:]] I can see that Congressman Apáti has applied, but according to the house rules, only one candidate in a two-minute circle can say it, so I ask you to be patient; there will be another way, by the looks of it. But now it is up to the representative of Fidesz, Mr Mihály Witzmann. Here you go.
u2017-05-17-133	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Another year has passed, and it is spring again, and again we have the opportunity to discuss Hungary's budget for the next year in 2018 here in Parliament. And the fact that, following the traditions of previous years, next year's budget can already be adopted in the spring session, I think it will in any case increase predictability and predictability for families, businesses, municipalities and even public offices. This fact is also confirmed by the fact that the planned adoption of mid-June will be more than half a year for the Hungarian people, economic operators and municipalities, as well as for the public administration, to prepare for the positive changes in taxation, which are a fortunately declining trend, and for the legislative changes affecting 2018. From the perspective of the last 3-4 years, I think we can clearly say that in planning the central budget or amending the 2017 budget that we discussed yesterday, we no longer need to talk about where, how, and how much money the government is drawing from, as we used to do during socialist governments, but rather about who, who, who, what, and how much more. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the figures, I think we can safely say that Hungary's budget and economic position are stable and well-suited, and there are basically two reasons for this. One of the reasons is that, thanks to the Government's effective economic policy, the economy is doing well is creating more revenue for public finances than expected. The other reason, and I think, is that we may not always or may not always be able to talk about it properly or with enough emphasis, is that the government has done a great deal in recent years to reduce the grey and the black economy. Effective collection of tax revenues is not only government, but I think it is safe to say that it is also in the interests of the whole country. Over the last seven years, the government has taken a number of measures to reduce the scope of tax fraud and to create tax conditions that do not make taxpayers interested in devising. Not so long ago, the governments of Gyurcsány, Bajnai were merely passively watching tax evasion, and perhaps even it is not exaggeration to say that they tried to collect as much tax from honest taxpayers, Hungarian people and families as possible from tax revenues that were lost and lost. Because we all remember the threatening words of former left-wing Prime Minister Gordon Bajnai, who started his campaign by saying that it would hurt. On the other hand, the current government has taken strategic measures to promote the overall reduction of VAT fraud and the whitening and cleaning of the economy. If I may, I will, of course, try to list some specific government measures that have succeeded in taking decisive and effective steps to curb and reduce the black economy, without the need for completeness. Perhaps one of the most important measures is the supervision of the online tax authorities of the issue of cash registers by early September 2014. This measure alone allowed the state to generate some HUF 180-190 billion more VAT revenue. In this regard, we are now talking about the recognition of the bleaching effect of online cash registers by economic operators, as they are also interested in pure competition. In fact, there are sectors where the online cash register system has been explicitly requested in order to reduce tax evasion in the sector and the extent of these. Another important step was the establishment of an EKAER, a so-called electronic road traffic control system, operating from 1 March 2015 to effectively monitor the supply of goods by transport. It is known that the EKAER system provides for a reporting obligation for road transport activities involving vehicles subject to tolls, depending on their route. The system introduced results in an annual income of tens of billions of HUF, and the fact that this is the case is also apparent from the information provided by the National Tax and Customs Office, since the application of the system only results in an additional revenue of about HUF 60 billion based on the figures for 2016. The reduction of fictitious company formations was also an important objective in order to whiteen the economy. In order to achieve this, a legislative change has been made to the fact that from 1 January 2015 a monthly VAT declaration will apply to newly established enterprises. As a result, the company established with the intention of tax evasion can be discovered and screened much earlier in Hungary. Furthermore, from the same date, the possibility of annual VAT returns has ceased above HUF 50 million in revenue levels, instead a more frequent quarterly declaration has been introduced in order to detect possible abuses during the year. Although many opposition criticisms were received at the time of the integration of the tax and customs authorities, time has nevertheless confirmed the practicality and effectiveness of this fusional decision, since the integration of the tax and customs authorities has enabled the unification of the customer records of the two bodies, which has thus greatly facilitated the flow of information between tax and customs bodies, as well as significant acceleration in administrative processes. The introduction of the so-called domestic VAT summary as of 1 January 2013 has also played a significant role in the positive development of budgetary revenues, which must be completed by the seller and the buyer exercising the right to deduct VAT for all invoices where the amount of the overall turnover tax passed is equal to or greater than HUF 1 million. NAV can make effective use of the data generated for it either for risk analysis or for faster detection of invoicing chains. The measure was also used to whiten the economy, as a result of which it was introduced that, from 1 January 2013, taxable persons could pay up to HUF 1,5 million in cash per month as a consideration for a product or service. In addition, it has been a good decision to create the possibility of so-called reverse taxation in several sectors, with which effective and effective steps have been taken to reduce VAT fraud. It is also important to highlight the VAT reduction process that has been launched in recent years, with the result that the government has achieved a substantial step towards whitening a number of fraudulently infected sectors. As of 1 January 2014, it will be remembered that from 1 January 2014, live and half-carcases, and from 1 January 2015 additional large-scale animals, namely cattle, sheep and goats, as well as their slaughtered animals, and from 1 January 2016 pig meat and from 1 January 2017 for eggs and poultry, and from 2018 for fish, the VAT rate will be reduced from 27 per cent previously applied to 5 per cent. In view of the tax reduction trend over the past years, it is clear that the government is constantly examining the possibility of reducing the VAT in sensitive sectors and is expanding every year the range of products for which VAT reductions can effectively contribute to the clean-up of the Hungarian economy and, moreover, they can also serve to reduce retail expenditure. [[20.20]] Among the steps taken to clean up the economy, we can also mention the change of legislation that, from 1 January 2015, a registration obligation applies to those performing such activities in order to ensure effective control of the automated food-selling market without handling personnel. And further progress has also been made in recent years with the expansion of authorities such as the Food Chain Authority or even the Alien Police Authority, which can effectively assist the activities of the Tax and Customs Office by providing information. All these government measures I thought were important, honourable Members, because I believe that all these small steps have contributed to making the system of tax collection more efficient and fairer in Hungary. Dear Parliament, I think that in a sentence, perhaps, we can say that a good budget requires a successful economic policy and a successful economic policy requires an effective tax policy. Well, since 2010, the Government of Hungary has been a well-thought-out, conscious, adaptable to reality and the market environment and, perhaps, even more important, effective economic policy. Luckily, thanks to the successful economic policy of the civilian government, we now have a bad memory of the Hungarian economy, which has been inherited from the socialists and is in a state-to-state state-to-state state-to-state state-to-state state, a huge loan from the IMF at a panic-like rate, a government deficit that is constantly exceeding the Maastricht criteria, and a failure to fulfil obligations against Hungary as a result, or a ominously high unemployment, economic recession, and the hopeless debt of the state, local governments and Hungarian families. Unfortunately, under socialist governments, we also experienced that they could not or did not want to fight the black economy, and, for example, in 2006-2007 the loss of tax revenue represented around 7 percent of Hungarian GDP. Before 2010, these economic problems made everyday life of Hungary, the Hungarian economy, Hungarian families and Hungarian people difficult. Luckily, since then, as a result of a completely different, new approach to economic policy, we have managed to repay the IMF loan to the last cent, the deficit in public finances is now seven years below the expected level of 3 percent each year, unemployment has decreased from more than 12 percent to 4.3 percent, the economy is expanding, it is enough to think only of the positive news released yesterday, the 4.1 percent quarterly GDP growth, debt on a declining path again, exports and retail, growing opportunities for family and home creation, as well as falling taxes and rising wages today in Hungary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, as has always been the case in the last seven years, the government has presented a responsible, sound budget, which includes further tax reductions, but nevertheless does not jeopardise the deficit target or the reduction of public debt. To sum up, the budget for 2018 is, on the one hand, the budget of people living from work, which aims at full employment, and it also aims to create an opportunity for all Hungarians to take a step forward, thus further reducing taxes on labour and increasing wages. But it is also a family budget, as it creates new opportunities for Hungarian families through family taxation, the expansion of family tax incentives, the tax relief of first married people, tax reductions and the expansion of housing subsidies. And, of course, the security budget, because it spends about 25 percent more, nearly 100 billion forints more on public security and the protection of our borders. Therefore, I would like to ask with respect my fellow Members to support the adoption of next year's budget by their votes after the debate has taken place. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-05-17-134	Thank you very much. Congressman Sándor Szabó, a representative of the MSZP is coming. Here you go.
u2017-05-17-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about budgetary issues affecting local governments, but I would like to start by saying a few words about the budget in general. Unlike my fellow Member, we see the situation a little differently. Mr. Congressman outlined how well the government has been performing for six years, and we see that Hungary's Government is trying to strengthen it, but in a regional comparison, the economic situation of Hungary or the financial growth of Hungarian citizens seems to have increased in the previous years. There is a bad reputation for Hungarian economic policy at international level, which, in order to increase Hungarian ownership rates, is aimed at bleeding out foreign-owned companies in certain sectors, and in fact, if I take it strictly, there has been no serious capital raising in recent years unless we talk about raising capital from banks. The budget can only be in a good position because less money has been spent on health care, education and social benefits, so in general it can be said that the next year's budget will continue to serve the government's rule, in this respect it is unfair and a hotbed of corruption. What concerns local governments: we see that since 2010 Fidesz has been in government power with a clearer aim of concentration of power, limiting the control of government activities, limiting the scope of the powers. This process has been taking place for many years in the case of only one branch of power, which still has a somewhat real counterweight, which is designed to represent and promote local communities, with a continuous drastic reduction of their tasks and powers, reducing the financial resources needed for benefits. Financial resources for the performance of municipal tasks have been narrowing for years in a very well-tracked manner under current budgetary laws. This is due not only to the transfer, nationalisation, centralisation or whatever we call it, but also to the lack of real value conservation of the resources necessary for the remaining provision of tasks. In order to carry out the tasks of local authorities, the central budget, as we see, would provide HUF 695 billion in 2018, and if we look at it, during the last socialist governments, this figure was HUF 1164 billion, which shows a 41 percent decrease compared to 2010. According to the government plans, the general basic and urban management tasks of the municipalities should be resolved from almost the same amount as in 2017. It can be seen that support for public education, social, child welfare and children's meals and cultural tasks is somewhat more than last year, but this is mainly due to the financing of sectoral wage policy measures. On the other hand, a significant reduction in the allocation of additional operational support for municipalities is reduced by 23 percent, which amounts to HUF 14.1 billion. Since 2013, municipalities have been financed through task-based funding, task-based support schemes, but the funding structure is not fundamentally different from the allocation of funds established and applied in 2013. Some budgetary subsidies for municipalities will also be reduced by the so-called set-off in 2018, which means that municipalities with lower local tax revenues regrettably need a certain percentage of additional resources, as this is the only way they can carry out their tasks, and settlements with major business taxes, typically metropolitan cities, which could use this money for development, but they will receive a corresponding withdrawal. In our view, the system, which was introduced in 2013, called task financing, serves only as an excuse to withdraw funds from municipalities, and does not constitute a new thought-out or uniform funding system compared to the previous normative financing system. This forced withdrawal of government funds will continue in 2018, and in a very short sense, we can say that we see and see that the government has taken away much more resources from the municipalities than they have taken on. Otherwise, the basic principles of task funding are flawed, and there is no definition of the level, level of performance of tasks, minimum level of performance of tasks in each sector. The calculated funding figures do not cover the actual costs, unfortunately each task must be supplemented by its own resources, if the municipalities have money for this. Typically, ad hoc and unpredictable inter-annual funding is carried out for certain tasks, which, mutatis mutandis, renders the safe, planned municipal operation almost entirely impossible. The task financing system would be normal, transparent or planned against what has been done so far if the mandatory and voluntary task of the municipality was defined at the legislative level, based on which the basic level of supply, quantity of tasks would be established, and on this basis, a single, normal and predictable source could be provided, knowing the territorial, regional unit costs of the tasks. [[20.30]] The government's wage policy is also controversial, as it requires and orders, but it does not give its source to the municipalities, but keeps promising. I asked myself a number of oral questions, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior constantly replied that, in the event that the municipalities needed additional resources to pay, because by raising the guaranteed minimum wage or minimum wage, the municipalities were in a kind of difficult situation and did not receive any funds, then the state would give this to the municipalities. It's been a promise ever since, and that's not the kind of source the municipalities have received. No one disputes the urgent need to increase the lowest wages in the region. Among the Visegrád Four, wages are the lowest among us, with average wages being 30 percent behind. However, as the small and medium-sized enterprises have suffered, the municipalities suffer, as I have said, because they cannot clearly meet the mandatory wage increase or, if they can, they can do it either at the expense of their mandatory duties or other tasks. I mean, like I said, there's no extra funding for the municipalities. 230,000 public employees work on minimum wage or guaranteed minimum wage, and the wage shift affects more than 470 people. At the same time, we see that the pay table for civil servants and civil servants has remained unchanged for the ninth year, regardless of the fact that they are in continuous negotiations. The Public Service Workers' Union is constantly asking, and we, too, in the Parliament, have interpelled on several occasions, asking you a question about this matter. However, we do not see any progress. We see that two thirds of the 30 thousand government officials have not received a penny in nine years as a wage increase. What we do see, however, is that the Chancellor has announced that no more state money will be expected in the future, while, by the way, state officials have received a 30% wage increase. It's not that they got it, we're not sorry, we're not worried about them, we're worried about the others. We are speaking for them, as are the trade unions. If we look at the social and child welfare sector in the municipalities, we find that while the municipalities have had a serious process of centralization in all areas, this is the area in which a kind of decentralisation is taking place by the government. As a matter of fact, since March 2015, the municipalities themselves have had to work out how and how they provide financial resources to families in need. As of 1 March 2015, the municipalities themselves had to determine what kind of municipal aid was granted, since the government had taken away social assistance, public health care and financial resources from the municipalities. The problem with this is, of course, that in the case of more than 3,000 municipalities or municipalities, many municipalities are unable to do so, and cannot solve it. How can you solve it, since solving their basic tasks is also a problem. There are, of course, some major cities, including the city of Szeged, which, by the way, provided in this year's own budget an extra 500 million in support of people in need as a social framework, but it is obvious, and we all know that there are very few cities that can do this. There are many question marks even in the financing of the programme of modern cities. Since summer, the program's cost requirements have increased by several hundred billion forints. It is increasingly clear that many key projects can only be launched in the last third of the grant cycle, as we see, from 2018 onwards. Unfortunately, the fact that Brussels continues to dispute the EU's funding distribution system based on a public tender evaluation system can have a serious impact on the full launch of EU programmes, no matter how much they like to praise it. As regards public education, only briefly, a new situation emerged in the municipalities from 1 January 2017. In the past, you have been able to take away the right to maintain schools from the municipalities, and from 1 January 2017 you have the right to operate, so the municipalities no longer have schools. You said you wanted to build a cheaper, better, more efficient system. That didn't happen either. There is no consideration of the relationship between parents, teachers, and children in local communities. All in all, what I can say is that, as far as the municipalities are concerned, we see that the local government as a spirituality is not important to you. The settlements are being liquidated, and I am not the only one saying that, as the municipal associations led by their fellow Members of the Fidesz say. We therefore wish to make an amendment. I will wonder, in particular, if Mr Happy, if you will support our amending proposal to increase the functioning of the municipalities. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-17-136	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, State Secretary Péter Benő Banai has applied for a speech. Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-17-137	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to respond briefly to the suggestion of Congressman Szabó. First of all, you said that the tear is growing. This is not the first time we have heard this in today's debate, but with concrete facts and figures, no one has ever been able to support it. But Congressman also said that the perception of Hungarian economic policy is wrong. Well, we had a long discussion about that, too. We have mentioned several times the judgement of money market investors, we have repeatedly mentioned the economic policy projections of the Hungarian economy by international organisations, and the forecasts of the Hungarian economy are provided by the analytical institutes. I indicate that in these projections an increase of around 3-4 percent is expected for 2017 and 18 percent. But if you really thought that Hungarian economic policy was wrong, there would be no significant demand for Hungarian sovereign debt and no real economic investors would consider the situation of the Hungarian economy predictable and stable by their decision. Allow me to list some real economic investors who have judged the state of the Hungarian economy, what they can expect and decided on investments. Let me explain some large investment decisions over the past period: Mercedes Benz HUF 490 billion, Samsung HUF 100 billion, Procter and Gamble HUF 55 billion, Budapest Airport HUF 50 billion, Thyssenkrupp HUF 41 billion, Bosch HUF 36 billion, Becton Dickinson HUF 30 billion, ZF Hungary HUF 31 billion, Lego HUF 30 billion, Hell 30 billion, FAG HUF 25 billion, Nestlé HUF 20 billion. And I could continue the long line of serious and, as you have heard, significant international companies that not only look at Hungarian economic policy, but also look at those countries where they could invest, and for some reason they chose Hungary. So I think... [[Sándor Szabó intervenes.]] Congressman, I hear you. With respect, I wish to continue in the Hungarian Parliament the rule that I will speak to him when I get the floor from the Honourable President. I can hear what you're saying. Yeah, in a market economy, there are companies that are going down. No doubt that's true. I could also ask if there is a country in Europe where jobs in a market economy will not be lost. I could also ask how much it was before 2010. Just, Congressman, I would like to ask you to take stock of the jobs that are being lost and the jobs that are being created. My statement, and not only my statement, not only the statement of the HCSO, but also the statement of Eurostat, must always be mentioned because you can see public data that the salvo of jobs that are being lost and created is positive. Permanently positive, long-standing positive. New jobs have been created for 500,000 people since 2010. As regards the operation of the municipal system: Mr President, you mentioned the central budgetary support that municipalities had received before 2010, before 2010. Indeed, if you compare it to that, there were years where the funding of the municipal system was reduced. You're absolutely right, Congressman. But let's just put it this way that the assignments have changed. Let us put it next to him, as you have said, that the task of public education is not performed by the local authorities, but by the state. Let us also add that a number of municipal administrative tasks are now carried out by government agencies. Let us also add that the maintenance of hospitals has been transferred from the municipalities to the State. This change of mandate was coupled with a municipal debt transfer. You can remember that the municipal system was freed from some HUF 1300 billion of debt. This debt transfer was accompanied by a change in the task financing system. And, Congressman, I am arguing with you that this has led to an unpredictable situation for the municipalities. [[20.40]] Again, I'm asking you to look at the public records. Take a look at the fact that the municipal system has typically accumulated very serious deficits before 2010 and that after 2010 we see surpluses. We see a surplus in 2016 as well, and we expect a surplus in the proposal submitted in 2018. This surplus, true, is largely linked to development resources, government advances related, for example, to the "Modern Cities" programme or the territorial development operational programme mentioned by you. But again, the municipal system is stable in terms of financial data. In 2018, the financing of the central budget will increase while the tasks remain unchanged. Congressman, I'll draw your attention to this. In the next year's bill, we expect an 8.5 percent increase in central budget support, and I assume that the economic expansion that we calculate may be above 4 percent will result in a substantial increase in the revenues of local business tax. I therefore believe that these macro-economic changes, in addition to these central fiscal financing changes, will be able to preserve the stable functioning of the local government system in 2018. Finally, I have to say that you highlighted the issue of minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, yes, the central budget provides support to municipalities where the extra expenditure on the increase of the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage at municipal level is not financed by the reduction of the social contribution tax and the financial situation of which requires this central budget support. In this respect, the government has adopted a normative set of rules to be applied to all in a uniform manner. On this basis, I propose to the honourable Parliament that it discuss and support next year's draft budget law, taking into account the situation of the municipalities. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-17-138	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The representative of Fidesz, Mr Zsolt Tiffán, is the next pre-notified speaker. Here you go.
u2017-05-17-139	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Once again, one year after the debate on the previous year's budget, I speak on behalf of the good citizens of Harkány. That is because, first of all, I would like to thank the Hungarian Government for its help and support so far, which helped the town of Harkány and the bath in Harkány with HUF 300 million in 2015 and HUF 1 billion in 2016, but the development of the bath cannot wait for itself. In the bath in Harkány, which is a long-running bath, about 2.5 billion forints are needed to renovate the buildings and the pools and the spa pools that we had designed a long time ago. I think that this money could go to a good place because Harkány town's medicinal water, and I think it's known to all of us, perhaps next to the Dead Sea in the world of psoriasis healing is probably the best water, and more and more people are visiting this spa again. I believe that if the development of this spa can happen, there will be a development in the town of Harkány that will have positive effects for decades. But when we read the draft budget of the Government of Hungary, we can also see that the budget for 2018 is the budget of the working people. Harkány town is surrounded by an area called the Ormany, where unemployment is extremely high. We are talking about multigenerational unemployment. These villages, where these people live, are very close to Harkány, so it is physically possible for these people to come to the city and work there either in the spa or in related hotels and the service industry. I have always been committed to representing this poor country, the Ormany. That is why we created and therefore take the Ancient-Drava programme, but in order for people living there to live and work properly, jobs are needed. That is why I consider it extremely important to develop the bath in Harkány. Because when we develop the bath in Harkány and we can develop it with this HUF 2.5 billion, we practically not only develop the bath itself, but also the ancillary services, the hotel industry, the service industry and everything. According to our modest estimates, according to the modest estimates of Harkányi and Harkányi entrepreneurs, if this development takes place, we can create over a thousand jobs in this spa town. In the spa town of Baranya County, it is the only spa town with 20,000 beds. So if we are talking about tourism, and let's talk about tourism, which is one of the main industries in the southern Baranya region, let's just think that wine tourism in Villány is now a very big guest, and Siklós is also able to produce a huge number of guests with cultural tourism; there is the Ormanship, which can attract a sufficient number of guests with ecotourism, then there is the centre of this whole place, the owner and also the medically important centre of Harkány. I think that when we talk about Harkány, we are talking about the southern Baranya region itself, and when we are talking about tourism, tourism in this region, which requires and can create jobs, we can talk about that here not only one day because of wine, or not just because of the bath or three days because of ecotourism, but because of the group of tourist attractions in the whole region, we are talking about a destination that keeps tourists there, whether domestic or foreign tourists, and we are creating jobs for all of this. So I think it is a cardinal question that, in order to develop Harkány, the Harkány bath, the government should be kind enough to thank us for having received this HUF 1.3 billion, and we should use this HUF 2.5 billion to develop the bath. Once again, thanks for all the help I have had so far, I respectfully ask the Hungarian Government to provide this HUF 2.5 billion in the future in order to develop Harkány's bath. Thank you very much for your kind attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-17-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with the list of speakers that have been announced. Mr. Tamás Pintér, representative of Jobbik. Here.
u2017-05-17-141	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, So at the end of the speeches, I would like to focus on my increasingly difficult hometown, Dunaújváros, because for some reason it seems to us that the Fidesz government treats this region as a black sheep. Above all, however, I would like to say in general with the criticisms of the budget over the last 12 hours that it is clear to us that the draft budget before us should have been drawn up in a completely different way. For years, Fidesz has been building its policy on a budget that has been trying to make it a virtual reality for people for years. That's why the country is where it is, by the way. There's a little poem by Dezső Kosztolányi, let me tell you. And this is what it's like to be surprised at the cocaine guy? Think about the cocaine, too. With this little poem, Kosztolányi managed to put what is Hungary's real problem and ask how our country has come to this point. When we ask this question, it's not enough to analyze the budget of a year, because it doesn't tell us the real reasons. [[20.50]] Because since the change of regime, people have become accustomed to having, in fact, three types of budgets. There's a pep rallyer, there's a buddy's budget, and finally, before the parliamentary elections, there's a campaign budget. And the pitiful budget is what they used to eviscerate people. They did not spend enough money to finance public institutions, trade unions representing workers, or even vulnerable pensioners.Before 2010, they took away the 13th month's pension, and after 2010, they achieved that pensioners could only make a small living from what they had left. In fact, they have also taken away early retirement pensions for those who are about to retire, which we would like to urge to take back this. But why this previous budget? It's the pep rally budget that sets the budget for so-called buddies. For example, this makes Lőrinc Mészáros rich, so Antal Rogán can fly a helicopter, and therefore Andy Vajna can also be a casino power. It's a buddy's budget, and Fidesz is filling his wallet with his own crapper. The third kind of budget, which is also known by Auntie Bözsi from the show, as is the campaign budget coming before the changes under all governments. This also means a minimum pension increase, Elisabeth's voucher, if the numbers will stand like that and try to fool people with this kind of horse-zung. This is the budget that the 20 billion-dollar propaganda industry will sell as the greatest thing in the world. And all three budgets have the same form, all of which have the same characteristics. None of them actually protect the interests of the Hungarian people. However, the amendments we have tabled are in the interests of thousands of people. In the event of their adoption, it would ensure the development of our country, our region. I would like to say that before entering the political field, I was working at a school, teaching, and the building there is clearly visible that there are several educational buildings in Dunaújváros that are in a deplorable state. In one of my amendment proposals, I asked for the renovation of the façades of these schools, as students and teachers who study there deserve to be able to study and work under normal conditions, and, of course, energy-saving solutions could save the city. But then we also need to speak about St. Pantaleon's Hospital in Dunaújváros, whose windows are in a life-threatening state, and we do not want patients there to suffer further injuries. The situation of public lighting in our city is particularly low in the winter months: this has been experienced by Members from several news broadcasts, as the media has reported on several occasions about the unsustainable conditions there. Because of a corruption case, the level of public lighting in Dunaújváros has been reduced by a third, which puts people, our children, our parents and everyone there at constant risk of accidents. That is why I would ask my fellow members of the Government to support my proposal to improve public lighting in Dunaújváros, as the people who live there deserve more than the current situation. And not only for pedestrians, but also for motorists, it is Dunaújváros, because in addition to driving in the streets in a dim way because of the street lighting shit, they even have to fight the potholes. In addition, this was proposed on the two main roads of Dunaújváros, which is why I proposed that the two main roads of the city be fully renovated. In addition to Dunaújváros, it is very important to pay attention to other settlements, for example, in Adony, children in the absence of zebras and beacons are in great danger in two places, and in Rácalmás sidewalks and the main road may even cause accidents. At the end of what I have to say, I would also like to ask the pro-government representatives a rhetorical question about what budget they will support, what budget they would like to adopt this year. Is it this pitiful, electoral, or buddies who fatten up, or something that actually protects the interests of the Hungarian people? Do you wish to reject our proposals for improvement again this year, or are you able to decide in the interests of the Hungarian people? If this is the case of the latter, please support my amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-17-142	Thank you very much. It's a two-minute drive, but on behalf of the government, Secretary of State Banai has applied for a statement. You have the floor, please.
u2017-05-17-143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I feel once again that I must respond to these comments made by Mr Tamás Pintér. I'm trying to quote you precisely, Congressman, you said that the government is drawing a virtual picture in front of the population. [[Tamás Pintér: Reality!]] Virtual reality. Thank you very much for the clarification. Congressman, allow me to ask you about the relationship between virtuality and reality. You said he taught at school. Then I'll ask you if you've received a wage increase since 2013. I could ask you if you see a smaller amount in your bills than you did in the past. I could ask you if your net income has increased or not in 2016 due to a reduction in the deficit rate. If you answer yes to these, then to me that means that the economic policy and the figures that we present in the budgetary debate are valid in reality and in the life of everyday life. So it does not exist that all the statistical data on gross wage growth, which is about net earnings growth, is about the growth of real earnings, is not valid in everyday life, it simply cannot be. The other thing that Congressman is saying, allow me to ask you what you mean - a pitiful budget. We have a 1414-page document ahead of us. I would ask you to show me the page, the part in which the pliability of the people can actually be seen in next year's draft budget law. Campaign budget. We talked a lot about the number of public finances in Hungary in the year of the elections. In view of this, I ask and look to the countries of Europe whether a 2.4 percent deficit target can be called a campaign budget. Shouldn't we be talking about the fact that there is an economic growth that, in addition to the stability of public finances, allows additional expenditure and tax reductions to be met? I think, and not only do I think so, but many people think that the performance of the Hungarian economy is the basis for the fact that next year people from work and families can be in a better financial situation than in 2017. Finally, Dunaújváros: I agree with the Member that we have a number of tasks ahead of us in this country. You can always spend more and more on road renovations, improving public lighting. One of my claims is that these steps, these tasks, will be solved in proportion to the performance of the economy. My statement is that both Dunaújváros and other cities with county rights have additional resources thanks to real, non- virtual economic growth. Dunaújváros can also implement developments that it has not been able to make in the previous 25 years, and this can be actually financed by HUF 150 billion on the budget of the Modern Cities programme next year, or by an additional EUR 100 billion on operational programmes, not virtually. I therefore propose that the Honourable Parliament vote on the proposal for next year, also considering these. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-17-144	Thank you. Two-minute circle; Congressman Sándor Szabó, MSZP!
u2017-05-17-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Just a few words about what you responded to my speech. I do not know where the Secretary of State lives, and I would like to ask you to go to the rural municipalities. Local municipal authorities are in a very bad situation. Speak to the Association of Municipal Governments, its president - Jenő Schmidt, you know - and talk to György Gémesi, go to the meeting of the County City Association. [[Peter Benő Banai: I was there.]] Then you should know exactly and see that there are very poor financial conditions in the municipalities. In connection with my district, I will not mention the name of the settlement on purpose, so that, God forbid, something happens to him, they keep saying that he had to ask for money to pay for his mandatory duty, that is, to have a public lighting near the 43rd highway. Do you think the situation of the municipalities is that good? You just told the congressman to live in reality. I'd like you to live a little bit in reality, too. I'd like you to take a look at these things. [[21.00]] With all due respect to your knowledge, I believe that the paper can handle everything, but you insist on going to the land to the municipalities, see that you have been able to draw significantly more resources from the settlements since 2013 than the state has taken over. This is constantly moaned by the municipalities, and this is an ongoing problem for the municipalities. That is why I say it, and I say it now, that the local government, as such, is not important to you, and that the local government is being disbanded. Thank you.
u2017-05-17-146	Now, after having been culturally told each other where the other two-minute speeches were triggered by these warning words. So now Congressman Pintér, two minutes from Jobbik. Here you go.
u2017-05-17-147	Thank you very much for the floor. Minister of State has asked me to live in reality, but if you have asked me what I mean by virtual reality, I mean, for example, the great benefit of the state and the government in terms of forinting, because, for example, this is what they want to sell as a savior to the thousands of foreign exchange crooks in trouble. I would just like to give my own example, for example, that my currency loan was more than doubled after the so-called blessed forint. He jumped more than double! I didn't feel the HUF 1000-2000, a few thousand forints of the raise, nor did I feel the 1-2 thousand forints of the reduction in the rent that the government was trying to ease back then. With the forints, they took almost all my money. But while we are talking about the pitiful budget, I would like to say that the early retirement that you have taken away has put thousands of people in the same situation in Hungary that has forced people to stop spending their well-deserved pensions even with their illness, and they must continue to work. That's what I call a pitiful budget. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-17-148	Thank you. Congressman Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz, in two minutes!
u2017-05-17-149	Thank you very much for the floor. My apologies to the Fidesz speakers, I will be very quick, I just wanted to respond in any way to the municipal comment. I think that everyone can make criticisms about the operation of the local government sector, but not my fellow Members in the benches of the MSZP. In 2002, when the first Orbán government gave you the opportunity, it was 250 billion, if I recall correctly, the indebtedness of the municipal sector. Then after a successful eight-year-old municipal government policy, which you have implemented, this has increased to 1350 billion. In Europe, it was an unprecedented and historic act on the part of the civilian government to take this debt completely off the shoulders of the municipalities. Allow me to have a personal experience. I was Vice President of the General Assembly of the municipality of Somogy County when our 25 billion county budget suddenly suffered nearly 13 billion - if I remember correctly, 12,6 billion - withdrawals. In the case of a county municipality with 4 000 employees, I think it is possible to imagine the trauma and difficulty that this has caused the county municipality to function, because you have done so, my fellow socialists, that the tasks have been constantly increased and that the funding combined with this has been reduced to a very brutal degree. Thank you very much. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2017-05-17-150	Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Kovács, Fidesz Group, will be speaking.
u2017-05-17-151	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I need to talk about amending the budget for social and child welfare services for 2018. First of all, let me talk about the introduction of a social assistance programme launched by an EFOP programme in a very awaited and starting academic year in September 2018, because a community experience can be in the child's life, and unfortunately, it can also give rise to aggression and other behavioural disturbances that can develop into drug use later on. So I think that we are introducing a very important service from 2018. However, other measures will be launched in the field of child protection in 2018, as it will set up an integrated legal protection service from ministerial resources, and will strengthen the number of this service by five, since one and a half counties have been allocated to one person, and this will increase to two people in every county and in the capital, as I believe that these integrated legal protection tasks are very important in child protection and in the right of the child. I have to mention the 1997 XXXI. by law, the increase in the number of persons in special care homes and special housing homes, as we meet with a special group where children in foster care should go to institutions, despite their best intentions, on the basis of the decision of the social services office or guardians. So the government's action is also responsible for the number and cost of these children's homes, special homes. It increases the care fee by 5 percent, with an increase of HUF 1 billion of HUF 900 million for 53,709 people. The 2018 Budget Act deals with the care of persons with disabilities, as, in addition to a rehabilitation and disability benefit, it introduces an exceptional disability procedure, when the client's quality of life, from a rehabilitation point of view, after 36 months, has a special option that, if there is no health damage, but in any case keeps him in care. This means about 4-5 thousand people and billions of HUF in 2018. However, we also need to talk about civil society organisations, which are specifically mentioned, which, in addition to actually carrying out their civil society organisation tasks, unlike NGOs, NGOs managed by Soros, also have a task to perform, and other wage supplements associated with these tasks are awarded by the government to civil society organisations in a separate chapter to ensure the benefits they receive in the various institutions. With the funding of sign language interpretation, it supports disability, the provision of elementary visual rehabilitation services with HUF 100 million, the increased support of the autistic and serious disabled people's care center, the Fecske program, the bus program, the parents who care for the disabled, various professional programs, but we can also talk about dog training. I think that the time is very short, but the 2018 budget in the social policy and child protection systems uses separate chapters to tighten up that particular social network. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2017-05-17-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Teleki, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2017-05-17-153	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Yesterday, too, I spoke to the law establishing the budget, and there I also told the Secretary of State what shortcomings I was experiencing in the 2018 budget. I don't want to repeat myself, but I'm sure I'm also going to say the things I listed yesterday, and what I would like to add, I would also like to talk about. I said that you have adopted the national Roma strategy and said that the European framework strategy is also adopted for the first time in Europe, and that four of the main priorities are being applied which are in any event complex in dealing with the situation of Gypsy in Hungary. That is okay, because I think that without a concept, it is impossible to set goals that can be respected. Of course, you always have to assign deadlines, responsibilities and resources. At this time, however, I do not see those responsible or the allocation of the budget in this programme. Here's four areas, Mr. Secretary, in case you're not in the picture. One is education, the other is employment, as well as housing and health care. These are the four main priorities of the national Roma strategy, and I see in these four areas that I would like to say a few things in every case that you said we should point out where there is a fall-off increase. In education, it can be said that the situation of Roma seems to have fallen, especially in the medium-level education system and higher education. This can be said in particular because in the various scholarships - almost all Roma people unfortunately need to receive scholarships - you can see that the numbers are constantly decreasing every year, not only because fewer people want to claim this form, but also because there are not enough resources and they have received a letter that they cannot support scholarships because of a lack of funds. It will therefore become clear to me, but I also think that for applicants, there is not enough resources to try to encourage Roma students in the same way that society would like to have as many intellectuals as possible in Hungary's Roma society. [[21.10]] So in this, I think you do not want to be sufficiently involved in a European-level politicalisation and representation system, because you do not want Hungary to have a society within Hungarian society that also represents the intellectual layer in this country. So why don't you want the Roma young people who want to go to college and college, why don't you want to support them so that they can finish their college and university studies in higher education? In addition, I think what I have already said is very important that you have invested a lot in the kindergarten system, and I myself say that I am in favour of you, that kindergarten care is free of charge from the age of three. But, Mr. Secretary, your other leg is missing from this system, where is the situation where, say, you could give the amount of beds to the children? Because they still cannot take children in sufficient numbers in different eastern regions at the age of three, because they cannot lay them, therefore, without a bed, parents cannot avail themselves of what the other law allows them to leave and study from the age of three. When will there be enough beds, room for the children to take care of the kindergarten you provide - I'll say it again: very well - can you use it? Because in that case, I think it will be worth nothing if it continues to be so, that the number of seats will not be increased in kindergarten institutions. The other very important part is that you have launched a school program, in the last few weeks and months a school application has been announced again, which is very important, and I see that there are funds in there for 2018. The only problem, Mr. Secretary of State, is that so far they can finance some 60-70 school programmes, and the same situation as I have already said is that Roma intellectuals cannot grow out if they continue to do so, because in areas where these school programmes should otherwise be in place, they are missing in the area because parents cannot finance their children to attend teachers, so the school programme is essential, if you like it. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State whether they wish to invest more money in the school programme within the amount shown, and, once again, it is good that by the end of 2017 they have re-entered a source that will certainly give them an opportunity, but it is not planned for 2018, and it is not written down anywhere that a top-open system or budget will be set up, because I would be confident that if there were a top-up system on this issue, that they can turn as much as they need, but I don't see it, and that is quite a problem. So the school programs, I think, if you want children or parents to be put in a position to predict their children's long-term thinking in education, I would ask you to review whether there are enough resources in the 2018 budget for this part. In employment, I think that what I read in this opinion, from the 2018 budget, is also an entry on page 40 that, I think, pricks everyone's eyes, spots them, that is, vocational training centres. It is written in black in white that the source will not be enough, but it is also described, of course, that if necessary, then yes, they will add an additional source that is necessary, called a top-open budget. Mr Secretary of State, this would be very much needed, since adult education, vocational training - I mentioned it yesterday too, I would like to mention it now - is a cruel milestone, because if these adult training and vocational training centres will not be invested in a source that shows that people will be able to have different trainings and career opportunities from public employment, they will be trapped in employment forever, so they will be trapped in this public employment trap. Therefore, it is also your responsibility that a person should not be involved in a public employment system for five to six years or even ten years, working two to three months, going out of the system, but that we should try to give him a basic training, a profession, or even two professions that can put him in a competitive position. Because with these numbers, as you've described, quite rightly, this budget probably doesn't cover the kind of adult training that you've planned - but why don't you put enough resources there to cover it? I do not see, therefore, that from the public employment trap in which many people are involved, they are able to get out. I would also like to add that, as in the kindergarten system, I am not saying that this is not necessary, so that someone does not say that I think this is wrong, but I do say that if for several years or even a decade there is nothing else to do but be in public employment. It is therefore essential that adult vocational training be applied and that resources be included that will certainly help to get to the transition, regular and primary labour market. Moreover, Mr State Secretary, there have been many attempts to put the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises in a position. In this budget, no matter how I look at it, I don't see that small and medium-sized enterprises are in a position. Some percent is indeed rising, but it is not enough to put small and medium-sized enterprises in a position to live everyday life without having to send people away from that small number tomorrow or the next day. This is also true of many Roma entrepreneurs, because many of them are small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and there is very often no source of tender or support to which they can relate. So this is another part of the employment part of what you want to do in this. I mentioned education and employment from the national Roma framework strategy. I've told you about housing many times what the problem is. They always talk about the previous eight years when the socialists, so we were on the government, and they said how little money there is to eliminate the Roma settlements. Secretary of State, show me a line in this budget where there is money to eliminate the Gypsy settlements. Not little, therefore, as we have received criticism, but there is no source at all, I have not seen how to use this tool. Why am I saying this? Once again, I say what Sándor Szabó said to my fellow Member, to show where we can see the decline, that, Mr State Secretary, there are 650 gypsy colonies in Hungary today, once again: 650 gypsy colonies, 120 thousand Roma live in extreme poverty, one could also say that they are in poverty. I do not see that the complexity that would be necessary is that his employment leg, his housing leg, his health leg were assigned to it. Of course, I also miss that Flórian Farkas, who is your Prime Minister's Commissioner, is not here at the budget and does not tell me how he sees it. If he says he sees this budget as good, then maybe I wouldn't argue, because I'm saying... [[Dr. László György Lukács intervenes.]] What I don't know is why he's not in jail, please ask someone else. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But one thing is certain: I miss him, not because I miss him in my life, but because I miss him because at this point on the agenda or at this law his opinion would be important, because the 800 thousand people of the Hungarian Gypsy are curious about how his future will turn out, and from this budget we cannot see it, and I am sure he doesn't see how it will turn out either. But it is also true of Felix the Wolf, who is a spokesperson for this Parliament. Returning to the budget, this is my biggest problem in housing, Mr. Secretary of State. I will not go into the municipal tenements and other phenomena that deserve to be mentioned, I ask only one thing: what will happen to the 120,000 people living in deep poverty, living in poverty in the Gypsy settlements, the 650 gypsy settlements I mentioned. I do not see how the programme that has been announced as a national framework strategy or announced as a European framework strategy will touch these Roma. One more thing for this housing: if you do not try to deal with this issue in a complex way, the problem will not only be what is the next part of what I have to say: how the health situation of the gypsies develops, we have to say that it is not the 8-10 years that you can see that a Roma in Hungary will die eight years before a non-Roma, even though the non-Roma has a very bad situation compared to the European average, Mr. State Secretary, there is no chance that people will live more than 50 to 55 years. [[21.20]] Do you take responsibility for the fact that tens of thousands of people die prematurely just because they don't feel government responsibility? I think that you cannot take on such responsibility, and on the contrary, you must, and the Prime Minister's Commissioner must play a role in this, let us say that he has not worked very hard in the last three years, but perhaps now, if you look at the record, you will be able to take advantage of my sentences or your thinking that something really needs to be done in this, if you see it that way. The last question is health prevention. I think that it would be necessary everywhere, because the situation in Hungary today is because I do not see that in Hungary, besides healing, there is an emphasis on prevention. Whether my fellow Member Luke, or anyone else, is a opposition Member, I think he will talk, but I would like to say one sentence to that effect that we feel exponentially that we do not have prevention. My last thought - because I'm sure Nándor Gúr is already watching - is institutional systems. Secretary of State, you have abolished the Hungarian Gypsy Foundation for the Gypsies and have not created anything for it, have terminated the National and Ethnic Minorities Office, have not created anything for it, have abolished the Foundation for National and Ethnic Minorities, have not created anything for it. Civilians cannot be sufficiently supported, and I see once again the desensitization of national and Roma civil society organisations every day, knock themselves out, go to court to submit their registration, because they simply cannot sustain themselves. I really don't have time for local governments, just one thought. You are not trying to handle the situation of local national authorities, regional national authorities, seriously enough in the budget. But there's only one good thing, and that's task-based support. Dear Secretary of State, Task-based support is a very good tool to see how much they get when they carry out tasks. Only the point system and access is a political instrument, I think, and in this you have a responsibility to invent a system instead of this task-based support, which in any case says that yes, if it is not used as a political instrument, but as a real instrument, it is possible to move forward in this local government. So the situation of the municipalities themselves is catastrophic, the situation of minority self-governments is the same at local level, whether the cities with county rights are the same at minority self-governments, minority self-governments or even smaller settlements. Thank you very much for your attention. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-05-17-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-17-155	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Among the priority areas, next year's budget for catching up, which covers more areas, spends 80.7 billion forints more resources than in 2017. The question is how people living in extreme poverty or poverty can break out: work, education. Work. If nothing else, but public work is available to many Roma and non-Roma people, the possibility of working is available and they can earn more income from the work than before. I certainly agree with Mr President that it is not a goal to get people stuck in public work for a long time, and therefore we are financing training from domestic and European Union funds to help people leave public work acquire the knowledge that they can work with in the competitive sector. I am referring not only to the free acquisition of second qualifications, but also to other adult education, and there is a targeted EU and domestic funding available for this purpose. So I think it's a tool to break out of poverty. Education. The Member also mentioned that kindergarten care is mandatory, and that children in poverty receive free meals, five free meals. At secondary school there is a secondary school maintained by the Roma municipality. In the area of higher education, I agree with you that there is a need for a Roma intellectual layer, so next year's draft budget law contains a new appropriation of HUF 140 million for Roma academic purposes. As regards the funding of minority self-governments, including the Roma self-government, I recall that the resources available to minority self-governments have been tripled since 2014, i.e. the Roma self-governments, minority self-governments... [[László Teleki: That's not true!]] Congressman, take a look at the proposals. [[László Teleki: I checked.]] The source of Roma minority self-governments has also increased. I therefore think that the government is taking steps to achieve the objectives set by the Member. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-17-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Congressman Jenő Manninger, Fidesz.
u2017-05-17-157	Thank you very much. Due to the little time, allow me to react very briefly here to the previous speakers, not really. All I have to say is that in small settlements, the maintenance of schools, which the government has undertaken, I think it also helps the situation of disadvantaged people. This is, of course, an element of the education system, which is certainly positive. As Vice-President of the Economic Committee, I would like to draw attention to the Irinyi Plan, even though the development of the economy has been debated by fewer people - who even tried to do so - but it is very important that there are separate funds available for the development of the domestic industry, even in addition to EU funds and other infrastructure investments, so that domestic industrial development, bus production reinforcement, quality industrial development, supplier development programme includes HUF 3 billion, as well as for the development of fixed-track vehicle production, and HUF 79.8 billion for R &amp; D, and it is planned to reach 1.8 percent of GDP by 2020. This is extremely important. In our area, Zala, where innovation investment is very low, such investments will be made, such as in the near future, the research of autonomous vehicles will start, which are also very important for these regions. In my area, let me mention in the short time that it is very important that tourism, as a driving sector, is also given to it, even if, of course, there is a further improvement in revenue growth and VAT reductions, but there is also a target and a development target of HUF 25 billion, and there is also HUF 30 billion for the maintenance of road construction, and the last thing I need to mention in my area is that hopefully there will be money for road safety problems, including around Cserszegtomaj. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-17-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2017-05-17-159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State Benő Banai has not answered my underlying type of questions. Obviously, he didn't answer because he knew the answer, and he didn't want to say it, or he couldn't get any results as a result of the search. You know, I was talking about how and how the issue of welfare, health and education funding in terms of GDP in the context of the context of 2010-2018. I'm just reminding you that in the next half hour, you may have a way, opportunity, and knowledge to respond. Employment. I keep listening, talking about 700,000 people. In a closed year it is appropriate to talk about employment, even in the closed years of 2010-2016 the figure is below 610 thousand even within the framework of the HCSO. You are talking about 500 thousand people in the economy, and you know that this is unreal, because we can already report a surplus of about 180 thousand people in public employment during this period. For those working abroad, we can report a surplus of more than 100,000 people, and let us not talk about student employment. He's talking about minimum wage, but he doesn't talk about how the minimum wage's purchasing value for six years turned out to be less valuable money in their hands. He didn't say anything about the tax burden. In the relationship system of the V4 he did not mention that 66 percent of the Hungarian minimum wage was taken over, while 82 percent of the Polish, 85 percent of the Slovak, and 89 percent of the Czech. In the case of municipalities, it does not mention how the compulsory tasks are not financed, and how the Fidesz municipalities participated in the debt. And one last sentence is that in public employment, he also talks about how these people are earning about one third less value in purchasing power than in 2010. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[21.30]]
u2017-05-17-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. For another two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2017-05-17-161	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, At the beginning of the day Minister Mihály Varga mentioned that two institutions - Bethesda Hospital and Buda Mercy Hospital - will benefit from a welcome support and development resource, which, from a HUF 5.5 billion sum, knows a birthing room and a infant class, as the government says, will make it a family-friendly environment, as I would put it, a purse-friendly environment, because in the press it may have been known that in exchange for development resources, these two hospitals promised that they would not accept gratuity money in these departments. I lived with the suspicion that other hospitals would be happy with development resources if all we had to promise was that there would be no gratuity money. My first question in this connection is, since the hospitals did not answer it, I contacted them, and they said that this is not a matter of public interest, whether the government is counting on the resources to be given to hospitals, where appropriate, in return for the lack of gratuity. I ask this in particular in the light of the fact that, for the last time in the debt settlement, a HUF 15 billion development framework was made available to the institutions, and according to my information, a generous over-subscription, i.e. a claim of about HUF 50 billion, has been announced to the government. So whether the government is counting on and whether there is funding for this in the 2018 budget to continue or to open up a similar opportunity, I would like to say that they are not only in Budapest, as they are receiving the EEW, but also for rural hospitals, so that all that they have marked in HUF 50 billion will be satisfied, that they can continue those development plans, mostly energy modernisation and upgrades of machinery. Is there a framework for this, if any, where is the framework, and how does the government think it is, or how does it feel that it could be set at the same time to make these hospitals or the institutions concerned gratuity-free? Thank you very much.
u2017-05-17-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by Mr Mihály Balla, Fidesz Group.
u2017-05-17-163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, We have talked about a wide variety of topics in the budgetary debate. Allow me to open a new subject briefly in the short time available, and this is the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, which has a very important role to play, if we also consider the adoption of the new Foreign Affairs Act in recent years. In addition, the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade increased by 38 percent last year, from 127 billion to 177 billion forints, and according to the 2018 draft budget, this increase will continue next year, and as the main expenditure amount of the chapter will be HUF 220 billion, which means another increase of 43 billion. There are two main elements, the main reason for this. One is that, in fact, our foreign service diplomats, working in the foreign economy, have a more predictable, better system of benefits and the next year's budget is giving them the opportunity to do their job when they have to enforce Hungary's national interests abroad. On the other hand, the second half of the 43 billion growth is due to an increase in the investment promotion target from 30 to 50 billion HUF, from 580 million to 7.9 billion, and from 3.7 to 7.5 billion in the foreign economic development target, which is specifically about promoting investment for the further development of major foreign capital inflows, investments by foreign direct investment and investments already made and, on the other hand, the promotion of R &amp; D, job creation or technological development. The priority is to bring producers' investments to Hungary, which also generate additional supply opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, create jobs, bring new technology, innovative solutions and modern production culture to Hungary. In this respect, the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade is precisely aimed at making Hungary more visible on the export market and at increasing its exports. In fact, the budget, based on the money, weapon and paripa, will give us the possibility that our diplomats, the Ministry itself, will have more room for manoeuvre. Allow me to say one more sentence about how many speeches have been made here, my fellow Members, how important it is to make sure that all Hungarians can move forward in their 18th budget. Here, as a final thought, let me say, as a member of the county of Nógrád, that it can be seen that, in the employment policy of recent years, in job creation grants, wage growth is even important for the people of Nógrád. Of course, there is still a lot of work to be done in this area, since catching up with the county of Nógrád is a very serious, responsible, big challenge. But I think that the '18 budget itself gives us an additional opportunity to get better wages for the people of Nógrád and more opportunities for families, and we can really say that every family, every person, can move on through development and support. Thank you very much for your attention. After we have had enough time, I really think that the adoption of the 2018 budget will basically serve the goal of improving the opportunities for families in everyday life in Hungary, and, on the other hand, with the support of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade and with the support of the budget, we can also make Hungary's external economic opportunities grow further. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2017-05-17-164	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group.
u2017-05-17-165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For the third time, I am not asking Secretary of State Banai about the basic question. I'll tell him he knows, but if he doesn't listen, he won't know the next time. You know, Mr Secretary of State, in terms of the percentage distribution of budget expenditure between 2010 and 2018, the situation appears to be a steep increase in functional expenditure, i.e. expenditure related to public operations, and welfare expenditure is falling sharply. The situation appears to be that the distribution of budget expenditure from 2010 to 2018 is of a magnitude of 54 per cent from virtually 61 per cent in terms of welfare expenditure, while the distribution of government expenditure is above 17 per cent in terms of public administration. So you care about yourself, people don't. You understand the connection, don't you? Yes, I'd like you to stop answering my question now. If you have not been able to discuss it twice in the debate, then for the third time, I do not want to hear any other, evasive answers. I do not want to go into all the details, but the point is that this budget is not, in fact, in most of the changes and changes - I also attach the issue of tax laws - it is practically not in line with labour-related incomes. Technically, we can say that even with regard to personal income tax, we have failed to make the big dreams. Nine percent or one-digit percentage was spoken of by the Prime Minister at the time. In the case of employee contributions, you know best that, for example, the total employer's and employee's tax burden was HUF 32 thousand in line with the net value of HUF 60 200, and now employers and employees are facing a tax burden of HUF 73 thousand at the minimum wage of around that amount in purchasing power. [[21.40]] So you can raise the gross, you can take the funds from people, you can increase the extra contributions, you can do nothing for the good of the people, you can do something about how you can take money, you can take it from employers, you can take it from people, and you can spread it around your buddies. Or, if you look at what a childless person looks like - because there are many people - working taxation, the Hungarian tax wedge shows more than 48 percent in this respect. This is the third highest for OECD Member State relations investigations. But if we go back to the issue of minimum wage, and when we tax it, we find that it is the highest in the relationship between OECD countries. By the way, in 2010 the public share of GDP was 37.5 per cent and in 2016 it was 39,2 per cent, so there is still a need to correct some of the figures that you said today. The tax system serves the rich, the interests of the rich, with HUF 400-500 billion more coming out in this direction in a given year, while the tax rate increases for low-income families. Technically, it was you who abolished the minimum wage tax exemption through the possibility of a tax credit, which was. You are constantly dripping on VAT cuts and the world champion is maintaining 27 percent VAT. Low incomes, once again, bear the highest tax burden. In 2018 it is not the income from work that is taxed positively, no, half of the income from non-work is taxed as income from work. Is this compatible with the philosophy you represent? And in the meantime, the support of friends will show up on a thousand strings in terms of new loopholes, tao discounts, and many other aspects. If the minimum wage has been forced, then I would like to say again that in 2010 the net minimum wage of HUF 60 236, if we consider it to be a hundred per cent, has been reduced in the six years after that, people have received less purchasing power money, they have stolen these people, through the charges they had to pay more, which they have collected and scattered among their buddies. Now, in the year before the election, they have reached the point of bringing these wages to the level of net and purchasing power, which represents virtually the same. You know, for the first time, you're paying off your debt, not giving up, but paying off your debt in this respect. The central budget generates HUF 942 billion in additional revenue, which is about 8.1 percent, and consumption-related tax revenues represent a HUF 363 billion surplus, as well as a HUF 300 billion surplus on VAT compared to last year. The increase in retail payments also represents this magnitude. For personal income tax, HUF 2090 billion plus 17 percent compared to 2017 rates. However, the amount of revenue increases by about a quarter, 20-25 percent, in terms of tax payments. It's all family-, philanthropic, employee-friendly, I suppose, in your style. You, I have to say, are supporting the richest in terms of tax burdens and in their actions through the budget. The Hungarian income situation, Mr. State Secretary, is again the OECD: we come out of the examination of 31 countries to the 28th place, we are among the worst. I told you, while the government's operating functions are being spent a lot more money on their rates, much less on welfare functions depending on the budget. And there's corruption. It is not for nothing that my fellow Members say that all their actions, whether they are taxes or not, do not matter whether they are budgets, they really are a budget of corruption, they are a budget of corruption, and they are a budget of injustice. Cinism is also that in the case of people with the most impossible fate, who do not have an insurance relationship, even the monthly social security fee is increased to HUF 7320. You said this morning that at eight points in Attila Mesterházy's movements he was wrong and that everything he said was not relevant. Look, the facts can't be taken away. Your nodding, your agreement with me says to me that even though you dispute it, you can't be taken away. Hungary's competitiveness has deteriorated. You can say whatever you want, you can play the gang, you can say everything, right now we're in 69th place. With regard to public debt, it is possible to say what happened in proportion to GDP, but there is an increase from 20 000 billion to 28 000 billion. With regard to poverty, he says that we should give factual data. Secretary of State, 36 percent of the current measurement figures show that you are in a position to manage money below the minimum amount of living. But if you look at a family of four, where there are two children, it takes 255 thousand forints to have the minimum living amount in the family. 41 percent of these families do not reach that amount. I told you about the minimum wage. You dispute whether the forint is weakened or not in the lane as it is. No, the forint weakened by 17 percent compared to 2010. These are facts, they cannot be disputed, they cannot be softened, they cannot be explained otherwise. Today, the economy is really being driven by EU resources. If EU funds were not counted into the process, the economy would not be plus, but minus. In fact, I would like to say a sentence about the dangers. What Árpád Kovács said, I mean that the possibility of a deterioration in the foreign trade balance is included in this story, or the rate and rate of growth that is not expected, because that 4.3 percent is so much overpriced. Now it doesn't matter if EBRD, anyone else, talks about 3-3.5 percent. This is not a budget for Hungarian people, it is not a budget for the benefit of Hungarian people, it is not a budget for the benefit of workers. We will therefore make transfers to the budget, basically in areas I have talked about: education, health, social areas. To conclude, I would like to say that you should lie down with the idea, and if you can sleep quietly you will wake up, Mr Secretary of State, that in Hungary the working man is increasingly moving towards workers' poverty. When the majority of people working in that country - I say: most of them - work for money below the minimum of living, I think that there is nothing to be proud of. When we are slowly becoming a country of minimum wage earners, because there is no minimum wage increase, especially in gross terms, if these funds effectively shrink the pay categories and bring the vast majority of people to this level. One word more than a hundred, this budget is far more for the benefit of the people than for the benefit of the people. It will certainly be good for the butcher, especially if 60 percent of European funds are to be used for economic recovery, then it is likely that he will not be able to earn 10 or 12 million forints per minute, but 15 or 20 forints per minute. Well, if that's what this country needs, thanks to you, it's a career to run, but I'm hoping it's not what you need in this country, people will wake up, see what you're doing, and the result will be that this is your last budget, and you won't have to make a budget in the next term. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-05-17-166	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. Now for the two-minute round. [[There's no candidate.]] I ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to the time frame available. Secretary of State says yes. We still have a timeframe, Mr. Secretary, if you wish, that's your decision. Congressman has indicated that he does not wish to speak. Excuse me? [[Dr. László György Lukács: Feel free to use your timeframe, Mr. Secretary of State, it is unlikely that we would like to say anything more.]] Secretary of State, you have the floor. [[21.50]]
u2017-05-17-167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, At the end of this long day, a lot of thought is expressed about the 2018 budget. I collected these into three groups. The first is that, in my view, the basic macroeconomic figures, which define the character of the 2018 budget, were not included in the contested items. So it is possible to argue whether growth will be 4 per cent or only 3.7; it can be argued that the deficit in public finances will be 2.4 or 2.3 per cent; but it is not that we can count on an increase above the European Union average; it cannot be debated and no one has argued that the ratio of public debt to GDP will remain on a downward path and that we can maintain the stability of public finances. This is therefore the starting point in which, I see, the various fractions of the House of Parliament did not dispute the correctness of government figures. The second question is what kind of fiscal policy the government intends to implement in this economic situation. The debate has made it clear that there are different ideas: the government stands by the economic policy that puts work, family and security first. We believe that this economic policy will be successful, as it has been successful in recent years, so this economic policy will also be successful in 2018. Therefore, it is fair to say that health, education, defence or even pensioners can expect a surplus in 2018 compared to 2017. Mr Nándor Gúr specifically drew my attention to various areas. Then, with all due respect, I would ask Congressman to look, for example, at the breakdown of the operational function of the state. You will see that some of the government officials raise wages, raise wages for people working in district or county offices, and raise NAV workers' wages are listed here. If you do not agree with this increase in wages and do not agree with the increase in public operating expenditure, then this can be said, but only to say which item of expenditure you do not agree with in particular. Prosperity, social expenses. I could quote last year's discussions where we went over the items of expenditure on this line. I am pleased that unemployment spending is falling, because this shows that there is a higher employment rate. Of course, we still have tasks to do, and it has also been shown that the needs of the primary labour market need to be met, we need to ensure that as many people work in the competitive sector as possible, that the performance of the economy can be increased, that productivity can be increased. There are also areas where we can all imagine extra resources, there will always be areas where more and more can be spent. However, what I see as a whole is that next year's budget is taking a significant step towards solving the tasks ahead of us. I hope that if the voters will also appreciate this in 2018, then it will be possible to move forward again in 2019 in order to solve the tasks that remain ahead of us. That is why I propose that next year's budget be adopted by the Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-17-168	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is adjourned. It will continue at 8:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz Group, spoke with the title of improving rural quality of life in the context of sports development. I give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2017-05-17-169	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Please allow me not to abuse your patience, but to share with you some of my current and joyful thoughts on rural development at this late hour. I think we have seen in recent years that the Government of Hungary has repeatedly demonstrated its commitment to the rise of the countryside and villages. As a member of the Parliament of Somogy County and Balaton, I also consider it an important objective to enforce the principle, the thinking that no one should be disadvantaged simply because they live in a small settlement in the countryside. It is true that meeting this objective is taking up serious costs in Hungary today, as the poor economic and rural policy of the socialist-liberal governments between 2002-2010 has not only put the country in a state-slaughter position, it has not only sold out the state, the local governments and the Hungarian families, but it has also made rural infrastructure improvements impossible. I could also say that between 2002 and 2010 we witnessed the conscious disintegration of rural villages. Because unfortunately, we all remember the elimination of rural railway lines and bus services, the closure of schools, kindergartens or even village post offices. I am pleased to say that thanks to the support of the civilian government, the settlements of the Somogy 4th Constituency, based in Siófok, have had the opportunity to develop a number of long-awaited and shortcoming developments in our region in recent years. Refurbished village houses, medical offices, rescue stations, road and rail constructions, institutional energy upgrades, drinking water and sewage investments have greatly increased the settlements of Somogy, which I represent. However, these investments also show how much we needed and need to rebuild and rebuild in the future. Therefore, despite the successful investments, I must say that we are still not where we want to be, because we still have plenty to do with the development of rural areas. In order to increase the strength of the countryside, further investments and improvements are needed. Investments that can create and ensure an adequate quality of life for the countryside. This aspect is particularly important for the youngest generation, children, who undoubtedly have the potential for the future. We must also pay particular attention to them so that their abilities, talents and talents can develop and develop as soon as possible. That's why I think it's strategic for everyone to have a chance at a XXI. The possibility of a quality of life to be expected in Europe in the first century. In other words, everyone should have the opportunity to learn, to learn, to spend leisure time useful and pleasantly, to exercise and to play sports. We can also say that we do nothing but extend our arms to the future with improvements in sport. For if we do sports development, we can create a more physical, spiritual, spiritual, fresher, fitter and healthier society, the economic performance of which can obviously be more effective. In recognition of this fact, everyday physical education has been introduced, thanks to which 1.2 million children now have the opportunity to move and play sports on teaching days. However, the introduction of daily physical education has also shown that the countryside needs to develop sports infrastructure. I am pleased to report that thanks to the national public education infrastructure development programme launched by the government, two municipalities, Andocs and Nagyberény have successfully applied for the establishment of gymnasiums in my constituency. From these two developments, the Andocs gymnasium was recently handed over, the inauguration of the Nagyberényi facility is planned to take place in the middle of summer, at the end of summer. The Andochi complex, which has now been transferred, could be implemented with a 100% government grant of HUF 280 million. The amount of the investment will be truly valued by adding the total annual budget of the village Andocs, which is HUF 251 million. It is easy to see that, without government help, the settlement of Somogy, which is only 1100 people, could never have built a sports hall of this quality on its own. The modern building, formulated as an old and legitimate need, has an irreplaceable role in the education and development of health and movement of hundreds of students and adults in the local and local areas. The hall is not only a pleasure and opportunity for the Andocsians, but also for children and their parents from the neighbouring towns of your Son, Kisbárapáti and Nágocs, it offers great opportunities for sports, community, cultural and leisure events. The investment that has been made is a message to the people living in the countryside that the current government of Hungary is really looking out for equal opportunities and opportunities for everyone to develop a healthy lifestyle and develop their talent. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Government of Hungary, on behalf of the municipality of Andocs, the inhabitants of the region and myself, for the fact that this old dream of ours has finally come true. And while we are talking about a budget, I think this is also a good example here, in closing today, that we have finally come to the point that not only European Union but also domestic development resources are enriching, increasing the Hungarian budget and creating opportunities for development and investment. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-17-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its meeting at 8:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. [[The meeting ended at 22.00.]]
