u2017-02-20-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 1st day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear Parliament, I am fulfilling my sad duty to announce that four of our former fellow Members have passed away in the past. Antal Kocsenda was elected Parliamentary Representative in the 1990 parliamentary elections on the regional list of the Independent Kisgazda Party in Bács-Kiskun county. Between 1990 and 1994 he was a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. He was the organizer of the civil section of the party, and from 1990 he was the national vice president. Between 1992 and 1994 he was a member of the Group of the United Small Farmers' Party. During his 30 years at Mahart, besides his political career, he was engaged in special engineering developments in shipping. He died in 88 years of his life. József Torgyán was a Member of Parliament between 1990 and 2002, Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development between 1998 and 2001. At the first free parliamentary election, the Independent Small Farmers Party obtained a mandate from the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county regional list. He was president of the FKGP for more than ten years, 1991 to 2002. Between 1990 and 1994, he was Vice-President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Preparatory Law and Justice, but he was also a member of the Economic and Constitutional Preparation Committees. He worked as a lawyer for more than thirty years in addition to his role in politics and culture. He died in the 85th year of his life. From 1998 to 2002, Tibor Erkel was a Member of the MIÉP Group. He obtained a mandate from the party's national list. He worked on the Health and Social Committee and on the Committee on Culture and Press. Besides his political career, he was a pianist and music director, and he taught at the Academy of Music for fifty years from 1964. In recognition of his work he received the Erkel Prize in 1986, the Knight Cross of the Hungarian Medal of Merit in 2012. Tibor Erkel lived 83 years. Kálmán Katona was a Member of Parliament between 1990-1994 and between 2006-2010, Minister of Transport, Communications and Waters between 1998-2000. At the parliamentary elections in 1990 he was the first freely elected parliamentary representative of the 8th single mandate district of Budapest in the colours of the MDF. In his first term, he was Vice-President of the Committee on Transport, Communications and Water. He obtained his mandate in the 2006 parliamentary elections from the Budapest regional list of MDF, then worked as Chairman of the Environment Committee. Kálmán Soldier was 69 years old. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our fellow Members who have died in silence. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, I declare that from 15 February 2017, the Group of LMP elected Mrs Bernadett Szél as Deputy Group Leader and Ms Erzsébet Schmuck as Head of Group from 16 February 2017. I would also like to announce that the Jobbik Group has elected Mr Márton Gyöngyösi as Deputy Group Leader with effect from 20 February 2017. Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and, on behalf of myself, to wish Mrs and Vice-President of the Group an effective work and good luck. Dear Parliament, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has applied for a speech before the agenda today. I give the floor to Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2017-02-20-1	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, At the beginning of our first parliamentary session, according to our constitutional customs, the government will report on what it has done since the last session. I have four things to talk about today. First of all, I would like to inform you that we already have a number of data and information on 2016 and that the government has reviewed them and withdrawn the economic and political balance of 2016. Secondly, the budget for 2017 came into force, and the government started implementing it according to the Parliament's decision. Third, the Government has prepared its political and economic plan for 2017. Fourthly, the government assessed the risks for 2017 and identified the threats. Dear House, At the end of last year, the government debt-to-GDP ratio decreased to 74 percent. Last year the general government deficit was HUF 848.3 billion, which is a HUF 388.9 billion reduction compared to a year earlier. With HUF 490 billion more taxes and contributions were added to the budget. We have good reason to express our appreciation to the Hungarians who work and pay their taxes. We also have good reason to thank the Ministry of National Economy and Minister Varga for their work. The general government balance in January showed a surplus of HUF 123.4 billion, which represents the best first month result in the last 17 years. CHAPTER XXI This is the best performance in January, and I expect positive developments in the coming months. In 2017, I see that the 2.4 percent deficit target can be clearly met. [[13.10]] In 2016, Hungary's total national product increased by 2 percent. This increase exceeds the EU average of 1.9 and 1.7. When assessing last year's growth, it is worth drawing attention to the fact that both external and internal balances have further strengthened in favour of growth. After all, there was an old, well-known problem with the Hungarian national economy that growth was often coupled with deteriorating financial balance and increasing budget deficits, i.e. increasing public debt, i.e. the economy grew simply out of debt. That's the problem we've solved. Today, economic growth is not in debt, but in real economic performance. The government expects an economic growth of 4.1 per cent in 2017 and 4.3 per cent in 2018. The European Commission's winter forecast, which is now published, is also expected to accelerate growth. Their November estimate was increased: from 2.6 percent to 3.5 percent, and if they were right, we would expect better, but even if they were right, this would still be the fourth best result in the European Union; this is not a bad result among 28 Member States. The odds are good, now all we have to do is cash them in. Hungarian foreign trade closed records in 2016. It has never occurred in the history of the Hungarian economy that we have been able to produce a surplus of EUR 10 billion in foreign trade over a year. In 2016, the euro value of exports increased by 3.1 percent compared to the previous year and imports by 1.7 percent, with an external trade surplus of EUR 10 billion. This draws attention to the fact that it is worthwhile to approach the issue of free trade in a nuance and thorough manner. I would like to remind you that the other painful weakness of Hungarian economic policy was that, when our economy grew, our external trade balance was broken. Now we've found a solution to that. Looks like we've moved on from this era, too. I would also like to inform you that, at the end of the year, we found that 71 large companies decided to invest in Hungary and that this brought EUR 3.2 billion of working capital to Hungary. Dear House, In the last quarter of 2016, the number of unemployed fell to 205 000, so unemployment is at a record low level of 4.4 per cent on an annual basis, otherwise after a continuous decline of 54 months. It's not far, I can also say that full employment is within reach. Since the change of government in 2010, the number of employees has increased by more than 700 thousand, which occurred predominantly in the domestic competition sector, where the number of people working has increased by 486 thousand, so we are well on track for a million new jobs that have been committed for ten years. According to the latest information, retail sales increased by 4.5 percent in 2016. This means that in two years, 15 and 16 Hungarians bought 10 percent more than before. Last year, we changed it and tried to make the National Tax and Customs Office customer-centred. The National Tax and Customs Office brought a total of HUF 12,793 billion in revenue, which exceeded the required budget amount by HUF 31 billion. Dear House, In December 2016, the number of nights spent by foreign guests increased by 21 percent, by 8.6 percent of those spent by domestic guests, and the turnover of commercial accommodations increased by 17 percent, which means that in 2016 a total of 27.7 million guest nights were registered. This was 7 percent more than in 2015 and total sales increased by more than 9 percent and exceeded HUF 402 billion. Congratulations to tourism professionals and workers in the sector. Their work is becoming increasingly important for the national economy. [[13.20]] Ladies and Gentlemen, I now present to you a series of numbers, which, as in general, are sterile, but we all know that behind every improving indicator, millions of people have hard work. The Hungarian people have worked for our achievements, and I think it is good to see that the fruitage of the work is gradually ripen, regardless of party standing. With due modesty, but I can tell you that the facts of the economy in 2016 have shown that the Hungarian model is operational. In conclusion, I would therefore like to report to this House that Hungary has achieved its economic policy objectives for 2016. As far as the implementation of the 2017 budget is concerned, the most important thing now is that not only full employment is available, but we could also aim to make it more worthwhile to work in Hungary. That is why we had an agreement with employers and employees at the end of the year. As a result, wages and taxes increased in January 2017. Employee taxes decreased by 5 percentage points and corporate tax decreased to 9 percent. The minimum wage increased by 15 percent in January and the minimum wage by 25 percent. Next year, the wages of the lowest earners will continue to grow by 8 and 12 percent. As of January, there have been wage increases in many sectors. The wage increase of higher education workers reached its second stage, after the average 15 percent increase last year, it increased by another 5 percent from January onwards. As of 1 January 2017, he became around 16,000 state officials employed at the county level of government offices. A differentiated wage increase of between 10 and 35 percent was achieved for county employees. From 1 January, the salary of the soldiers increased by another 5 percent, and the police, members of the Parliamentary Guard and employees of the Information Office received another 5 percent increase. From January to January, all staff who supported education and education received a 7 percent wage increase, and an additional 3 percent increase can be made on the basis of an employer's decision and on a performance basis. From January, post-secondary daycare workers joined the pedagogical career. There will also be wage arrangements for people with higher education in the social sector, and there has also been an increase in the salaries of public staff of cultural institutions with state and municipal reservations. In January, wages in healthcare continued to increase, and after doctors, the situation of nurses improved. They had a wage increase last year, with a further 12 percent increase in wages this year, and a further 8-8 percent increase in 2018 and 2019. We also agreed with the state-owned trade unions. We have a multi-annual agreement and wages increase by about 30 percent over three years. According to today's statistical official report, net earnings in the competition sector exceeded by 7.3 percent last December. This means that the average earnings are, according to today's statistical reports, HUF 305 thousand gross, which is HUF 203 thousand net. Dear House, It is important that, while working hard for the future of the country, we do not forget those who have carried the country on their backs with their hard work for decades, namely our parents and grandparents. This is why pensions increased more than planned in January, which is why the elderly received the Elisabeth voucher, and therefore the VAT on the most important food has also been reduced, as this is the most important thing for pensioners. From January, the family benefit was extended, and the family benefit for the two children was increased. In 2017, for one child 10 thousand per month, for two children 30 thousand per month, for three or more children, about 100 thousand forints per month. It is important that Hungarian society considers it fair that subsidies are always linked to work. We will follow this rule in 2017. Dear House, 2017 is also the year of home creation. I consider home creation to be a national matter, because we believe it is good for every Hungarian family to have their own home. When we introduced the new home creation program, we wanted to serve a number of goals at the same time. First of all, we wanted to avoid the nightmare of foreign exchange loans. We cannot allow the Hungarian families to be deceived so badly again. We have launched a programme that will help build homes, speed up the economy, create jobs and encourage childbearing. Today, I can tell you that 36,000 families have requested home-building support worth more than HUF 87 billion. The number of building permits has increased by two and a half times compared to the previous year, and this year, thanks to the strong work of Minister Varga, we have provided even more resources for home creation, to be exact, HUF 211 billion. At last, the living environment will be given special attention in 2017. We expect a lot from the work of Prime Minister Márius Révész. At the end of December 2016 we handed over the first supported electric car. We intend to have at least 30,000 electric vehicles in Hungary by 2020. We have signed a cooperation agreement with Budapest, and as a result of this agreement there can be around 250 charging posts and 500 filling places worth some 600 million HUF. I would also like to inform you that we have increased the budget for our economic development and innovation programme by HUF 105 billion, so in 2017 the financial framework to stimulate the Hungarian economy increased to HUF 2430 billion. Since we have not met, the government has adopted the Hungarian digital startup strategy - it would be good for linguists to come up with a Hungarian term - and we have ordered the establishment of a coordination and methodology centre, the promotion and education of the entrepreneurial way of life, the development of cooperation between industry and startups, and the development of the Startup Budapest. Ladies and gentlemen, The government continues to think that a country that has no borders or can't protect them is not a country. This is why we have stopped the migratory pressure on the country, the temporary safety barrier on the southern border has been built, and the development of this is ongoing. We have made it clear that the safety of Hungarian people is the most important, so no one can enter Hungary illegally. This means that we have virtually doubled the number of military and police forces involved in defence in the border sections of Csongrád and Bács-Kiskun county. The first phase of border hunting training took place - 532 persons - in December. The pressure on the Hungarian border will not go away in the coming years, so border protection remains a matter of high importance for national security. The situation in Europe now looks very much like an increasing number of Hungarians share their views on migration. But this is our life, we Hungarians are not right, but we will be right. I would like to inform you that at the last prime minister's summit, more and more people are supporting the establishment of refugee camps outside the EU, which was a Hungarian proposal, and the Brussels people did not want to hear about it before. There has been a gap in the European Union's view that refugee camps should be set up outside the territory of the European Union. There is no majority position yet, but the events are moving in this direction. [[13.30]] As a whole, it can be observed that previously excommunicated, underestimated or even despised positions are becoming a common position and that former black sheep are transformed into people of calm foresight. Dear House, The leaders of the Visegrád countries also met in February. We have confirmed that borders must continue to be protected; those who came in must be taken out and those who want to come in must be kept and separated outside the European Union. These are still the three pillars on which the Visegrád 4 position rests. Dear House, The government has identified five threats that we will face in 2017. These are the following. First, the ban on the reduction of the rent in Brussels; second, illegal migration; third, the attempts to influence abroad; fourth, the attacks on Hungarian tax cuts in Brussels; and fifth, the attacks on our job creation programmes in Brussels. Dear House, You will remember that there was a major debate in Brussels about the Hungarian reduction of the rent, and the large international companies tried to force us through Brussels to withdraw the reduction of the rent. Independent energy policy is a powerful tool in the hands of nations for the benefit of their citizens. We understand that several Member States want regulated energy supplies at European level. All right, we understand, but we insist on our right to determine the energy prices ourselves. This right cannot be moved to Brussels, it must remain here in this building. Secondly, despite the devastating bloody reality and the terrible facts, this House, in Brussels, many still support illegal immigration. Countries supporting migration and Brussels will be halted step by step. Germany and now Italy, even slowly, turn. A further question of self-defense must therefore be raised, and this is a question of foreign police custody. The migrants who have submitted the request must be detained until the final assessment of their case, as proposed by the Government, as opposed to the current situation, when they are free to move, not only in Hungary, but throughout the Schengen area. In today's times of terror, this is simply not possible. Thirdly, in recent years, there have been growing problems in more and more countries with hidden foreign money, international networks and organised policies in each country. These networks have nothing to do with civil society organisations, these are Hungarian deposits of international organisations. You have seen the debate on influencing the US election campaign, and you can see that this debate is now taking place in France. This seems to be a general problem of Western democracies. We Hungarians have repeatedly testified over history that we are able to decide our own fate, so it is not worth letting our decisions be influenced by organizations funded from abroad, and we will not allow global capital to decide instead of the Hungarian people. We want transparency, publicity and accountability as well as in the case of political parties. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Dear House, I see that in 2017 Brussels will attempt to attract new economic and economic governance powers from the nation states. This endeavour of Brussels will not spare the Hungarian tax rules either. I ask you not to contribute to this, to resist and to protect the successful Hungarian tax system together. And finally, to the fifth, as you know, a number of countries have decided to introduce employment protection grants in the European Union. Hungary also uses public works, the job protection action plan and investments and investment grants that create and preserve individual jobs. Brussels is constantly attacking them. That's how it's been, and so it will be. I suggest we not let them take away the right of nations to provide job-creating subsidies. Well, Mr House, Mr President, the steps developed to combat these five attacks are referred to as the government's new national policy. We intend to protect Hungary, protect our national interests and the results that we have fought together over the past years. A successful defence requires agreement in the first place. The wider and more complete the agreement, the better. Therefore, as a first step to our custom, we are launching a national consultation on these issues and we are confident that we will be able to re-establish the points of agreement necessary for action and even international action. I also hope that the Hungarian Parliament, in addition to the current political slums, will be able to line up on the side of Hungarian voters in order to defend the independence of our country and the sovereignty of our nation. Finally, Mr President, Honourable House, although my report today deals with the years 2016 and 2017, we all care how what is happening in Hungary shows, how much it is worth and what it promises in the historical perspective. Here's the answer to that. Hungary is the XIX. From the end of the 20th century to the end of the 120th century, he experienced similar developmental periods in many respects to one another. The fate of each one was similar: they began with consolidation, followed by an extremely effective uplifting phase, which was interrupted by the current domestic or international crisis. In the 100 years behind us, we can identify at least four of these periods. Significant economic shocks have had a strong impact on both economic growth and financial balance. But even more serious was the consequences of the 120-year crises left behind that successive crises not only stopped progress, but also destroyed some of the results achieved. Once again, the consequences of the crisis have been overcome by years of consolidation. Together, this led to, say, the average annual growth of GDP per capita between 1900 and 2010, i.e. only 1.5 per cent per year in this period of 1900 to 2010. This is below the pace of development of developed countries and European countries with successful catch-ups. In other words, our attempts to catch up to us Hungarians have been unsuccessful. In 110-120 years Hungary has only been able to approach it, not to cross the line of lasting growth. Another chance was given to the country in 1990 with the change of regime and the turn of the market economy. The story is well known to you: we have not been able to carry out an economic eruption that is so important to the country. Economic policies, fiscal shock therapy and the shift in debt, a multitude of failed steps, and finally, the country was vulnerable to another international shock, the Hungarian financial collapse in 2008 and the global financial crisis in 2008-2009. This also made it necessary to start a new era in 2010. Hungarian economic policy has been given direction and direction. Since 2010, the growth rate of the Hungarian national product has been on average 1 percentage point higher in Hungary since 2010 than in the euro area in terms of historical catch-up. Consumption in Hungary increased 1.2 percent faster than in the euro zone; in 2016 it was 5 percent in Hungary, while in the euro zone only 2 percent. Overall, this resulted in a total of 5 percent of the total GDP of the national product per capita caught up with the euro area in Hungary. As regards the catch-up in the labour market, the number of people employed has increased by over 700,000 since 2010 [[Intervention from the opposition benches: No, that's not true.]] This is a 19-percent increase, and it is the highest in Europe, Luxembourg and Malta show similar growth. Since 2010, the employment rate has increased from 55 per cent to 67 per cent, which is already higher than the average of the euro area. Dear House, Mr President, All these are facts that promise that we can achieve an economic breakthrough. [[13.40]] I request that these historical dimensions be taken into account in the 2017 parliamentary season when the factions form their policies. Hungary had a long-lost chance in 2010-16. Let's not play it, let's make it happen. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-20-2	Dear Parliament, After more than 20 minutes of Prime Minister's speech, the leaders of the political groups and their deputies have 8-8 minutes per faction to comment. Gábor Vona, Deputy Group Leader of the Jobbik Group, applied for a speech. Here you go.
u2017-02-20-3	Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, Dear Parliament, Let's start with the Olympics, I think, and let's just say, Prime Minister, you really, really messed this up. You've ruined it, and you're trying to point to the movement that has now leaped into the ground in connection with the Olympic collection of signatures, because this movement is an effect, and the reason is you, Prime Minister. Despite trying to shift responsibility to the capital, despite trying to hide behind István Tarlós' skirt like a bunny, the responsibility, Mr. Prime Minister, is yours. And I'm saying that you are the cause, and you are responsible for what you have done, Prime Minister? He did that in an Olympic fever - burning country, he achieved in a few months that almost civil war conditions were ruling, people were fighting in the subway. And how did you do that, Prime Minister? He achieved it with selfishness and greed. The selfish thing that you don't want to honor the country about the Olympics, you want to honor yourself and your own party. With the greed that people have felt: the Olympics are important to you not primarily because of gold medals, although I believe you, because you are a sports fan that it was more important to you and to you personally because of gold bars, stolen money - not gold medals, but gold bars. And people have sensed that, Prime Minister. So when you look for the reasons for the Olympics, I'll tell you why, Prime Minister: in Hungary, people love the Olympics. Hungary could have staged an Olympics, and in Hungary people did not say no to the Olympics, but in the same way as they said no to you during the quota referendum, Prime Minister. Once again, as in the case of the quota referendum, you have almost nullified a large social unit. He almost ruined a big social issue. He's fallen into the pit of his own will now, and people are fed up with it. People have said no to this, and they're saying no to the landlord mentality that you've led us to see all over the country. He's stunned, he's little balls, he's only on the Fidesz slogan, he's seen everywhere, and there's no meaningful steering. It seems, Prime Minister, that you are only interested in money and football, and you see Hungary in this situation as if Hungary is your personal property, your property, and the people of Hungary are your servants. I would like to draw your attention, Prime Minister, to the fact that Hungary is not yours, not yours. Hungary belongs to the Hungarians, to the Hungarian people, to the Hungarian society, and in 2018, at the latest, it will be the task, and we will implement it, to give Hungary back from your property to the Hungarian people, whom it deserves. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] And if we are already asking who owns Hungary, or who thinks that Hungary owns it, then the question of Lőrinc Mészáros is still hanging in the air, which we have not heard very much about. In connection with Lőrinc Mészáros, I may have been the first to ask you the clear question here in Parliament, who Lőrinc Mészáros is, whether he is your stroman; whether this man is responsible for all the things he wins in Hungary, because he is so talented, so hardworking and so decent, or simply because you have appointed him his cashier. Prime Minister, I would like to offer you an experiment: the Századvég Intézet, which is a public opinion research company close to you, I think you should ask the Hungarian citizens: do you believe that Lőrinc Mészáros is not a cashier and Lőrinc? And believe me, people don't believe it. People are convinced, Prime Minister, that Lőrinc Mészáros doesn't know tourism, he doesn't know how to build roads, he doesn't know the applications he wins. Butcher Lőrinc knows one thing: he's raising money for you. Don't think people are stupid, Prime Minister. The horse's foot's hanging out, or I might as well say the gas line's hanging out. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] That policy, the land-surgeon mentality I was talking about, is what hundreds of thousands of Hungarians are fleeing from Hungary. At the time of the socialists, the governors of foreign interests ruled this country, took away the freedom and financial security of the people. This was enough for the Hungarian people, and then you came. And what happens? Once again, they take away people's freedom, they take away people's financial security again, but they're domestic landlords. And you didn't talk about emigration in the great fascination of numbers. Yet emigration is a clear proof of your failure to govern. And they're not leaving out of an adventure, Prime Minister, these people, Prime Minister, these people are not out of an adventure, as you said and say. These people are running away from here. Today's adventure: staying home. Prime Minister, this emigration problem causes family tragedies, economic and social problems, and a huge shortage of workers in many sectors. There could be only one sound solution, and we have not heard of it among the objectives, a competitive economy and raising wages to the European level. However, there are basic conditions to this. For example, let me just say a few things without the need for completeness. Health care should be strengthened, education should be strong and corruption reduced to zero. And what are you doing? Exactly the opposite: they consciously destroy health care, consciously destroy education, and consciously maximize corruption. One of your senior advisors said, in connection with corruption, that what the opposition calls corruption is essentially the essence of your policy. So the mask is gone, the makeup is gone, he said that your policy is about corruption. There is nothing else to say, of course, when Lőrinc Mészáros helps out a company in the interest of one of your relatives by HUF 3.2 billion; he buys canned food. Or there is nothing else to say when it comes to the fact that Mr Pharaon, who is wanted internationally for support of terrorism, who is already not alive, but who would have wanted to meet you here at the National Assembly; or when an office is opened not so far from the ISIS base to sell settlement bonds, and it turns out that there are many fictitious bonds among the bonds, and that the profits of the bond business land in offshore companies. Prime Minister, what country is this? ! The first measure of the Jobbik government will be to achieve accountability, real accountability. Stealing won't last forever, Prime Minister, no matter what you think. And our most important and top priority is the creation of a competitive economy and the provision of wages to Hungarian people at European level. You also carried out the minimum wage increase by creating an almost impossible situation for small and medium-sized enterprises, Hungarian businesses, while giving excessive benefits to multinationals. He likes to speak against the multinationals very much, but let us remind you of your position on CETA. You have not mentioned the gap between the wages of the workers in Central and Eastern Europe and the wages of Western European workers at any EU summit, while the price level has been balanced. On the other hand, in Saudi Arabia, you encouraged entrepreneurs to come to Hungary by providing cheap labour here. In fact, you said in one of your interviews on the daily.hu site that you are not interested in comparing such European wages. Prime Minister, you may not be interested, but I would like to inform you that the Hungarian people do care how much their wages are and how much they can buy. To that end, Jobbik will launch a European Citizens' Initiative. In Eastern Central Europe, we sought allies, trade unions, associations, parties, to ensure that the historic justice that equal pay for equal work in Europe would be achieved, that we would take this fight, which you have never undertaken, because you have built your economic policy on cheap labour, along with your predecessors, that what you have ruined, you have betrayed, we will make it right. Prime Minister, since I have only a few seconds left of my time, let me repeat to you that nothing will last forever, and your government based on theft and corruption will not last forever, no matter what you think. And if Jobbik goes to government in 2018, there will be real accountability. Prime Minister, you've got a year, you've got a year, start cutting the inch, and be prepared to personally answer for Pharaon, Laurin the Butcher, the bond and all kinds of dirty business. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-20-4	And now it's time for Mr Bertalan Tóth, Group Leader, on behalf of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2017-02-20-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! We listened to the production conference and the history lesson, but now I do not understand why nearly 60 percent of Hungarians feel that things are going in the wrong direction and that their lives are harder. [[13.50]] You're sitting in an ivory tower with urizing friends, and all you see is statistical numbers. You see people as statistical numbers. Do you meet people? You're talking about a new national policy that only exists in your head because it doesn't exist in reality. He's making conspiracy theories, he's talking about backup powers. Come on. I love science fiction and movies about it, too, but, Prime Minister, reality is different. While starting fictitious wars, he eliminates the freedom of the press, eliminates civil society, freedom of speech, he wants to be putinier than Putin, although a Hungarian comedian said that he was only a Disney Putin. But let's talk about reality, Prime Minister, about the real Hungary. The reality, Prime Minister, is that people are afraid of the disease because they are afraid that they will not be cured. They pay the gratuity money, even though they pay the stipend with decency. The reality, Prime Minister, is that people are concerned about their children, worry that they will not acquire the right knowledge in school for their well-being and worry about leaving the country. Parents pay, pay taxes with honor, but send their children to special classes because they fear that they will not receive the right knowledge. The reality, Prime Minister, is that if a washing machine fails in a family, they cannot replace it, even though the Hungarian people work hard, but they get little pay. Prime Minister, Hungarian people do not need stadiums, Olympics or expensive nuclear power plants, but the Hungarian people want a safe living, which is why we submitted a package of proposals that would immediately help the Hungarian families to make a safe living. We recommended that the minimum wage be 100 thousand HUF net, but that the burden of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises should not increase. Prime Minister, you raised the minimum wage and reduced taxes to the multinationals by putting Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises at a clear competitive disadvantage, and the enormous tax burden and the burden on the minimum wage, which is painful. Prime Minister, you have said big figures about how much better the Hungarian economy is developing, but you have not mentioned how Hungary stands in competitiveness indicators. The macro indicators may be good, but the competitiveness of Hungarian businesses is far below that of the neighbouring countries. Minister Mihály Varga, whom you have repeatedly highlighted and praised, said that it would take another 5-6 years to catch up with Slovakia in terms of competitiveness. The second point of this package of proposals, which I mentioned, was to raise pensions with integrity. Prime Minister, it is humiliating that even inflation will not be achieved by the pension increase that you have just accepted, and I remember the sentences of Secretary of State Rétvári when he said that the pension was constantly increasing in real terms - this will be the first year when it will decrease in real terms. [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: But there is no inflation! Moraj, interrogations in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Sorry, according to the Hungarian National Bank's forecast, there will be more than 2 percent inflation, compared to a 1.6 percent pension increase! We demand that the government return to the model of pension calculation that would allow pensions to rise by 3.2 percent and the minimum pension to be 50,000 forints! Prime Minister, I'm glad you brought up the rent, because let's be honest about energy prices. Prime Minister, we should not protect the overhead, we should reduce the energy prices. If it weren't for the price control formula you're talking about. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Today, energy in Hungary would be cheaper than in the previous period, as energy prices on the international market decreased by more than half, instead Hungarian consumers pay the same amount. If the market allows it now, why don't they cut energy prices? Why is it that more than 106,000 households are turned off from services, more than last year? More people owe gas bills than last year. Where is the result then? It could be reduced now, so we demand that the price of gas be reduced by 20 percent to the average consumption, 10-10 percent for electricity and district heating. Let us also talk about the VAT on basic foods, Prime Minister, which we approve of the need to reduce, but we say that we really should reduce the VAT on basic foods and VAT on all basic foods. Prime Minister, who eats wild meat in Hungary today? And you're your hunting friends and urizing fidesz friends. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Oh, come on. Will reducing the VAT on wild game meat help small pensioners? Will this help the Hungarian ordinary people? Why not reduce the VAT on bread? [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. Viktor Orbán: The VAT on wild meat is not reduced.]] Prime Minister, this is the package of measures on reality, which would immediately help the Hungarian people to make a secure living. Some thoughts on security issues: the Socialist Group supports all measures that are constitutional, which are really about the safety of Hungarian people, but also about humanity. But I would like to emphasise one thing: we believe in a common European solution and solutions [[Lajos Kósa: What is not!]] Obviously, it is up to you in the European Council to represent this, since we must not deceive ourselves, the flow of refugees has decreased or ceased there, when the European Union has agreed with Turkey. This was also a common European solution [[Moraj, interrogations from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] , and it should not be the cooperation that is to be broken up, but it should be accompanied by concrete proposals and a common European solution. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Finally, let me point out that you should come out of the ivory tower, talk to people, and put people's real problems at the crossroads of the new national policy, and not different background powers, elusive enemies. The problem should be the new national political target, and the problems will be solved by the Parliament, and the government should make proposals. We socialists will work in the spring session to find a solution to the real problems of the people, which is why we will submit our proposals for Hungary, for our common future. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-02-20-6	Before I give the floor to Mrs Bernadett Szél, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that many people's semi-sounding remarks about the presidential pulpit seem to be noisy, and I would like them to continue listening with patience to the speakers. Here you go, Madam Group Leader.
u2017-02-20-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, Dear Parliament, I listened with interest to the government's problems for over 20 minutes. I would rather talk about the problems of the Hungarian people and the solutions that exist here and there, but it seems that there is no will in the government to really deal with them. Mr. Prime Minister, Let me make a note first of all that you've pulled out the miracle weapon again, this national consultation. In my opinion, in recent weeks, the Hungarian people have expressed quite clearly what national consultation they wanted, which is called the Olympic referendum. What is the message of this referendum? It is clear that Fidesz-KDNP has been in a position where no one in this country would trust them for HUF 3000 billion, and they are doing so very well, because we know exactly who the economic gold medalists of this Olympics would be, and I think that these people have taken enough of their pockets over the last few years, and we do not need to add another good dose of taxpayers' money to it. Mr. Prime Minister, You listed the macro numbers here. I don't mean to be disrespectful, but when I was a kid, we could hear these kind of parliamentary speeches, and the thing is, I don't really want that era back, but now I'm in a weird time loop, and I have to respond to you after something like this. Fidesz didn't start out like that either - sorry to keep you here. But in any case, going back to the macro numbers, even if these numbers are impressive, the fundamental question for the Hungarian people is what people get from it. I think that if we have a minimum wage that is still a driving force in the Visegrád Four, and we see that the average wage is still 30 percent behind in the European Union, because it has not been dealt with at all in the past, then I think it is right to ask why, if we read here on your billboard that there is real economic growth here, there is not enough of it for everyone. One of the answers is, by the way, the tax system, so the Prime Minister is in the right place here, but it should not be protected from Brussels, but from Fidesz, because the single-key tax system does not work. The fact is, even in 2010, you thought so. Once again, I took out the HVG interview where he spent a long time discussing the need for solidarity among people, and that is a multi-key tax system. We now have a tax system in which - Mr. Minister, I hear that you too are keen to say things instead of Viktor Orbán - it is the case that we have a tax system where everyone who earns under the average wage is wrong, and the majority of Hungarian workers, three quarters, are earning under the average wage. A perverted redistribution of incomes that Fidesz has made, that if you're poor, you can transfer money from someone who's rich, the country can't take it. We'll all be crippled in this. [[14.00]] Mr. Prime Minister, You said one of those weird half-phrases I got my head on. He said to approach the issue of free trade in a nuance. Now, that's Fidesz's betrayal. This is Fidesz's betrayal, one about CETA and the other about TTIP; let's say the TTIP is now in a bit of a parentheses Donald Trump, but that this is a surrender of national sovereignty. There are no reliable calculations of the economic consequences of Hungary's accession to CETA. What is calculated, and what we know, is that Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises will suffer badly. From here on out, let me even make a comment that I would expect a Prime Minister not to deal with myths, but with facts. This total employment is now becoming a myth, which, I think, is synonymous with the fact that after London, Berlin, Austria and all the other countries, as the Hungarian people go abroad, there are jobs in Hungary because there are no Hungarian people in Hungary who can provide this work, because they live so badly at home that they go abroad. In the meantime, it was your government that took itself and passed a law at the Hungarian Parliament in June that anyone from Nepal could come to Hungary and work for us, because we are already abroad. Does Fidesz really want to turn Hungary into a gateway? 'Cause if you did, you did, but I don't think that was supposed to be the point. Mr. Prime Minister, He said that creating a home was a national matter. I agree with that. That's right, home-building is a national matter. But where is the social housing sector? Where are the opportunities available to small-money Hungarians, available to young people, if there are bad wages like those in Hungary, they can start their life together with the person they love, so that they can have children, so that they can have a life. Why is the Prime Minister sending these people abroad? Why do you say for romantic reasons that they'll try you there, and then if they want to, they'll come home? There's been a Prime Minister who talks like that, and it didn't end well. And there's this life-living environment agenda item. Prime Minister, I appreciate your abilities, Mr Márius Révész, as our fellow Member, Commissioner of the Government, but electric cars are not the most important aspect of a viable environment. We are in Budapest now, because Parliament is in Budapest, but there are smogs in a lot of large Hungarian cities. I don't know if you know, Prime Minister, that people live ten years less in Budapest, the air is so bad. In such a situation, I think that the Prime Minister of Hungary should do one thing, make public transport in this city, and help those who ambition it, so that people can get out of their cars, whatever car it is, and go by public transport. I would also add that the Paks II story, which you led in your political agenda, is not about creating a viable environment, because there is no place in the world where you can safely bury your nukes. So, Prime Minister, if you stand here and tell us that you want a viable environment, you will, if possible, immediately abandon the Paks expansion, start installing renewable energies in Hungary, insulate this country, do not let János Lázár take 130 billion forints away from the Hungarian families, which should have been given insulation, and will give himself and Budapest the opportunities to live normally in this city. The five dangers you have listed here, Prime Minister, also seemed a little anxious. Personally, and I think half the country is sick of being scared and terrified. I don't want to hear about five dangers, I want to hear about five options and five tasks that we're going to do, because it's in the interests of the country. I'll give you five of these tasks. The first item on the agenda is that those who work eight hours in this country with integrity can make a living. It's not like that right now. Of course, 1440 billion forints would have to be rearranged in the budget, and you would certainly not be able to move to the Castle, but let's say there would be one or two people who would have an apartment that would be comfortable and capable of having children, and would be able to do their job at all with a good feeling to appreciate their work financially. The other is the question of education. The fact is that this, which is now operating in Hungary, is the destruction of our future in the field of education. We say that 20 forints out of 100 budget forints should be given to education, simply because this is how we know the kind of catch-up that you said you wanted to make. In Hungary, Hungarian people deserve better than to receive such education. I do not know why you maintain an education system that is bad for children, bad for teachers and bad for parents. You have to pay for this, you have to put the money there, Prime Minister. On health care: we are currently living in a country where three doctors and two nurses leave every day, and I see that despite yesterday's statements and yesterday's statements, this trend will not be reversed. Prime Minister, what are you going to do with this? I would like to mention, for the last time, a very important item on the agenda here, the issue of a clean government. I personally feel bad knowing that I'm sitting here with billionaires and helicopter ministers while half the country starves and goes bad. I think it's no coincidence that two thousand billion forints shouldn't be spent on Paks and Olympics. I think that the countryside, the Hungarian countryside, should be put in a position, and that we should finally do the offshore decommissioning of this country, we should not let those who do not take part in the tax community win here on the tax forints. Prime Minister, these are the tasks. [[Intercom from the LMP line: That's right! Applause in the same place.]]
u2017-02-20-8	I now give the floor to the leader of the KDNP Group, Mr Péter Harrach. Here you go.
u2017-02-20-9	Mr. Prime Minister, Dear fellow Members, I was not envious of my opposition fellow Members who spoke to the second and third, who tried to overcome Gábor Vona in demagoguery, but were able to beat this match to a draw. I quote a sentence from what I just said. Half of the country is starving; or: the reduction in energy prices was spoken by a representative of the party whose prices were increased several times during its governance. Are these sentences authentic? But let's get back to the Prime Minister's speech, because that's what we're talking about. We welcome economic growth, but let me say that it is primarily about its social impact, because we welcome the reduction of public debt, the surplus in public finances, the surplus in foreign trade, the influx of operating capital, but we are even more happy that this has an impact on society. This is primarily an increase in employment, as unemployment is a single risk of poverty, and if unemployment is reduced and employment is increased, people obviously live better. Here, let me draw attention to what many people don't like about public employment. The fact that hundreds of thousands of people are paid for work instead of aid today is the result. It is also a result that some of them, not insignificant ones, have returned to the normal labour market, and that has brought families' lives straight. We are pleased with the increase in retail turnover, which shows that wage increases have an impact. Again, let me highlight two groups that we consider important, the wage growth of nurses and workers in the social sector, because these two areas were rather behind, and it is important that doctors increase their wages by two hundred thousand, but the increase in the wages of nurses is equally important. It was also about reducing food VAT. Once again, this is a major step forward for those who are low incomes, because when we talk about poverty and try to do this objectively based on data, we must say that people with low incomes, those who need different social benefits, those who are disadvantaged, are particularly sensitive to the reduction in the VAT on food and basic food. We also welcome the news on the development of tourism, and let me come to the issue of the Olympics for two or three sentences. It is undoubtedly a capital competence, but it is a national interest. Why do I consider this to be a national interest? Because there is no better opportunity in terms of country image. At a time when some people are giving up a lot of things from the world's exhibition, we need to see that this is not primarily an economic issue, although the economic impact is significant, but a very good tool for Hungary's reputation, Hungary's presentation or, if you like, Budapest's introduction. [[14.10]] I'm sure there are people with good intentions among the signatories. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: Aren't they traitors?]] Those who wanted to discuss this issue, but I am also sure that there are many who have done this with political intent. Let's keep moving. At a time when we are talking about social impact, we also need to think about families, so in the case of family tax relief - which we Christian democrats consider to be extremely important and, if we look back for many decades, we find in our program - we have to say that the increase in tax relief for two children is once again improving the situation for families, as is the number of people who use CSOK for 36,000. The important question is how to promote home creation at a time when the problem of foreign currency loans has come to people's attention, because people need to be helped not only from the credit trap, but also to help them to start a new, clean slate. Following the Prime Minister's words, the question of a viable environment has been mentioned several times. Allow me to be subjective now and refer to a personal experience. My constituency belongs to the Börzsöny. This mountain itself offers great opportunities with the proximity of Budapest, a recreational opportunity. In the Börzsöny Mountains, there have been very serious developments in recent years. I agreed to the development of small trains. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: Uh-oh! Slip up?]] I included the development of tourist houses or, for example, the construction of lookout points, so the service of tourists, mostly those with boots, which were carried out by representatives of the state forestry industry. Finally, it is worth saying a few words about the issue of self-defense. We have always said that actual refugees should be helped. The way to help is the support that we implement in the issuing countries. But of course, for the second time, we also have a responsibility to our own nation, because self-defense obliges us, especially those who represent politics. Let me conclude by saying that when we practice part of our sovereignty together, it does not mean that we let the rest of our sovereignty be put at risk. If I were to say a metaphor, perhaps it could be said that it is similar to any other cooperation and community, even marriage, because there too, we give up the individual exercise of our sovereignty to practice it together, better together. I believe that this is part of self-defense, protecting Hungary's independence. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-20-10	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kósa, Head of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2017-02-20-11	Mr. President. Dear House, Prime Minister! The opposition is not in an easy position today in Parliament, and this is not just because there are slowly more opposition organisations than there are parliamentary seats for the opposition, and it is always difficult to think about how an agreement is reached. But the opposition is not in an easy position either, because it is clear that, when Hungary is strengthened, when the figures support this... - which the opposition does not dispute either, because they did not say that it is not true, rather than that employment has increased, it has decreased. They didn't say that there was an increase in debt, they didn't say that GDP was falling and that it wasn't growing. I wish they could say that, but even they're not that brave. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Therefore, obviously, Hungarian reality, Hungarian life must be taken from somewhere else, because the fact that Hungary is growing stronger and better performing is indisputable. The increase in Hungary's economic performance is indisputable. The fact that we are now able to set goals that we believe... - which we remember in 2010 when we first said that Hungary's elected Prime Minister said that within ten years a million new jobs should be created. At the beginning of 2017, the number of new jobs is around 700 thousand, and the majority of them are market jobs, which were not created by public distribution. [[Noise, interruptions from the opposition benches.]] You can't deny that, or you can, but it's not worth experimenting with. Therefore, obviously, when the government has to be attacked because the opposition cannot say that they couldn't have done much more than that, they obviously have to come up with something else. And then we are faced with half-phrases which, on the other hand, show that the opposition is brave, because they do not recognise hair-scraping data. Before the cuts - I will say just one thing, because my fellow Member Bertalan Tóth, my fellow group leader, said that not only would there have been a decrease, but there was an increase in outflow - after the socialists' governance, 136 billion were the Hungarian population's residuals. Now we're at 28 billion. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] There's a lot to say about this. It's a growth for the socialists. God forbid they'll cut back on the outstanding, because then this country will be unbearable! [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] However, what we have to deal with separately is a few important issues. I don't know if you noticed anything when you were watching the leader of the opposition. Because it's not just what they're talking about, it's what they're not talking about. And the miracle was that while everyone on the opposition was talking about corruption, about the horror of corruption, none of them mentioned the biggest corruption scandal ever, the case of Metro 4. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Crying from the ranks of the governing parties: Yes!]] Of course, I do not want to deprive Sándor Kovács of the possibility of a medal [[Defiance.]] But his performance, which he showed on Jobbik's side, is much more modest in summary terms than what the Balliberal forces brought together in connection with Metro 4, which threatens Hungary to repay HUF 59 billion to the European Union, otherwise the total loss of the budget, the money that was stolen, HUF 167 billion. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] So the opposition, when it talks about corruption, has a rather selective perception. Metro 4 is not a level worth half a sentence. Of course, when it comes to cutting without any foundation, they are, of course, very courageous and are drawn to all sorts of totally unfounded statements. But let me say another thing, which was also not mentioned, but we know from our good friend about corruption, Mr Goodfriend, when he stood up and said that corruption in Hungary is unbearable because there is a huge tax, especially VAT, and then let us look at the numbers. The series of measures implemented by the government with the support of Fidesz and KDNP in seven years reduced the remaining VAT by 70%. We were able to bring in more than HUF 600 billion in tax revenues by introducing online cash registers, the electronic road registration system. [[Zoltán Pride: And the casinos! What about the old record? Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Andy Vajna!]] We have been able to reduce corruption with countless small steps, the reverse VAT system, and we are still at this level, and our intention is to reduce the black economy and corruption significantly below the former level of socialist governance in Hungary. Therefore, we will definitely take the most decisive action in the case of Metro 4, even if the opposition did not notice metro 4 specifically. [[14.20]] I'd like to talk to you about two more things. Once again, we have received what has been done many times, how many Hungarians have worked in different countries in Europe since our membership of the European Union, and that this is the government's fault, if any, if any, in this sense. The figures are not of interest here either: until 2004, 1990 to 2004, 244 thousand Hungarians worked - this number grew from zero to here - in the European Union countries; from 2004 to 2016, this figure went up to 360 thousand, of which 110 thousand daily commuters. If we compare its proportions, we need to see that this figure and this ratio are a part of European Union membership, every European country has a workforce that does not work at home. The outflow, quoted from England, is greater in proportion than from us, but the Germans work in the largest number not in their own country, and it would be hard to believe that 1.2 million Germans who do not work in Germany, but elsewhere, have gone because of the terrible misery, lack of prospects, economic hopelessness, hunger and a decline in security; unfortunately, the decline in security can now be seen as significant. Finally, I'd like to return to one thing. We have heard from the opposition once again that it is necessary to return to the two-key tax system, and let me always say... [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Three!]] Okay, now we have a three-key tax system, and we can only congratulate you. This means a brutal tax increase for the Hungarian people, which will certainly be unbearable. In the first year of the introduction of the single-key tax, Hungarians had 400 billion HUF more in their pockets because of tax rates and family tax incentives. You simply want to take this money away from the Hungarian people. We're not gonna let that happen. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-20-12	I respectfully ask the Prime Minister if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[On the signal of Viktor Orbán:]] Then I'll give you a return answer. Here you go.
u2017-02-20-13	Mr President, I myself wonder whether I should really react, because what has been said has not affected the validity of what I have to say; moreover, I see that although they seem to be talking to us, even in their physical nature, they are talking to each other. I see you're not talking about us, you're running against each other, you're running for your lives, you're trying to get into the next parliament. We see MSZP, LMP and Jobbik racing, and we serve only as experimental objects. I don't want to interfere, so if you want to compete in demagoguery, we're not gonna get in the way of that. What I can tell you is that if someone has been watching this debate, they have seen that in Hungary there is a working and responsible government and there is an irresponsible opposition; this is the case, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] In addition, I must say several times that the country's results, although there is still much to be done in this country, are not the results of the government. Of course, it wouldn't hurt the country to have a functioning government who knows what it's doing, has a programme, has decisions, executes them, it's never a problem, but basically success doesn't come from this, it's just a necessary precondition. The success of Hungary is due to the fact that people in Hungary have worked a lot in recent years, were willing to change, were willing to rethink their lives, were willing to do more work, were willing to adapt their own plans to the future ahead of Europe. They understood what they needed to be better at if we wanted the country to get ahead. I think they made the right decision and worked well, and when you are trying to attack us, I do not know why you do not realize that Hungarian people are being insulted, they are being looked at, they are being evaluated; when you get rid of the result that ten million people have achieved together in this country, you are not debating the success of the government - you do not see that? - but insult people who work every day. I think it's a stupid policy; it's not my job to give advice to the opposition, but believe me, it's not going anywhere. Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to ask you to appreciate the work of the Hungarians more; I would ask Mrs Szél Bernadett not to insult the teachers in particular, they deserve more respect than you have said. Ladies and Gentlemen, However, there are some serious, concrete matters that I think it might be worth discussing in rejoinders. The minimum wage. Although we are very proud of the decision on minimum wage, we would be happy to say that we have done this alone, but this is not the reality. This is a joint success: the minimum wage increase was regulated in an agreement with employers and employees. So anyone who claims that it is bad for the economy does not know what he is talking about, because the operators of the economy have concluded this agreement; they should talk to the Chamber and talk to the VOSZ, or talk to the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the ÁFEOSZ, those who signed this agreement with the trade unions. They knew exactly what they were signing, because they discussed it, they made the proposals. So the suggestions that this will be bad for a part of the economy, and so and so simply do not affect the government, are partly not real proposals, and, on the other hand, all these issues have been examined by the actors who are actually operating the economy, and they have then concluded an agreement, and it is our job to implement this. You're knocking on the wrong door if you're going to claim that the wage agreements that have been concluded are flawed and fall under the responsibility of the government. I think these are good agreements, by the way, we can be proud of them, and we will be proud of them in the coming years. Personally, as opposed to what I have heard here from the betterman, I would like to say that I do not know any government, even though I have seen them all since the change of regime, which would have raised wages to the same extent as the joint government of Christian Democrats and Fidesz. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Nándor Gúr: Oh, my God!]] I would like to say to the leader of the Socialist Group, with decreasing but still existing respect. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] When you talk about pensioners, please mention next time that it was you who took away the 13th month's pension. Speaking of retired people, I think it's right, because it's important. Why don't you tell us before you say anything, we'd like to tell you that we were the couple that took the pension away from the pensioners. In addition, there is also a factual error in what we have heard, because there is a legal order in Hungary today, and the legal order guarantees that pensions must never increase to a lesser extent than the rate of inflation. It's guaranteed by law, they get it, every penny the pensioners get what they deserve. So whoever claims that pensioners will receive fewer pensions than inflation is simply not telling the truth, because the law guarantees the opposite. Similarly, we are looking at the issue of energy. I'm glad that all of a sudden everyone's a refighter, we welcome you to the club, but while you're at it, perhaps you shouldn't say: we were the party that destroyed hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families by raising the rent, and we were the ones who promised before the election that there would be no gas price increase - and then they lifted it up and the families fell? Wasn't that you, respected socialists? [[Zoltán Pride: They paid less than they pay now!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, weren't you? Speaking of which, and we want to have a serious and fair debate, shouldn't we mention that? Now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear that Hungary will do everything in its power to ensure that the price of energy remains in the hands of the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian Government, so that our national sovereignty in this respect is not offended. I secretly hope that there are some people among you who will see this through, perhaps they will support us in this, despite the fact that they are sitting on opposition benches. I would just like to point out from the LMP's comments that Nepalese migrant workers do not feel like an immediate threat at the moment. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I'll be happy to deal with it as soon as they're up to speed. I still have to tell Congressman Vona, who told me not to hide behind Mr. Mayor Tarlos' skirts, that I don't usually hide behind other men's skirts, or I don't usually hide behind other men's skirts. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] As regards the issue of minimum wage, what is net plus gross, I would like to make it clear that the minimum wage for skilled workers in Hungary is HUF 107 thousand net, and in the case of the minimum wage, which is not for skilled workers, we can say that those raising children also have a minimum wage of HUF 100,000 net. [[14.30]] Ladies and Gentlemen, I think it is important to have a debate on reality, although I always feel strange when a countryman like me is being lectured on reality here in Parliament's building, but still, if you will allow me, I would like to tell you some facts, not macroeconomic numbers, Mrs Bernadett Wind, but micro numbers. So, if we ask whether from 2010 to 2015... - because we do not yet have a summary of the data from 16 - they are only from 15 - but I note in brackets that in the light of the economic developments of the 16 - those numbers will be better than the 15 - I think everyone can see this - in 2010 24.5 percent of Hungarian families were threatened by the fact that they could not pay any other debts related to credit repayment or housing. This decreased to 19 percent by 2015. This is also much, but much less than in 2010. In 2010, 74 percent of Hungarian families suffered from the fact that they did not cover unexpected expenses. This decreased from 74 per cent to 50 per cent by 2015, which is still high, but a significant decrease. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's not possible! Nándor Gúr: It is not enough to write on the paper! Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That is not true!]] In 2010, according to the relevant analyses of KSH, 23 percent of Hungarians had no car for financial reasons. This is now 20 percent, which is still high, but a significant decrease. Our families were characterized by the absence of a one-week holiday a year in 2010, 66 percent of our families. This decreased to 50 percent by 2015, which is still high, but a significant decrease. The lack of meat consumption every two days marked 29 percent of Hungarian families in 2010. That's 19 percent today. It's still high, but it's a significant drop. The lack of proper heating of the apartment marked the Hungarian families in 2010 by 12%, and by 2015 it went down to 9 percent. He's still tall, but he's much better than he was six years ago. [[Zoltán Grimlock: And how many were frozen?]] And for people who were hit by at least four of the financial problems at the same time, the proportion was 23.5 per cent in 2010, and now 16.2 per cent. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Who lied to this statistics?]] It's still a lot, but it's a lot better than it used to be. This is what I am saying, that you should not debate the results that the Hungarians themselves have achieved in recent years. Ladies and Gentlemen, Although I am a fan of the debates in style, I am sure that the god of vows must be similar to the god of giving, so I would like to say to the president of Jobbik that I understand that you are here yelling and angry because you are in trouble - this is how people who sell their party's soul are in trouble - but don't be mad at me for this. It would be good for Hungary to be a country whose only problem I am! [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: It is quite large!]] That's what I wish for all of us. But the thing is, don't get mad at me. You made an anti-Semitic party into a Philosemite party; you made an anti-EU party into an EU-friendly party; you turned an anti-immigration party into a pro-immigration party - of course people are mad at you! Don't be mad at me, it's your fault, ladies and gentlemen, and you personally, Mr President. As far as private business is concerned, I can say that the government has not, and has not, dealt with, these matters. However, I think it is important for you to comply with the laws; the model of Veerpataki should not be applied nationwide, that is my request. Because of what you're doing on Verpatak, the condo mafia can envy. I ask that your local representatives, as opposed to the poor people, do not pursue the policy they have begun. I mean, I'm asking you to abide by the law. And I would also remind us of the simple fact that today there is money for improvements and wage increases because we are not allowed to be stolen by guys like you. Hungary is strengthening today because you corrupt right-wing politicians are being held in opposition. And there will be money in Hungary as long as you are in opposition and you can't fit into the register. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: This was authentic from paper!]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[A big round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-20-14	Congressman Gábor Vona's name appeared on my monitor. Mr Gábor Vona, after you cannot make a point of order according to the house rules [[Viktor Orbán is leaving the Chamber.]] There may be only one reason for your application, which you informally shared with me, that he feels that he has been personally attacked, and he would like to answer that. By the way, this happened after the skirt metaphor was reciprocated, according to the monitor. Neither then nor since then do I feel that Mr. Gábor Vona's faction leader has been subjected to any unfair personal attack that exceeded... [[There's a rush in Jobbik's benches.]] the style and tone allowed by opposition representatives [[Dániel Z. Carpathian applauds. It's a rare applause from the Fidesz ranks.]] and which would justify even an objective request for a personal attack. So for my part, I don't think that's justified. The House Rules provide that in this case the plenum, the Parliament, will decide without debate, so I ask the House whether, at the end of the speeches outside the agenda, Gábor Vona wishes to speak on the grounds of personal attack. If you do, please let me know by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. Who doesn't? (Vote.) The latter is the visible majority. So Congressman Gábor Vona... [[Intercom from Jobbik: Long live democracy!]] With all due respect, democracy usually lives through rules, and I try to comply with those rules. So, then, we will move on to the pre-arranged line of comments before the agenda. First, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, from the group of the MSZP, who will give his statement before the agenda entitled "The Ministry of Inhumanity" after our less interested fellow Members leave the meeting room quietly and very quickly. [[It's a short break. Some Members leave the Chamber.]] Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-02-20-15	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, More than 730 days ago, the programme of support for the poor on which the European Union gave HUF 30 billion should be in place. This is about one-tenth of the cost of an Olympic, and about a hundred thousand times the cost of a child's one-year-old child, and as much as the government gives the municipalities a year to help the poorest. So it's a lot of money. Unfortunately, the Hungarian government, which, if necessary, will rewrite the Fundamental Law in one day, or in one day, will push through the law that allowed István Tiborcz and the parents and children of the ministers to start public procurements, will not be able to launch a program to support the needy in two years. More and more, it seems that the operational programme to support people in need has also become a financier project. The government is completely oblivious to the situation of people living in poverty, its social sense is zero. Either bad professionals work in these places, or terrible leadership of these organizations. How is it possible that a government decision on the programme was announced at least five times, a programme for the distribution of food packages to ten thousand families? You wanted to have an Olympics when you couldn't start a 30 billion-dollar program in two years? It's a serious situation, Mr. Secretary. Zoltán Balog clearly doesn't care about this whole area, he's gone now. And Bence Rétvári, Minister of State for Politheist, learned so much about the role of his predecessor, János Halász, that even when confronted with obvious facts, he speaks falsely. I'm warning you, don't do it now, Mr. Secretary. People aren't stupid. The working poor know that their wages fell because they taxed the minimum wage to the super-righteous in a single-key tax system. Children's families know that in the last seven years, you haven't raised the family allowance, the child, the child, the maternity allowance, the minimum pension. This means a depreciation of at least 40%. The disabled know that you with your improvised courts have taken or reduced their care from tens of thousands of people. The poorest families know that you have abolished housing support, equity public health care, care fees, regular social assistance. [[14.40]] The programme to feed and clothe the poorest families, including the disabled children, should have been launched in 2015 as promised by the government. Your estimate is that among children aged 0-3, the number of children receiving regular child protection benefits is 55-60 thousand, so the government has damaged the lives of so many children. These children are now 3 years old, so they cannot be part of the program. You might consider playing with lives and fates. Orbán's system constantly recreates hopelessness, even though in the first place they should help 10,000 children in regions in need of priority, Borsod, Szabolcs and Hajdú-Bihar. Although the public procurement procedure has already been issued for their food packages, it has not yet been completed. The food programme of socially deprived people with changed working skills and extremely low-income elderly people does not even go anywhere. The latter are responsible for the successful National Rehabilitation and Social Office, whose most important activity in recent years has been the flailing of the disabled, the taking and reducing of their care. They have been asked to now help those who have been destroyed by this office into poverty. But they were so absurd in the preparation. In 2015, there was a time when pregnant mothers who received housing support were members of the target group, while you had already abolished this support. They wanted to claim a non-existent benefit. Seriously, are you guys that stupid? [[Deterioration from the benches of the MSZP.]] They have no idea, nothing, they are talking nonsense, and they are unable to put together a program that is professionally appropriate and appropriate to the bureaucracy they create, Mr. Secretary of State. The most outrageous thing about this whole thing is that again, it's just the hush-hushing thing. The partial failure of public procurement means one thing: that theftcasting was ineffective, that is, Fidesz did not find the stromant who could steal some of the funds and pay them to the Fidesz register as a constitutional cost. Fidesz is willing to give the money to the needy only after they have decided who can steal half of the money. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Dear Secretary of State, Who's responsible? I would like to ask you when Minister Balog will answer this question...
u2017-02-20-16	Congresswoman, your time is up.
u2017-02-20-17	.......................................................................................................................................... And if you can't answer, cancel. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-20-18	Secretary of State, please.
u2017-02-20-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, When the socialists talk about solidarity, when the socialists talk about helping people living in difficult circumstances, I always remember the hunger march organised by the Socialist Party, which was organized in the pocket of the person who organized the hunger procession, a bank statement with a balance of hundreds of millions of HUF. He led the hunger march without really knowing which Austrian bank he was transferring the money he had never made in any binding declaration. This is how the socialists organised the hunger process, and this is the credibility of the socialists' orientation towards those in need. But we also remember, honourable Member, when you speak of insensibility or inhumanity, you also started your political career by saying no to Hungarians across the border on billboards. Then somehow he was not sensitive to Hungarians across the border, so he didn't want to be in the same community with them. At the time, this kind of humanity, human attitude, was somehow not typical of you, but rather very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very much. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó's intervention.]] in caracan, very firmly, following Ferenc Gyurcsány's first call, he immediately gave his face to reject Hungarians across the border. And then, in Parliament, he talks about the fact that, in the context of the programme in which Hungary is taking the lead compared to other countries of the European Union, and the European Union acknowledged that the head of the relevant Directorate-General was here when this program started and the first food packages, the first food was given to homeless people who could get food more than once a week to get hot food. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély's continuous interventions.]] Then he was also involved in these divisions to see exactly how it was formed. Obviously, he was pleased with the results that Hungary had achieved, and that is why he came here, because he was able to go to few other EU countries to be there at the opening point of this food package program. Fortunately, Hungary is one of the first to go through this huge bureaucracy, as you know that this is a European Union support along with your bureaucratic mazes. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Where is the money?]] And I think it is an important recognition for Hungary, it is an important recognition for the Hungarian people that we were among the first in this programme, and this has been confirmed by EU participation. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Of course, we are so poor...]] But we remember solidarity in socialist times when you did everything you could to help the people in need - I stress the quotation sign - when you wanted to make health care pay so that you wouldn't go to so many people to be treated, not to go to the doctor or stay in the hospital, pay hospital allowances, pay visits. During those periods, you dismissed health workers or closed down educational and health institutions - helping those in need was somehow not so important. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó's intervention.]] The social sense of the socialists was not so high even when the minimum wage had to be raised, as the minimum wage was only raised by half or three times a year, as during the first Orbán government before them, or during the second or third Fidesz-KDNP administration. Thus, the wages of the most low earners have been increased to a much lesser extent. Then perhaps you should have shown solidarity and helped these people, even because they had to spend this money, because you have raised the price to double and triple both electricity and gas. Then maybe you should have paid more attention to helping these people, but you couldn't. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: Where is the 30 billion?]] I just couldn't keep an eye on the pensioners the same way. They also took a month's wages, as they took it from nurses, took it from the police, took it from public servants and everyone else who works in the public sector, you took a month's wages. Once again, you spoke against the single-key tax system, Congresswoman. We know what this means when the socialists attack the single-key tax. That means they want more keys. That means they want higher keys. This means that more money would be taken from people who work, who live on wages and salaries, they would take money from the Hungarian people. We know why they did it before. However, in order to provide certain foreign companies, whether in the field of public services or elsewhere, with huge, high profits, which they were able to make out of the country, whether as suppliers of food stamps or as owners of utilities, at electricity prices, gas prices or at other prices. You took this money from the Hungarian people, either because they were paid less wages, or because they were hit with higher taxes. [[Nándor Gúr's intervention.]] However, they allowed foreign companies to move these amounts out of the country. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó's intervention.]] But sooner or later, all of their cases were revealed, as the OLAF report revealed their biggest corruption case in their own period. I think you'll have a lot to account for the ten billion that have been said here, or the sum of over 100 billion forints that have disappeared in connection with the purchase of Metro 4 [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by taping the bell.]] a super hospital could have been built to wonder where it landed. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Interview from the benches of the MSZP: Where is the 30 billion? Nándor Gúr's intervention.]]
u2017-02-20-20	Now it's time for Congressman Ákos Hadházy, on behalf of the LMP: What does the 266151 sign say? It's an address. Here you go.
u2017-02-20-21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At the end of the last week, we learned that we have managed to collect as many signatures as necessary for the referendum that will or should be about the Olympics. The LMP is very happy about this, because LMP was the parliamentary party that has opposed this idea since the very beginning of this idea, with rather clear reasons. And we are very happy with this result, because we believe that this is the victory of common sense. We are going to have a lot to talk about on this subject, obviously we will need to talk more. I would like to highlight one aspect, and that is that a few months ago, the polls showed that 50-50 percent of people were still in favour or opposed to this Olympics, perhaps even a little bit more opposed. However, after learning these facts, which we have said and many have said, the majority of people today are opposed to the Olympics, based on polls. This is a very, very important polling result, and it has a very, very important message for us, for the opposition and for the government. We have seen a huge propaganda campaign on this subject, and the government has already spent billions of forints to promote the settlement of the Hungarian Olympics - this has not been successful. This shows that at present there are still so many press, there are still so many independent press where reason can appear, and there is a way to translate people's thinking; they can find out things the government wants them not to find out. For example, the subject of corruption. All polls show that the Hungarian people are increasingly aware of the problem; they are aware of the level of corruption; they are aware that it has never been as big as it is today in Hungary - this is shown by the polls and we all feel it. [[14.50]] You feel that there is still press today, there is still a voice of common sense today, but I do not want that. It doesn't make much sense to come into Parliament today, because laws are practically brought in one day and can be voted on the next day. Everyone knows there's no point in saying any sense here, and they're gonna vote for it anyway, but sometimes there are things we hear, and it's worth hearing. For example, when a Fidesz Member tells us that the Prime Minister wants silence in 2017. He wants quiet, he doesn't want to talk about corruption; let's not talk about unpleasant topics for the government. Obviously, the processes that continue to grind the press, buy the press with dirty money or government money will continue. The propaganda continues, the roaring success propaganda that is advertised on huge posters, but very often the small small prints, the starry parts are missing, for example, when they say that 1 million jobs have been created, but they do not say that the 1 million were not created in Hungary. These propaganda spendings, the propaganda of the propaganda industry, are virtually unfaithful treatment, because Hungarian reforms, for example, either work or do not work. But if they work, there's no point in promoting this, and if they don't work, there's certainly no point in promoting them. In Hungary, propaganda takes place today at the same speed as in the Rákosi system, in the communist system. There was propaganda shouting that they wanted silence, but they couldn't reach it there either. They will not achieve silence here either, but it can be said that when we talk about the 2018 election, the election will not be fair, because the system in which the government has spent billions of forints in unfaithful treatment, as I said, propaganda, success propaganda, and the opposition has much less money for this, is not fair, as is the choice where hundreds of thousands of Hungarians are not allowed to vote in the letter, even though it is the same Hungarian people who are in Transylvania or in the South, but do not allow them to vote in the letter. We have to do everything we can to stop this propaganda. But we will also tell you that if it stays that way, there will be no silence, just as there was no silence in Rakosi's time. People have told you what the truth is, and we tell you what the truth is, and people are going to tell you what the truth is. If it happens to be quiet, it'll be nothing but the silence before the storm. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-20-22	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2017-02-20-23	Honourable Congressman, By stating that freedom of the press is working in Hungary, I agree to a great deal, and I would like to ask you to inform the other left-wing Members about this before they go back to Brussels to report Hungary. In addition, allow me to see your speech as a single left-wing position. I do so because, as you know, you also attend joint left-wing discussions, even if you do not always inform your fellow parties. By the way, he speaks with sympathy about László Botka's candidacy as Prime Minister. That means that if it were up to you, you'd take the LMP into the big left-wing collusion and sacrifice the LMP with better hopes. On the issue of the Olympics: allow me to start with a quote in an unusual way. The quote reads:. The Olympics in Budapest can connect people, it can be a very powerful catalyst for our economy and our faith. We need it to make the Hungarians optimistic again, which is not a party political issue. Sports can be a national minimum, and the Olympics also serve it. No one else said that, like Ágnes Kunhalmi, president of the MSZP in Budapest, and because he didn't laugh about it, I take it from the fact that he meant it. Other left-wing leaders said likewise. The left, honourable Member, supported the Olympics not only in words but also in actions. The proposal was decided by the Metropolitan Assembly, and the government gave all the support for it. I would like to remind you that when the vote took place, the left supported this proposal almost without exception. There was a consensus, a consensus on which the tender could be submitted, because the political consensus is a prerequisite for every Olympic tender. However, this consensus was kicked out by left-wing parties, took a 180-degree turn and turned a national matter into a party political matter. Meanwhile, all the public figures there stood unitedly for the Paris and American competition. This 180-degree turn on the left resulted in a radical decline in the chances of the Budapest tender. In this situation, further action must now be considered. I would like to make it clear that the left has the clear responsibility for the situation, and now the left has to explain why they attacked the proposal that they had previously supported. As regards the state of the country - because it has also said a few words about it - allow me to highlight a few things, also because opposition parties forget these measures and developments in their comments. The economy is strong, and economic growth can be 4 percent this year. The wage increases continue, the minimum wage increased by 15 percent in January, the minimum wage by 25 percent, the doctors receive a salary increase of 207,000 forints in several steps, and the wages of nurses may rise by 65 percent. By the way, it was nurse's day at the end of the week, and I would also like to thank all the nurses for their hard and sacrificial work. Tax reductions are also continuing, which is why corporate tax, employer tax have been significantly reduced, and therefore the VAT on key foods and VAT on the Internet has been significantly reduced. I am simply saying, Mr President, that the left and your party have not voted in favour of these tax cuts. Honourable Congressman, I regret that, when you talk about the situation in this country, you will have these fundamental measures carried out, which, by the way, can provide substantial help in the lives of millions of people, and I regret that you will join those who break national consensus in party interest. Another reason why we should continue to fight for Hungary's strength in a double force. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-20-24	László Szászfalvi, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, will now be next with the title "Reformation 500." Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-02-20-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On October 31, 1517, Martin Luther pointed his 95 movements at the gate of the castle church in Wittenberg, and the spiritual and social renewal process, called Reformation, began. This year we remember the 500-year history, movement, outstanding personalities of the Reformation; we remember and celebrate. But in this festive jubilee year, we want to take on new forces, raise our heads, seize the chance of spiritual and social renewal, and look into the future with hope. So, remembering and safekeeping, but also remembering and building the future. Dear House, Reformation is the spiritual and social renewal movement that led back to the foundation, which has left a deep impression both in European and world history and in the history of Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin. It is quite obvious that the essence of the Reformation can be grasped in its theological, religious message. The most concise ones are Sola Fidei, Sola Scriptura, Solus Christus, Sola Gratia and Soli Deo Gloria. As a result, the Reformation carried the divine experience of personal faith and the possibility of social renewal at the same time. Personal spirituality of faith, and together, therefore, community, social, public responsibility. The Reformation has had a social, political, economic and cultural impact that, to date, determines and influences our thinking, values, culture, and even our institutional, organizational and economic life. The theologian Alister McGrath, in his book Calvin, goes to Calvin and Reformation as a force for western culture and society. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, The Reformation spread very quickly in Hungary already in the 16th century. In the first half of the century, and it brought about a radical change and renewal that - we can safely say - played a fundamental role in the survival of Hungarians: our Hungarian mother tongue, our national culture, our publishing, our school system, our national identity and independence, and the preservation and preservation of our national sovereignty. [[15.00]] It is enough to mention only those Hungarian reformers who have served spiritual renewal, the creation of a Hungarian native language culture and the survival of our Hungarians with their dedicated and determined work. Without completeness: János Szilveszter, Gáspár Károli, Gál Huszár, Mihály Sztáray, Albert Szenczi Molnár or Mátyás Dévai Bíró. The strength and significance of the Reformation, which has lasted so far, were most briefly summarized by Gyula Illyés, a Catholic religion, in his poem entitled Before the Memorial of the Reformation in Geneva. I quote: "Do you believe that there would be any kind of Hungarianism if there were not - Calvin? / I don't think so. Dear Secretary of State, On behalf of the KDNP fraction, I welcome and thank the government for its commitment to prepare this Jubilee year, it has established the Reformation Memorial Committee, which has implemented and implemented countless national, regional and local programmes throughout the Carpathian Basin, and supports and supports them. The government, the Memorial Committee, together with the churches, is working to prevent the 500th Memorial Year of Reformation from being separated, but to connect all Hungarian people and communities to join and strengthen all the forces that wish to serve the spiritual and communal renewal of Hungary and the Hungarians of the Carpathian Basin as a guarantee of the survival of the nation. We believe and wish that in this spirit half a millennia of Reformation will fulfill its mission and fulfill its vocation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-20-26	Once again, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2017-02-20-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Allow me to reply as a Catholic to your speech before the agenda, and I shall begin as a Catholic with a quote from Martin Luther:. The scripture is like a herb, the more you rub it, the more it smells. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. As you yourself pointed out, honourable Member, 500 years ago, in 1517, Martin Luther, a young monk, created a completely new path for all of Europe or the world, as he brought about a global change that led to a later flourishing Hungarian language, a significant increase in the culture of Hungarian culture and many other European nations. Many put the renewal of the Catholic Church on their flag before Luther, even thinking of the Franciscans, but after centuries, Martin Luther began to do so. All the beliefs that he nailed to the door of the Wittenberg temple 500 years ago have an impact on man's everyday, farming, family and community life, work, vocation and culture. The new ideas came and spread to Hungary through the mediation of merchants, students, priests, first in the free royal and mining cities of the Highlands, then in the Saxon territories of Transylvania, later in more and more areas of the country. One of the great merits of the Reformation in Hungary is the preaching in the mother tongue and the preparation of scriptures in the national language, which also had a major impact on education. The new translation of the testament by John Sylvester, the complete translation of the Bible by Gáspár Károli, the Bible of Vizsolya made it possible for more and more people to study God's Word directly and freely. The Reformation boosted the printing industry, the printed works contributed greatly to the creation of the Hungarian language in literature, the unification of spelling, as well as significant artistic value. The characteristic feature of the era is that all the great Reformed ones were also great writers. In connection with the Jubilee, it is important to emphasise the outstanding role played by the Protestant colleges that have continued since the Reformation, such as the Debrecen, Papal or Sárospatak College in the history of Hungarian and universal culture, in the preservation and flowering of Hungarian culture, as a spiritual center. The cultural, spiritual, spiritual and scientific surplus that the Reformation has brought social, economic and further changes to Europe and the world must also be made aware of in Hungarian society. It must be made known in the members of believing communities, in the masses on the periphery of the ecclesiastical world, but also in those far away from Christianity. This is not just a matter of a God - seeking individual, it is not just a matter of churches proclaiming the word of God. This is the whole Hungarian society, the nation's common cause and responsibility. Europe's image, culture and civilization have been largely defined by the Reformation, whose 500 years of jubilee is an important opportunity and opportunity for our country to fully understand our Christian, Christian and national past and build our future based on these values. The work of the Reformers was limited not only to theology, but also in the fields of culture, politics, economy, music and law and still has its effect. Reformation, which is a major factor in the socio-economic life of Europe and the world, has also contributed greatly to the creation of our national identity and culture. In Hungary, the 16th edition is published in the Official Journal of the European Union. The ideas of the Reformation, the Hungarian-language worships and Bible translations spread throughout the centuries of Turkish rule, and the survival of the Hungarian language, thus the Hungarian nation. Of course, Reformation, like any process of renewal or change, has caused wounds and pains. The 500-year anniversary commemoration is also about serious struggles, wars, religious disputes, bloody events and divisions. But we are pleased that the churches today turn to each other with mutual apology and repentance, and find the majority of the points that connect them, and together they can thank for purification and renewal. Pope Francis, in many of his manifestations, appreciated the Reformation, which today is not about separation, but about joint renewal and cooperation, which can benefit all our country and our people. That's why the government announced the Memorial of Reformation on the 500th anniversary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-20-28	Thank you. The reduction in overhead costs is a national matter! Mr Szilárd Németh, member of the Fidesz faction, will now address his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-02-20-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán stressed that we will need a new national policy in 2017. In the first half of the year, he added that Brussels wants to ban the reduction of the rent, their plan is already on the table, and they want central regulation instead of country's independent energy policy, which would take away Member States' pricing rights. The question will be whether we will defend the reduction of the rent, stick to our right to set prices, or accept Brussels' decision, and let large companies once again have the right to set the premium. Ladies and gentlemen, These sentences also show that big debates and battles are expected, so we must join forces with people. We need to know what the Hungarians want, and we need to pursue a new national policy in which we continue to represent the interests of the Hungarian people and Hungary, whether against Brussels bureaucrats or international capital. Therefore, at the Visegrád meeting of the Fidesz-KDNP faction, we decided to launch a national consultation on the five most important national issues mentioned in the Prime Minister's annual statement, which we have also heard here: on state aid for job creation, tax reduction policy and its national ownership, on illegal immigrants and on the influence of foreign agents helping illegal immigrants to invade Europe, and on the protection of the reduction of wages. In these national matters, it is worth in any way to establish a common consensus with the citizens of Hungary, some kind of unity of opinion. The Parliament may remember that in 2013, after the first reduction of the rent, a brutal attack on the policy of reducing the rent was struck. A few months after the 10 percent announcement, the Hungarian court was practically telling the truth to foreign capital. [[15.10]] At that time, Hungary did not allow itself to be signed by two and a half million people with their names and addresses, with the courage of taking on the common cause, and it was able to defend the 10 percent reduction in the amount of the rent at that time, and at that time it was only three areas of gas, district heating and power supply. Since then, the stakes have been much higher, since there have been three stages of the reduction in electricity, 25 percent less domestic gas, water and electricity supply, and seven more reductions have been made in seven different sectors, remembering water and sewerage charges, the fee for snorkeling, the fee for bottled gas, the supply of garbage and the now completely free sweep of chimneys. So now the risk is much, much higher. And, by the way, here is the new attack that is waiting for Hungary, because Brussels has announced that it will not virtually allow any Member State to use the right to set prices, so that it can keep the possibility, by the way, in national jurisdiction, that we have been able to implement and maintain the full reduction over the last four years. Whatever the socialist representatives say here, the problem is not only that the price of gas has increased by 206 percent in their time, the price of electricity by 97 percent, the opportunity to raise it fifteen times, but also the problem is that people who have made the whole increase possible, and those who have now tried to refer to world market prices, who have raised prices the best in Hungary at the steep reduction in 2008. They are still pursuing Brussels' policy. Even now, if we go out to Brussels, we hear that socialist representatives or DK representatives argue that Hungary's right to set prices, the right to the public price, which we use in the universal service, should be taken away. We call on the Government to continue to represent the policy of reducing costs and its most important instrument, the price-setting policy held in national competence, so strongly in Brussels. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-20-30	I give Mr János Fónagy the opportunity to respond. Here you go.
u2017-02-20-31	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In recent years, there has been a lot of talk about the reduction of the rent, and perhaps our ears are used to that concept, and we don't really get the hang of it when it comes to that. Allow me to repeat a few, many times, but perhaps the usual terms. That's right, before 2010, socialist governments tripled the price of gas, doubling the price of electricity, putting hundreds of thousands of small consumer households, small consumer families, who were otherwise vulnerable, in an impossible situation. This had to be changed after 2010. These changes are what we now refer to as a summary reduction in the amount of the rent. What does that concept mean? Ladies and gentlemen, Between 1 January 2013 and the end of December 2016, Hungarian households saved about HUF 910 billion, so we held nearly HUF 1000 billion in the budget of Hungarian households. The reduction of overhead costs also had a very good impact on the debts previously accumulated, many hundreds of thousands of households were weighed down by the lack of overhead costs and the risk of shutdown. Both the amount of debts and the number of behind-the-counter consumers have decreased significantly in recent years. The sum of gas, electricity and district heating bills fell from 2012 to 16 by 48 percent and nearly half - this sentence has been said today - it is still a lot, but still half of what it was before. Over the period indicated, the number of late households and the number of off-line users decreased by about 45 percent and by 31 percent. Since then, the government has consistently and without interruption said that one of our most important objectives is to preserve the results of the reduction of the rent. Our goal is to reduce these costs, not just by preserving them. Only what this means in relation to European countries: the consumer prices of electricity and gas in the European Union increased by an average of 20 per cent between 2010 and 15 per cent. Energy prices have only decreased in countries where regulatory price rules are applied, such as Malta, Slovakia, Cyprus and Hungary. This was also acknowledged by the Vice-President of the European Union responsible for the Energy Union. Here, I would like to note and draw the attention of my socialist fellow Members to asking at least their own energy experts when comparing prices to each other, and not always referring to momentary spot prices as a comparison, but rather to medium- and long-term energy prices. It is incredibly irresponsible to compare the price trend of several years to a momentary stock price, whether it is rising or falling. Ladies and gentlemen, It is no coincidence that my fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, brought it up, and in today's Prime Minister's Expo, the first priority was to protect the result of the reduction of the rent. By bringing price regulation into EU competence, the European Union virtually deprives nation states of the possibility of setting energy price levels for their own society. For my part and for the government's part, I therefore ask that you take part in these actions and help the government to stop this European Union's intention to adversely affect the entire Hungarian society. Welcome, everyone. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-20-32	Today's series of speeches before the agenda will be closed by Mr János Volner, leader of the Group, on Jobbik's part: what country will Jobbik build after the 2018 elections have been won? It's an address. Here you go.
u2017-02-20-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In the past short period, the government has suffered two serious failures, and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán personally has suffered two serious failures. One failure occurred when 98 percent of the Hungarian people supported a total national issue and managed to turn the vote on the migration quota into an invalid referendum, which was invalid in public law, to make the Hungarian people say no to Viktor Orbán and not to migration. The second case was the case of the Olympic initiative, where the also strongly pro-Olympian Hungarian population said no to Viktor Orbán personally and to the government he led simply because the Hungarian people feared that if the Olympics were organised, Fidesz would steal the Olympics as much as all similar large investments have so far taken place in corruption cases. It is very important to fix that the government does not wonder if the issue of Paks enlargement will be the next campaign theme for left-wing political forces, and they will also make a successful referendum. This is thanks to you, too, because you were the ones who went to Moscow to negotiate this agreement in secret, without any professional discussions, and concluded an agreement behind the country's back, and then encrypted virtually fifty details of the big project, which is the largest order of the Hungarian economy. If this happens, and the left will reconvene in a referendum against the Paks enlargement, the government will be responsible for this too, because people are also afraid that Fidesz will steal this enlargement if it is implemented. [[15.20]] This is the policy that drives young people out of Hungary. Because of this policy, emigration has more than doubled compared to 2010 and the fact that our people are going to pay taxes, to create value in Western Europe, because in Hungary the conditions of life seem to be becoming increasingly unlivable to young people. It is important to record what country we want. First of all, Jobbik would like a country where not Árpád Habony, Lőrincek Mészáros, Tibor Garancsi and not people of the Prime Minister's direct friendship, business and kinship interests grow to the fastest extent, they do not accumulate superbillions in a row, but those people whose entrepreneurial talents really put in the position where they are and not the government tailwind. We want a country where the Prime Minister's child does not go to Bahrain to discuss oil and gas matters without any authorisation where this cannot happen. We want a country where rudeness and corruption are not brought to the top by the government as you do, Mr. Secretary of State. What's it like to call their main political opponent gay? This alpári style in the Hungarian Parliament, in Hungarian politics, until your boss, Viktor Orbán, has desecrated political public life [[L. Simon László: What? Who?]] It wasn't fashionable. We didn't do that. Nobody. Even the socialists didn't do that because they didn't have the guts, they didn't have the nose. You have fallen as low as no one has ever done in Hungarian politics. [[Noise in the pro-government benches.]] It's important to have accountability at last. You can also see from metro 4 that the government refuses to carry out any accountability on its own. They are now knocking on their heads from Brussels to try to hold thieves accountable at all. It is important to see that the anti-corruption prosecutor's office needs to be done, to be accounted for. One more very important thing, Mr. Secretary. I know that you have legalized not a type of corruption with a small part of the active government, with parliamentary assistance. That is why I say that we need a legal solution to take back the money that your government backwind and the Fidesz Members of Parliament have been able to obtain from the government, which has been rich in recent years, in the form of an oligarchist tax. We need to tax these people in a way that makes them black, and the money that we are going to take back in this way, for the people's purposes, for education, for health care, for pensioners, for the future. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-02-20-34	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-02-20-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I, too, listened very curiously to your speech, even because your party president said earlier that he had taken the party's soul, and you want to know what suggestions a party has to make that doesn't have a soul. We don't know what kind of world a Jobbik government would come to, but I'm sure tax frauds want it. After all, there is a better-looking leader who has passed over his companies with considerable public debt without having been held accountable for it. Maybe this is the place to start accounting. We don't know what kind of world would come during a better governance, but we're assuming that you would actually build on the vascular model. Because you made an agreement with a mayor who you're investigating because he acquired real estate through misleading contracts and trickery. We don't know what kind of world it would be, but even the condo mafia could envy it, really. We just hope that during a better administration, the mayors shouldn't be sitting half-naked in their offices, like the Ozd mayor did, we still don't know why. Dear Chief of Staff, When a party who considers itself responsible talks about its future plans, it is appropriate to take them seriously, to listen to them, to examine how well these proposals and proposals are justified. In the case of a responsible party based on principle, this would be the case. But these conditions for Jobbik, unfortunately, are not given. Technically, the attic is full of cases where Jobbik overrided its own former principles. Just a few examples without the need for completeness. It was the Jobbik who had promised land distribution before, and then attacked the land by force to the farmers! It's a program. [[Zoltán Haughty: Because it wasn't!]] It was the Jobbik who pulled you out of the quota referendum campaign. If you, as you said, really wanted the quota vote to succeed, then tell me why you didn't campaign. Then why is it that when it was clear, it was 98 percent [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Did you campaign, Csaba?]] the result of the referendum, why have they not voted in favour of the resulting constitutional amendment? And they didn't vote for it by considering the non-voting of the basic law amendment to be equal by treason. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: You spent the state's money, not yours!]] Jobbik was the one referring to Hungarian businesses, but its president did not vote in favour of tax reduction measures at the end of last year, which led to a reduction in, among other things, corporate tax and a number of additional taxes. To continue the line: you spoke of Islam as humanity's last hope, and then a better local government adopts an anti-Islamic decree. The Jobbik, by the way, talks about transparency by putting up with a spy in their ranks. But to give you one more talkative example: your party wrote a kind letter on the occasion of Hanukkah, so that you can still sit in your ranks by the representative who spit in the shoes on the banks of the Danube and then encouraged others to do so. The MSZP is listening to this case. No wonder Jobbik's membership is now completely confused. This change is no longer understood by your members, which is why the basic organizations are disbanding from Vámosmikola to New Whiteton to Nagybörzsöny. That's the consequence. Mr. Fraction Manager, It is quite clear that Jobbik has become a party capable of anything for money and power and the opposite. Every day, their former principles are overwritten, while the party president's greatest achievement is to self-indulgent with a goat. This may go away when you're a teenager, but it's not enough to lead a people's party. Anyway, I wish you good work for the spring session, less kitten selfies and more souls. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-02-20-36	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2017-02-20-37	Dear Parliament, On this day, Mr Sebestyén Vágó, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; István Szávay, Jobbik; István Ikotity, LMP. On Tuesday, the following representatives came forward to address the agenda: László Szakács, MSZP; Péter Harrach, KDP; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Erik Bánki, Fidesz; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik. István Ikotity, LMP applied for the speech after the agenda on Tuesday. No one came forward after the agenda on Wednesday.
u2017-02-20-38	Ladies and gentlemen, I declare that all Members and spokespersons from 199 MPs and 13 spokespersons have submitted their own and their family's declarations of property within the deadline. Declarations of property are public in the case of Members and Spokespersons and can be viewed on the National Assembly's website. I declare that all Members of Parliament and advocates can exercise their rights. Dear House, President János Áder sent a transcript to Parliament on the termination of the term of State Secretary and the appointment of new State Secretarys. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present these.
u2017-02-20-39	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the Parliament that Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 54. On the basis of Article 4 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I concluded that this mandate of László Tasó, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Development, will be terminated with effect from 7 February 2017. In addition, Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law, as well as Article 200 XLIII of the year on central government administrations and on the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys. Law 52. On the basis of paragraph 2 of the Act on the proposal of the Prime Minister, with effect from 8 February 2017, Dr. Róbert Homolya was appointed State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office by the Ministry of National Development, László Tasó. Budapest, 6 February 2017 Sincerely: János Áder
u2017-02-20-40	Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate the Secretary of State and wish you every success in your work. I would like to inform you that Congresswoman Márta Demeter has resigned from the MSZP Group with effect from 1 February 2017 and is continuing her work as an independent Member. Dear House, I would like to inform you that no consensus was reached at last week's meeting of the House Committee on the proposed working schedule of the 2017 Spring Session of the Parliament, and therefore Parliamentary Act 13. Pursuant to paragraph 6 of Section 6 of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the working order. [[15.30]] The working schedule was available to my fellow Members on the website. I would like to inform you that Parliamentary Act 13. Pursuant to Article 7 of the Rules of Procedure, one representative per group of Members and the first independent representative to be heard shall be entitled to a maximum of three minutes' contributions. I'll ask if anyone wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] In accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article, one representative per group of representatives and the first independent representative to take the floor shall be entitled to a maximum of three minutes' contributions following the presentation of the question under discussion. I'll ask if anyone wants to take the opportunity to speak. (No one's reporting. ) If not, please take your seats and check your cards. I ask the honourable Parliament whether it accepts the proposed working schedule of the spring session. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House adopted the proposal for a working order by 111 votes to 43, without abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the government has submitted a legislative programme for the spring session, which interested parties have been able to learn on the IT network. The State Audit Office has put forward its recommendation, which is also available here. Dear Parliament, At the meeting of the House Committee, all political groups agreed that, in the same way as previous practice, Parliament should adopt speeches outside the agenda and a derogation from house rules in relation to issues during the interpellation period. Proposal for a derogation from house rules H/14053. You can get to know him on the website. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to explain the substance of this.
u2017-02-20-41	Dear Parliament, The House Committee initiates the Parliament to adopt its agenda for several weeks at its spring session in 2017:1. be entitled to speak outside the political groups' agenda on the next day of the second week of the meeting, as set out in the agenda. The intention to speak shall be notified no later than the opening of the first sitting of the second week.2. in the course of the discussion of the questions, depart from the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Decision in such a way that, on the second week of the sitting, only the question which was submitted on the working day preceding the sitting shall be discussed at 9.30 a.m.
u2017-02-20-42	Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. I ask the House whether H/14053. For derogations from house rule No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House adopted the proposal for a derogation from house rules by 153 votes in favour, 3 against and without abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, Mr. János Volner's name is on the monitor as an order of business candidate. I would ask you to put forward a point of order, if that is your intention.
u2017-02-20-43	Thank you, Mr. President. I propose that Mr President convene the House Committee in order to discuss how much he can fit into the Hungarian political culture, which Prime Minister said to my party president, Gábor Vona [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: He didn't say it, he usually said it.]] and request a resolution at the House Committee meeting [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I believe it is offensive and it is different from the Hungarian political traditions to call on our political opponents. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Intercoms from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-20-44	Look, Mr. Group Leader, I will, of course, call a meeting of the House Committee at the end of the interpellation period, despite the fact that I do not fully understand what you are talking about. [[István Szávay: It is quite clear!]] Nothing has been said in the Prime Minister's reply that would literally not have been said in Mr Vona's speech. But let's discuss it. If you have the political advantage of discussing Gábor Vona's gender identity, then I will not be an obstacle. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties. György Sziâlágyi intervenes.]] I didn't hear that, Congressman. So if he yells, it doesn't change the situation. We're gonna take a look at the record of what was said, and then we're gonna talk about it, and then we're gonna talk about it, and then we're gonna figure out who's gonna draw your own conclusions. It's your job to decide what's good for you politically, and I'm trying to stick to house rules. I'll call the House Committee, as you requested, and then we'll see what comes out of this. Therefore, in the absence of a House Committee agreement, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making. According to the proposal put forward by the President, the National Assembly is responsible for the situation of the agricultural economy in 2015 B/13320. The designated committee shall be invited to take its decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the designated Committee on Agriculture will be invited by B/13320. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the motion by 113 votes to 40, with no abstentions. We are now deciding on personal suggestions. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the S/14074. The content of the personal proposal.
u2017-02-20-45	Section 1: 13/2014 on the establishment of parliamentary committees, the election of its officials and members. Point 1 of the OGY Decision is amended as follows. The National Assembly elects Árpád Velez - MSZP - member of the Committee, Márta Demeter - independent - to become a member of the Committee. Point 2: This Decision shall enter into force upon its adoption.
u2017-02-20-46	Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts S/14074. Number 2, as has just been said. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House unanimously adopted the proposal by 155 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, It is up to you to discuss and decide on immunity issues. I would like to inform you that the Pest Central District Court is responsible for the implementation of Article 1Bpk.33.832/2016/2. In his order No.3 Sallai R. Benedek LMP Member of Parliament has requested the suspension of his immunity in a private charge. I gave this to the immunity committee to examine it. The Committee noted that the subject of the private accusation was the subject of non-compliance by its representatives and therefore did not submit a proposal for a decision on the immunity case. I would like to inform you that the Jászberény District Court is the 13th Bpk. 926/2016/2. Mr János Pócs applied for the suspension of the immunity of Fideszes MP in private proceedings. I gave this to the immunity committee to examine it. The immunity committee is H/14029. Mr János Pócs presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the chairman of the committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal within a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2017-02-20-47	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Jászberény District Court is the 13th Bpk.926/2016. By order No.2 of Parliamentary Member János Pócs, he applied for the suspension of his immunity for the offence of defamation, on the basis of the complaint by Ferenc Pintér. The complainant complained that the Hungarian Democrat's national weekly newspaper was XX. János Pócs made a declaration in the 38th grade of his class which, according to the reporter, was untrue and offensive in view of his personality and his previous public mandate. The immunity committee discussed the matter at its meeting on 15 February 2017. In the absence of any powers, the immunity committee did not deal with the criminal evaluation of the act and did not examine the facts in this respect. [[15.40]] His unbroken practice of upholding immunity in private cases aims to ensure the objective of immunity, the smooth working of Parliament and Members. The motion to suspend immunity has not received a majority during the vote in the immunity committee, so it was proposed that Parliament should not suspend the immunity of János Pócs. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-02-20-48	I will ask Mr János Pócs if he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] It says no. It is therefore up to the decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. In order to suspend the immunity of the Members of Parliament, two thirds of the Members of Parliament present must vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of János Pócs. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The House has suspended the immunity of the Member with 20 votes in favour, 135 against and three abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Jászberény Court is the 13th Bpk.969/2016/2. Mr János Pócs applied for the suspension of the immunity of Fideszes MP in private proceedings. I handed this over to the immunity committee, which is H/14030. A proposal for a decision has been tabled in this case. We will also decide on this without debate, but the chairman of the committee, to whom I give the floor, would also like to speak. Here you go, Congressman Vejkey.
u2017-02-20-49	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Jászberény District Court is the 13th Bpk.969/2016. By order No.2 of Parliamentary Member János Pócs filed a motion to suspend his immunity on the basis of the complaint of Attila Vajda. According to the report, János Pócs, Member of Parliament, on the 30th of September of 2016 Jászkiséren, in the cultural house and in the public area before him, allegedly said that the reporter was a prisoner, and he came to Jászkerér to rob the people gathered to hold the event. [[Noise.]] The immunity committee discussed the matter at its meeting on 15 February 2017. The immunity committee did not receive a majority in its vote on immunity. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] a motion for suspension, and therefore a proposal for a resolution was made to ensure that the parliamentary representative János Pócs did not suspend his immunity in the case in question. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]]
u2017-02-20-50	So, Honourable Parliament, the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity should not be suspended by the Parliament. I ask the House whether it suspends the immunity of Mr János Pócs. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Dear House, The Parliament did not suspend the mandate of Mr János Pócs on this matter either by 21 votes in favour, 133 against, with three abstentions. Now, ladies and gentlemen, at 3:44 p.m., we will move on to the discussion of interpellations and immediate questions. I would like to inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is the Rules of Procedure 121. Paragraph 4 (a), point 124. Mr Zsolt Egyed K/13470. He refused to take a written question because the motion was not part of the mandate of the Government. Dear Parliament, István Hiller, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:. The dark day of the protection of Hungarian monuments: 12 January. Here you go.
u2017-02-20-51	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear Minister, January 12, 2017 is a dark day in the history of the protection of Hungarian monuments. On this night, some 1,500 documents were damaged by a pipe break, largely irreversible. All this happened in the Castle of Buda, in the basement of the Forster Gyula National Heritage and Property Management Centre, in the building under number 1 Táncsics Mihály utca. This is the building from which the main state organization of heritage protection was expelled, I think, prematurely, and it was the government's decision to move to this patina building by the Ministry of National Economy, but it hasn't moved so far. Thus, the situation arose that the former Forster Centre's staff were transferred to the building of a former military clothing warehouse, but not a small part of the documentation of the Hungarian monument protection remained in the Castle. Experts away, document stays. Because of the plumbing and the cold, he refused to wait for the Ministry to move up to the Castle. So the documents mentioned, the important parts of the Hungarian cultural heritage, plans and photographs were so drenched that there was little left of them. Dear Minister, The protection of Hungarian monuments is excellent according to the guidelines of Rómer Flóris, Ipolyi Arnold and Imre Henszlmann. He has done exemplary and high quality work since the last third of the century. In the terrible times when cannons crashed or bombs crashed, many of the unparalleled documents of the Hungarian national heritage were destroyed. But in peacetime, such destruction has not occurred since man's memory. The protection of Hungarian monuments did not suffer such damage in peacetime. I suggest we do not seek the cause of this destruction in the cold of winter. A number of experts dealing with the protection of monuments and heritage have come to me, to us, that here, in front of Parliament and the public of the country, we should, preferably on the first parliamentary day, address this issue and try to find an answer to what has happened, so I ask the honourable Minister what has happened. I ask what they have done to prevent the destruction of documents that are important for the protection of Hungarian monuments. I ask how it can happen that, for the first time since 1867, 1500 Hungarian documents have been soaked in a basement in peacetime. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Overall, what was the damage to the Hungarian cultural heritage in relation to their government's plans to move to Castle? I look forward to your reply.
u2017-02-20-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go.
u2017-02-20-53	Thank you very much. Honourable Parliament! Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, Even as former Minister of Culture, I would like to inform you of the following, taking your question seriously and, as a minister who was also concerned about the events on 13 January. There are two parts of its question, and there are two parts of the interest of the profession: the fate of heritage conservation after the transformation of the background institutions, and the specific damage event. From January 12th to January 13th, the hot water pipe was indeed broken, and under number 1 Táncsics utca in a basement where over 16,000 documents were stored ten years ago, 1500 documents were damaged. Of the 1500 documents, 90 percent are expected to be saved with the involvement of restorers, and there are 200 documents that have been permanently destroyed. The date of origin of the 200 documents is 1974-2015. My colleagues are now doing their best to try to recover this documentation from other collections or digital archives, linked to construction projects between 1974 and 2015. The damage is indeed significant. I do not dispute this at all, it may nuance our responsibility that the problem has been perceived, that for ten years the documents have been in bad conditions, and that we have begun to relocate the Forster Center to Daróczi utca 1-3, where, as a result of a HUF 1.6 billion investment, a heritage centre is created, where the documents can be handled properly, which, of course, provides fire protection, water protection and the preservation of the documents. That's one of my answers, so we're trying to mitigate the damage. We also started building and transforming a new building recently, with the participation of the Forster Center, the employees of the former collection center. [[15.50]] On the other hand, I would like to reassure the former Minister that the issue of cultural heritage protection, by integrating the Forster Centre into the Prime Minister's Office, is not weakening but strengthening. I think that by becoming a ministerial institution in the protection of cultural heritage, and becoming the Ministry's Secretary of State and Deputy State Secretary, the two former departments came in one on their staff and became ministerial officials from the staff of the background institution, this is not a sign of weakness, but a sign of strengthening. I would like to ask for your support and all your support for the profession. By offering cooperation, the government is ready to increase the number of people working in heritage conservation, and we are also ready to improve professional conditions. I believe that it is better that in a ministerial structure, a secretary of state, a deputy secretary of state and a clear government responsibility for the protection of the heritage, where the collection department and the department supervising the monuments try to do their work with the same staff and with the same care as they have done in recent centuries, and in recent decades, as Minister said. Once again, I would like to say that I am convinced that this was caused by damage outside the scope of our staff's activities, and I do not think it has anything to do with moving. It is related to the fact that the construction of the building on Daróczi Road was delayed and could not be completed within the deadline. I, of course, take responsibility for this myself. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-20-54	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, Mr. Vice-President, if you will accept the ministerial answer. You have the floor.
u2017-02-20-55	Dear Minister, His reply is correct, but Hungarian MPs do not accept a reply that is correct in its content, but admits that 200 documents of Hungarian heritage protection have been destroyed. No opposition, no pro-government. These documents, even if they can be replaced in some way, have been destroyed. It wasn't on you, it wasn't on the government, it wasn't on the local people, it wasn't on the local people, it was on the 1974 or 1914 document that was soaked. Two hundred of them. It didn't happen in peacetime. Therefore, I do not accept the answer. His comment on the governance structure, like that of every prime minister's own decision-making competence, governs in a structure that I think is not good. I don't accept that either. Thus, the answer is not all, while I consider what you have to say to be correct. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-20-56	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Minister's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 106 votes in favour, 39 against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. The Hungarian households would be rid of the gratuity money forever. It's an address. Mr László György Lukács has the floor.
u2017-02-20-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, One of the most repulsive elements of today's Hungarian health is the daily corruption of health care, the gratuity money. Thanks money is so much a feature of our health system today that if we ask anyone in Hungary what is one of the hallmarks of Hungarian health care, they will say that it is gratuity money that distinguishes it from other health care in Europe. So it is certain that gratitude money has nothing to do with gratitude, gratitude for the tests and healing done, but rather with the wages of fear. The current legislation therefore regrets that gratitude money is legal in the event that it is given ex post and that the head of the institution gives the opportunity to do so. With this regulation, of course, the government not only legalizes the gratuity money, but also opens the way for illegal gratuity money, the application of tariffs, by means of loopholes. In view of the fact that gratitude money is an important issue of modern health care, Jobbik launched the real national consultation at the beginning of 2016 and asked the majority of households about their views on gratuity money because they were curious about the voice of the people and what the people thought of gratuity money. People have made it clear that 90 percent of respondents have made it clear that gratuity is to be eliminated, and 90 percent of respondents have clearly indicated that the government is going in the wrong direction regarding the assessment of gratuity money. Jobbik has also asked their opinion because it is happening that everyday corruption in health care would be released not only by patients but also by workers, but by the government, you are not taking any meaningful steps to eradicate it. The results of the real national consultation clearly indicate that the overwhelming majority of people reject and make it criminal and want to change. The Jobbik, if they give the electorate the authority, will take the people's side. We will eliminate the gratuity money: in a short time Hungary will be forbidden to give gratuity money and accept gratuity money. The three steps that will be taken to achieve this will be achieved in a short period of time, which will mean catching up on wages, improving working conditions and eliminating the debt of the institutions. Jobbik sees Hungary's future in the fact that people do not have to spend any more of their gratitude money. The Jobbik, unlike the government, believes that the future of Hungary, health, should be decided not by the landlords, not by the governors, not by the doctors and not by their vassals, but by the people. We don't need them, the gratuity money, the fief estates in health care. In view of all this, I ask the Secretary of State: why is the government not doing anything to ensure that the gratuity money can be stopped immediately? What do you intend to do in order to eliminate cases where doctors who operate fief estates go to work without having an employment relationship, simply for the acceptance of gratuity money? I would be honored to thank you in advance for your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-20-58	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, who will answer on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-02-20-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I am surprised, Congressman, that as a member of the Jobbik faction, you are well informed about the content of a spontaneous consultation questionnaire launched by an Ozd civil society organisation, which is completely independent of Jobbik. I can't believe that this NGO, which is party-independent, had a good idea of what Jobbik needed, but it shouldn't have been necessary for Lajos Simicska's circles for millions, tens of millions or hundreds of millions of dollars, that the cost of such a consultation, which is completely independent of Jobbik, can be implemented by this NGO, because it is quite clear that everyone in Hungary rejects the Thanks money. Honourable Member, everyone would like this to go out, but there are only political forces who are making sure that this system of gratuity is abolished in Hungary, and there are those who do not; of course, there are also those who want to operate and maintain this system. The root of this gratuity money system dates back to the middle of the communist period, when all graduates, all intellectuals, were considered enemies by the then system. He also adjusted the wages of doctors to the wages of skilled workers at that time in order to combat such a reactionary group, the medical group of intellectuals. At the same time, people knew that what doctors were doing and that they could save their health and their lives was a much more valuable job, which is why, unfortunately, the system of gratuity money was created, and that the whole country has been rolling around in Hungary since the 1950s. That this must be achieved, that it must be eliminated, that it must be eliminated, that this is humiliating, unfair and unfair for everyone, that all Hungarian people agree, as I said, that the NGO should not have informed Jobbik so well. 60 percent of Hungarians also believe that one of the solutions to this could be to raise the wages of health workers they consider underpaid. Therefore, the government also took this path and started raising the wages of health care workers, doctors, nurses and 95 thousand people overall in 2012-13. The first source that was created was chips tax revenue, public health product tax, we were able to turn billions and tens of billions of people from the special tax collected on unhealthy foods back to health every year, up to HUF 70 billion a year to raise the wages of health care workers by 27 percent. That was the first beat. In 2014, it continued by raising the rate of mobile wage elements, i.e. on-call overtime allowances, by 27 percent, as we raised the basic wage, and last year, when, as the economy grew, Hungary increased, it opened up to another wave of wage increases, then the government continued to raise wages in health care after teachers. You know, and you know it, honourable Member, the data on how the wages of doctors and nurses have increased in the last year. As of September 1st last year, doctors increased their wages by HUF 107,000, next year by another HUF 100,000; the wages for nurses increased by 26,5 percent on 1st September last year, and this year continues by 12 percent and then by 8-8 percent. In four years their wages will increase by 65 percent, which in total means a 100 percent increase in wages and a doubling in wages between 2012-19. [[16.00]] I would also like to draw your attention to the residency support programme for which the government spent HUF 4.5 billion, and for this 100, 150 or 200 thousand HUF scholarship, young people also agreed not to accept gratuity money. Now that means 3,500 young doctors. Of course, Jobbik had proposals for a different solution - I would quote the solution - and here in Parliament it did not support any proposal, nor did it support any wage increase. And you, honourable Member, have shown doctors the way to go to Ireland, go abroad, your family company will benefit from this posting, you have taken dozens of doctors or nurses to Ireland, and you have taken them from here, from the Hungarian patients. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Health is not a business, honourable Member, for Jobbik or for you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-20-60	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Mr László György Lukács is responsible for accepting the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2017-02-20-61	I'm sure it won't surprise me that I can't accept it, I can't accept your answer. However, it is surprising that there is a hospital in Hungary today called Szigetvári Hospital, and this is Szigetvári Hospital who thought it would work without any gratuity money, but it has a department, obstetric gynecology, where the workers specifically asked that they collect gratuity money and let them work with gratuity money. Well, if we look at the names on this list, we'll find a name on this list, a doctor named Rétvári. [[György Szilágyi: Oops!]] As an obstetrician and gynecologist, he thought it was necessary to take advantage of mothers and future mothers waiting for birth. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That didn't work for News TV! Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] It's not that, Mr. Secretary, you may not be able to cancel the gratuity money because of your acquaintance, is it? It's not that you're interested in, or perhaps you're not interested in getting the gratuity money out of Hungary, is it, Mr. Secretary? Mr. Secretary, if it's proven, and you might have something to do with it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That didn't work for News TV!]] And now you can tell me and press your button, feel free to tell me if you have anything to do with that Retiree who she is, who she is to you, someone you know. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] if you are a member of the family [[The President shall re-notify the expiry of the time.]] and if you have any personal influence on the fact that you don't have the guts to put it any harder in order to eliminate the gratuity money. [[Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties, including: Time! Time's up!]] Secretary of State... [[The president's gonna turn off the speaker's mic. Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-20-62	Congressman, I take the floor. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 35 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári asked for the floor on a point of order. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that I am able to speak on the basis of the house rules immediately after the interpellation. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy and Bernadett Szél, representatives of LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade. Congressman Bernadett Wind, Head of the Group, shall take the floor. Here you go.
u2017-02-20-63	[[Without sound:]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-02-20-64	I'm gonna need your microphone adjusted somehow.
u2017-02-20-65	It works for me.
u2017-02-20-66	Yeah, it's okay, it is now.
u2017-02-20-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Minister - who I do not see here in the competent zöllyek, and I am very sorry for that, because I would have addressed this interpellation personally to Minister Péter Szijjártó, because he is the minister who fled from taking responsibility and did not press charges when, by the way, he had a legal obligation to do so when he became aware of a crime. Now I see you sent your Secretary of State to fight for you. There are very brave ministers in the Fidesz-KDNP, if that's all they can afford to do when there's a situation, then they're going somewhere to get the Secretary of State to stand up for them. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where are your fellow factions? Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Of course, there have never been so many State Secretarys in the Hungarian Parliament as they are now. [[Noise in the ranks of the governing parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] But the question is, is that really what the secretary of state is for, that when the minister is to be held accountable, he should retire. I do not want to continue the fight here with the Minister and the Chairman of the Group, but the point is that this is not the time to hide from opposition representatives. This is what we're talking about: this is a brutal case in recent years, the central figure of which is a Szilárd Kiss, whose name now says a lot to many of us, and the May Other Politics was the one who decided to get to the bottom of this story. It wasn't easy. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, who is now hiding from being held accountable, has conducted an internal investigation into Szilárd Kiss's affairs, and then he took this and tried to sink it; that is what this story is about. On 5 December 2013, the internal report, which described the case at the Hungarian Consulate in Moscow, in black and white, from thorn to hill, which practically pointed out that with mafia methods and threats from the people working there working at the consulate, Szilárd Kiss intervened in order to obtain Schengen visas for various underworld figures in Russia. I had to go to the Mansion, I worked a year and a half to get this internal report from the Ministry, because Minister Szijjártó tried so hard to hide it, that I finally had to go to the highest level. I would like to make it clear now that whatever Szilárd Németh and all the other ministers, Mr Lazarus and anyone else, this is a national security risk that Fidesz-KDNP has unleashed on Hungary, which does not stop at the borders of the country, but is virtually going all over the European Union, anywhere. Within the Schengen area, practically a full risky state has been created. By the way, Péter Szijjártó was involved twice, because when this happened, he was the State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs. You don't really think that he didn't know what was going on at the consulate then, and he was also the Minister for Hungarian-Russian economic relations. But here is the point: if a minister in the Hungarian government finds out that there is a crime going on at the Hungarian consulate in Moscow, what is he doing? He simply shook off this story by telling himself that he had given this internal report to the police. Why didn't the Minister press charges? Mr. Secretary, tell me instead of your boss why you didn't press charges. Tell me why you're hiding this man, why you're hiding Szilárd Kiss.
u2017-02-20-68	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Magyar Levente. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-02-20-69	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Congresswoman, I am trying to give a full answer to this flood of information and accusations that have been said in the last few minutes. First of all, as regards Minister of Foreign Affairs, I would like to say that he has only been through Tokyo, Sydney, Canberra, Wellington and Auckland in five days, in the last week alone. I'd like to see who's in the LMP faction in such a mental and physical state that you can do that after you left for New York this morning. [[Noise.]] I think, honourable Member, that, before you accuse the Minister of Foreign Affairs of being absent from Parliament because of his duties and not because of his official duties, and perhaps to ask for his agenda, this can obviously be given with pleasure. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to add a few facts so that the LMP can take the step that most of the opposition press have already taken, and which means they understand that Szilárd Kiss and Péter Szijjártó have nothing to do with each other in the world. I hope that these facts, which are being recorded here, can also help the LMP on the way to this recognition, because it is never too late, dear congresswoman. Péter Szijjártó has never worked with Szilárd Kiss in any organization, first of all I would like to record this fact in order to avoid any further assumptions. In the case of abuses at the Moscow consulate, the then Minister for Foreign Affairs and the then Minister of Public Administration ordered an investigation in 2013 and closed the case after taking immediate restrictive and restrictive measures on the basis of the outcome established by the investigation. So it's 2013. Péter Szijjártó became Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade in the second half of 2014 and had no formal institutional relations with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the time, he was not employed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Once again, in 2013, the then Administrative Secretary closed the dossier, and next to the hundreds of thousands of other files and archives, he was included in the vast inventory that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been conducting for decades on its official affairs. So in no way, when Péter Szijjártó became Minister at the end of 2014, he did not meet on his own initiative, because he could not have met, because, honourable Member, this dossier would be unviable to assume that he would end up on the Secretary of State's desk after being appointed Minister, either on his own account or out of the other files. It is unviable and pointless to assume that the Minister will read all documents containing the Ministry's case, the Ministry's previous documents, after being appointed. [[16.10]] However, when the police contacted the wallet in 2015, this report was delivered as it is. So long before you were allegedly sued by the Curia, honourable Member, this report was properly forwarded by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the competent investigating authority. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and This is not a political issue, but a legal issue and an administrative issue in its entirety. We do not understand the assumption why this matter should have been dealt with ex officio before it was drawn up in any way in the context of the procedure of the official bodies as a task as a request to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Péter Szijjártó has exactly as much to do with Szilárd Kiss and the whole case as you, dear congresswoman. Please - for many times, let us say this - slowly acknowledge this truth. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-20-70	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. [[Interview from Fidesz: Yes.]] You have the floor.
u2017-02-20-71	Well, Fidesz's new style is something. You've had homophobic remarks before, and now you're just being stupid. [[Noise, uproar, interrogations from the ruling parties.]] Secretary of State, I don't know what kind of diplomats you are at the State Department. We should convince each other not with each other's mental abilities, but with political arguments. This way, I can see you can't. Take a look at:, members of the authority and that official person, and, if required by a separate law, the public body is obliged to report a criminal offence that has come to its attention. The complaint must be accompanied by a.........pam, pam, pam. Dear Secretary of State, The thing is, Peter Szijjártó didn't do this. From here on out, I'd appreciate it if Minister would stop traveling. [[Noise, uproar, interrogation in the ranks of the governing parties.]] and give an account to the Hungarian Parliament of why it failed to fulfil its obligation to remove a criminal from the system. This criminal is now driving a Russian diplomatic car. And what's unviable, by the way? I'm sorry, he was a commissioner for Russian-Hungarian economic relations. What did the Minister know about Russian or economic relations if he didn't know that Szilárd Kiss was convicted legally in Russia, and that a man with such a criminal record among your ministries would continue to be...?
u2017-02-20-72	Madam Congresswoman, I look forward to your reply with respect.
u2017-02-20-73	Thank you.
u2017-02-20-74	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer if I felt good. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply 106 yes, 34 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, László Kucsák, a representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the National Development Minister:. How many tunnels did the metro money disappear in? The subway and what's behind it. It's an address. Mr László Kucsák has the floor.
u2017-02-20-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I think we all agree that everything that has recently been made public about the conditions under which metro line 4 was built, thanks to the OLAF report, is rarely facial toaster. The European Union Anti-Fraud Office, which investigates the spending of EU funds and irregularities, claims nothing less than that, I quote, serious governance irregularities and errors have affected the whole project. Some of these cases are very serious, such as conflict of interest, non-discrimination and breach of the requirement of equal treatment for tenderers, and some of them can be regarded as fraud. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The study was very thorough, since it lasted four years and examined 400 billion forints of contracts. In OLAF's opinion, the amount affected by irregularities is HUF 272 billion, of which HUF 167 billion may be suspected of criminal activity, fraud, abuse and irregularity. Of the HUF 167 billion, HUF 59 billion was provided by the European Union; 77.7 billion was provided by the Hungarian state with Hungarian taxpayers' money, and the Municipality of Budapest contributed HUF 30 billion to the implementation. For us, one of the most shocking details of the case is that, according to press reports, it was an open secret at the time of the left-wing city leadership that a socialist party in the town hall demanded 40 percent bribe money from a consortium involved in the investment in the period 2008-2009. If there really was such a degree of corruption, why are we surprised that the total cost of the subway investment was about four times higher than the originally planned one? Dear House, What is the consequence of all this? The capital is now in the impossible position of having 60 days to reach its position on the report, and if it does not dispute the report and the irregularities it contains, the capital must reimburse HUF 59 billion to the European Union. The government has already ordered the necessary investigations, and we hope that as a result, we will be able to answer the questions that have not yet been clarified. It is perhaps important to clarify at this point that the current leadership in the capital is not responsible for the findings contained in the report, since the opposition at the time, led by István Tarlós, did everything possible to ensure that this investment was transparent, transparent and that the capital would not suffer. Dear Secretary of State, Of course, we can't say anything for sure before the tests prove to be credible what exactly happened. But public opinion has the right to know the truth. That's why I'm asking, how many tunnels did the subway money disappear in? What did the government face with regard to the Metro 4 project after the 2010 government change, and why is it that, although there was little hope for it, the subway was built? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] What the government sees as an opportunity for the OLAF report [[The president's ringing again.]] [[The president's ringing again.]] the EU's reclaimable HUF 59 billion will be minimized, not forgetting criminal law (The President is ringing again). And compensation aspects? Thank you for your patience. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-20-76	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary János Fónagy wishes to respond to the interpellation. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-02-20-77	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In recent years, many people have asked whether metro 4 was necessary in Budapest. This investment has often been criticised for the fact that it contains extremely expensive architectural solutions. It was mentioned that there are two stops between which the distance is only 378 meters. The reason why they started work in 2007 was based on a 10-year feasibility study. From the subway you referred to in your interpellation, however, there are tougher and more numerical questions. The OLAF report shows that it is not only fraud in EU funds, but also in direct payments from the Hungarian state register. Based on the documents published, it is clear that the responsibility lies with the Medgyessy, Gyurcsány, Bajnai governments and the Demszky Gábor MSZP-SZDSZ capital leadership. In the last week, all of you would have had the opportunity to clarify your role and person before the Parliament's Economic Committee, but unfortunately you have not taken advantage of this opportunity. The actions detailed in the OLAF report which give rise to reasonable suspicion of a crime are currently being investigated by the investigating authority. According to the available data, he raised in his interpellation the question of where responsibility could be delimited for the 2010 change. The report mentions an opportunity after 2010. Based on the experience of documents examined after 2010, the government and the mayor of Budapest faced the fact that they would either stop the semi-finished investment, thereby accepting that the contractors who carried out the construction would make claims for damages that did not know the limits of their contracts, or that they would try to minimise them by treaty modifications. The capital and government chose this route and managed to achieve significant savings: the projected total investment cost of more than 450 billion at the time was reduced to close to HUF 400 billion. In addition to cases of suspicion of a higher amount of crime, the findings contained in the OLAF report concern a large number of public procurement infringements which the government may dispute against the European Commission, and I believe that it should also dispute on a case-by-case basis. If it is found that a crime has actually been committed in a case, then the damage to the budget of Hungary and the capital must be sustained by the persons and companies causing it. We hope that this will be cleared up as soon as possible, and that will be done if necessary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. István Józsa applauds.]] [[16.20]]
u2017-02-20-78	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-02-20-79	Thank you for the floor. Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I believe that it is essential that the truth be revealed and that we really give tangible evidence of where the metro money went, even because I didn't mention it, but now I mention - you mentioned - that the former governments are probably also heavily responsible, so the Medgyessy, Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments. In fact, the report also points out that during the time of left-wing governments, party funding could be prohibited according to the document, so that money could be put into the party register of the MSZP and could lead to the party banker of the MSZP. It is of the utmost importance that this issue be clarified, as the biggest corruption scandal in the history of Hungary after the change of regime has emerged on the basis of this report. Dear Secretary of State, In the hope of obtaining as many arguments and tangible evidence as possible, I respectfully accept your answer in this regard. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-20-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy. It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister for the Interior, who is competent and competent on the subject, responds to the interpellation by Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Mr Nándor Gúr has the floor.
u2017-02-20-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, In November 2016, after six and a half years, thank God, we can say that we have finally managed to make a minimum wage and a guaranteed minimum wage increase for the benefit of some of the people. The government has announced all this, and that's pretty much fine. The aspirations of the trade unions, but also the aspirations of the political parties, were partly realised, true, late, and not as much as it would have been necessary, as the events of the last six or seven years have confirmed this: how many have left the country, and how for five to six years the people with minimum wage have received less money. In the police community, where remuneration is essentially made up of two parts, on the one hand, of the so-called salary at board level and, on the other hand, of the employer's decision, on the other hand, this has brought about virtually a change in the news over the past period, according to information that as much as the employer's salary, based on the employer's decision, has been reduced, the level of pay on the other side has been increased by so much. In English: they made a wage development that took part of what they had, and then they gave it under another heading, and this is wage development. This is basically the way in which the increase to the guaranteed minimum wage level is respected. In English: they took away benefits that they had given to people earlier, and they built these benefits that they had given earlier in order to achieve the guaranteed minimum wage. Why are employers and employers forced into such practices? Possibly or because the government does not finance or imagine its commitments to a net wage increase, which has been approved by the government for the seventh year, or which I cannot imagine otherwise, because the employer has no intention of mutilating his employees in a material sense. What I want to say is that if and if this is so - and thousands of people have, to my knowledge, moved towards redress in this regard - then the government should be able to stand up financially, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to identify who is responsible for the fact that this has happened or could have happened, and, on the third, forget the practical steps, the practical steps of government that have been taken to maim people in a material sense. At least try to make your own decisions, do what needs to be done for the sake of the people, not only in words, but also in works. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-02-20-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-02-20-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to strongly reject the statement made in the interpellation title, namely, that they are already tricking the law enforcement agencies into raising wages. They don't trick law enforcement with wage increases. The Ministry of Interior and the bodies it manages shall act in accordance with the law. Even after an increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, civil servants shall be entitled under the law as guaranteed salaries at least equal to the minimum wage or the minimum wage guaranteed. The salary of all employees of the Ministry of Interior or of the Managed Bodies has been established or recorded accordingly with effect from 1 January 2017. The first phase of the salary increase of civil servants assisting law enforcement agencies took place on 1 July 2015. This wage increase was 5%. As a second step in the wage increase, civil servants received a further 5 percent increase from 1 January 2016 in total. Thus, civil servants of law enforcement agencies controlled by the Ministry of Interior received a total salary increase of 10 per cent. In addition to the basic salary, employees shall continue to be entitled to this as a special allowance. I would like to mention the salary increase for the professional staff of law enforcement agencies, which entered into force on 1 July 2015 after the entry into force of the new Law of Service, which increases the salary of nearly 60 thousand law enforcement professionals on an average of 50 per cent until 1 July 2019. On 1 July 2015, the average salary increase of 30 per cent was reported at the first stage and included an additional average salary increase of 5 per cent on 1 January 2016 and 1 January 2017. At present, we are looking at an average salary increase of 40 per cent, which will result in an additional increase of 5 to 5 per cent on 1 January 2018 and 1 January 2019, which will allow an average increase of 50 per cent on 1 January 2019 for law enforcement professional staff. Again, that's nearly 60,000 people. In addition, we have implemented the creation of two other elements of the career model. We've established the housing support system. As a source of this, 2 billion HUF 815 million is available in 2017 to improve the housing conditions of professional domestic personnel, and from 1 January 2017 we introduced a health-damage care system to effectively manage health incapacity for professional service due to exceptional events, life situations, accidents or illnesses in the professional career of law enforcement. This is proof, honourable Member, that we are fulfilling our promise and we are running all three models of the law enforcement career. I would like to draw attention to the fact that between 2002 and 2010, we did not have much time to meet with the Member's speech, which would have mentioned the need to increase the salary of professional staff between 2002 and 2010, and we did not even meet with the fact that the statutory supplement, such as the shift allowance for firefighters, which would have been due from 1 May 2004 to 31 December 2007, would have proposed this HUF 7.2 billion to the 6500 firefighter for payment. Honourable Congressman, Please accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-20-84	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-02-20-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, obviously, that answer can't be accepted, because part of it is nonsense, and the other part is based on untrue things. Look, you've come up with a lot of career model promises, and in many ways, nothing has been done. Otherwise, you have to give people money, money, salary, and the salary they promise to give to them so that they can go into the store and buy. For five to six years, you can say with a calm conscience, they stole people with the lowest income, because they raised the gross of the minimum wage to the skies, and their purchasing power was less than in the previous years. [[16.30]] It's no coincidence that 600,000 people have left this country, driven these people out of this country. It is very difficult to bring these people back to be producers at home. Now, a word, like a hundred, doesn't have to put lollipops in people's mouths in the year before the election. They need to be paid, something that has more customer value than in the previous period. Secretary of State, hold on a second, step forward with this. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-02-20-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 103 votes in favour, 28 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: It's an address. Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs has the floor.
u2017-02-20-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I don't know who the Secretary of State is going to answer because I submitted the question to the Prime Minister's Office.
u2017-02-20-88	State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés wishes to reply.
u2017-02-20-89	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, The agreement was reached at the end of 2016, resulting in a minimum wage of 127 thousand forints, while the guaranteed minimum wage was 161 thousand forints. This certainly has a positive impact on, among other things, civil servants working in local government offices as well as civil servants working in their budgetary institutions. At the same time, it is known that, as an administrator, it has taken 33 years to earn more than the guaranteed minimum wage. Now that's 37 years. Thus, women workers work practically all their lives, for 40 years, for a minimum allowance, to receive a minimum pension. I believe that this is a reflection of the deplorable state of the domestic administration. Last November's agreement slightly alleviates the poverty of civil servants and civil servants, while statutory wage increases place a considerable burden on individual municipalities. Only because, at the same time as the generous gesture of the government, he forgot to increase the operating aid in Annex 2 to the Finance Act to an appropriate scale or to initiate an amendment of the law to that effect. The norms, which have been unchanged for years, have now little to cover real costs. Dear Secretary of State, The wages of civil servants and civil servants remain humiliatingly low despite any increase. Jobbik has initiated throughout the country that municipalities which can do this without a local tax increase should raise the basic salary of civil servants in their own hands. But we believe that public service workers' wages should be raised significantly and at the level of the Budget Act as soon as possible by ensuring that they are stable. At the same time, assistance should also be provided to local authorities that employ them. Therefore, I ask when the public service workers' wages will be finally increased and how the State will compensate for the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage in municipal task financing. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State not to mention the HUF 7.5 billion provided by Government Resolution 1058 in his reply, because it covers a maximum of one fifth of the actual expenditure increase. Thank you and I look forward to your meaningful reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-20-90	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, I would like to inform the congresswoman that on 13 February the interpellation was submitted to the NGM, for the sake of accuracy only. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-02-20-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I promise I won't mention the 7.5 billion forints. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] As a result of the six-year wage agreement concluded last November, perhaps we can say that there is a historic wage development in Hungary. As a result, not only the financial appreciation of Hungarian citizens is increasing, but domestic competitiveness can also be given a new impetus. Of course, wage measures affect both the private and public sectors, so the government did not aim to exclude certain areas. It is also known before our wallets that wage measures have a significant impact on the operation of municipalities. The calculations in this respect are based on actual salary data, where, of course, all relevant aspects need to be taken into account and taken into account. First of all, it should be emphasised that the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, in order to alleviate the burden on employers, is accompanied by a 5 percentage point reduction in the social contribution tax. There is therefore also a significant amount of savings, both in the employers of the competition sphere and in the municipalities. Thus, municipalities are subject to both areas, both the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, and the tax reduction. Of course, the government pays particular attention to ensuring that the conditions for the measures taken are met by all public sector actors, including municipalities. In the case of municipalities, in the light of the salary accounting data, the need for an additional resource may be determined in accordance with the principles indicated above. In general, it can be said that the central budget can provide assistance where the additional expenditure resulting from the wage increase exceeds the savings resulting from the reduction of the social contribution tax and the economic situation of the municipality does not allow the difference to be managed in full or in part. There is no equality between the municipality and the municipality. The government always makes decisions on careers, wage increases, salary increases with the budget in mind. This is shown by the fact that the career of law enforcement and defence workers, teachers, state officials, NAV employees, health, social, judicial, higher education wage increases and cultural wage developments will continue to take place in 2017. I do not want to mention it, because they have heard and read about the areas in which wage increases have been made many times. The salaries of teachers, health workers, law enforcement workers and state officials could be mentioned. Finally, I would like to inform you that the government is in constant consultation with the various stakeholder forums, including the National Civil Service Stakeholder Council, so that the participants can have all the necessary and relevant information. Once again, I would like to emphasise that the experience, the figures and the facts will have to be examined as to whether there is a need to complement budgetary resources in municipalities due to wage increases. In the event that the information is available, it will be possible to make a meaningful decision. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-20-92	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-02-20-93	There's no way I can accept it, Mr. Secretary. And let me help you out, because if in two and a half months the NGM has not been able to calculate the very obvious fact that every municipality knows, and it has obviously been sent to you and to the MÁK, this means a withdrawal of some 40 billion from the municipalities. You spoke about decisions on a historical scale regarding the Orbán government, it is indeed a historical withdrawal from the local government sphere and a historical burden. Obviously, you are not aware of some of the decisions of your own government, because, yes, the government decision I mentioned would affect this sphere, and this is precisely the problem, but unfortunately it has not been possible to remedy it. And I have no answer to my question as to when the government intends to raise the basic salary for civil servants. We know that in 2008, the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government concluded with the IMF a contract that froze this. As your loyal servant to the Gyurcsány government, they will continue to implement it.
u2017-02-20-94	I'm waiting for your answer, Congresswoman.
u2017-02-20-95	Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-20-96	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 29 against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Péter Harrach and Imre Vejkey, representatives of KDNP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, What changes will this year bring in the lives of families? It's an address. Congressman Imre Vejkey has the floor. [[16.40]]
u2017-02-20-97	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, At the beginning of the spring parliamentary period, we will take stock of our achievements by the end of the previous year and our plans for the next period here in Parliament. I would therefore like to ask, if not on the most important subject, the Secretary of State to inform this House, namely the results of the family support system, this year's changes and the plans for the near future. Over the past year, the government has developed the family support system with countless measures. This, of course, meets the most important objectives of the Christian Democrats, according to which the family as a nation reserve unit should be supported from the point when two young people connect their lives through childbearing and child rearing to multigenerational large families. As far as the country's financial power is concerned, we need to provide as much support as possible for families, as the survival of families, the promotion of childbearing, the reversal of demographic trends are a national issue. Every HUF invested today is refunded a thousand times in this area. Through tax incentives and other subsidies specifically for family life, the government leaves more and more money to families each year. All we need to think about is that we are spending nearly twice the OECD average, 4.7 percent of GDP on support for families, with a significant reduction in overhead expenditure and a steady increase in real wages, with extremely low inflation. Dear Secretary of State, We've achieved more of our goals. We have launched significant family support processes, but we still have a lot of work ahead of us. That is why, with all due respect, I ask Mr State Secretary, what changes this year's start has brought or will bring about in the lives of families, how much extra support they have at their disposal. What additional measures does the government plan to support families and improve their living conditions? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-20-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-02-20-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government's priority is to strengthen families, and it is important that Hungary's strengthening is felt in the everyday lives of families. I think it was clear that from the first moment, when this government started working, it considered families to be the most important national resources, and when, in any year, it submitted a budget law or there were legislative changes, this government placed families in a more favourable position every year than they were in the previous year. There has not been a year in which the system of family support has not been expanded. This is the case again this year, also in 2017, as we give the family HUF 1741 billion in total in the budget, which is HUF 155 billion, 10 percent more than they received in 2016, last year. The amount of financial support also increased by HUF 32 billion. If we look at the total number of families left since 2010, we can say that it is 1350 billion forints that remained with the families between 2010 and 17 that would be poorer, i.e. 1.1 million families in Hungary if Fidesz-KDNP did not form a government in 2010. The amount spent on family support is therefore 42.7 percent more today than it was in 2010 at the time of the change of government. I think many people know that a new expansion has come into force in connection with the discounts, tax and contribution reductions for two children, as we will double this in four years until 2019, and it will be HUF 40,000. We are now at HUF 30,000 after the first two raises, and we have two more raises ahead of us. What is new in 2017 is that the tax relief of newlyweds for two years now can be used in parallel with the family discount. So if someone is born early, within a year of the previous years, now within two years of the marriage, they will not cease to pay the state's wedding gift, the tax benefits of newlyweds, they will also receive it continuously, from month to month, and they will also benefit from the tax allowance for the child after the child's 3 months of age. It is also an important change from this year to the creation of new kindergarten types, a mini nursery, a family nursery and a nursery at work, which can take care of the day-to-day children to places, settlements and parts of settlements where they could not do so in addition to strict rules, but the flexible rule is already adapted to the needs of families. That is why we are confident that this will help many people, especially in small towns, who want to work as soon as possible in addition to having children, before the child is 3 years old. It is now possible not only after six months to use family support at the same time as working and taking up wages, but also to expand the system of child care. It is important that young children with a higher education have increased their salary by 1.5 times from 2016 and that from 1 January this year 6600 children's wages in crèches with secondary education will increase by 12 percent, with a cover of one and a half billion in the budget. CSOK is one of the most important innovations, 111,000 families were interested, 26 thousand family applications have already been accepted, and 76 billion HUF has been supported. It is important to remember the tax refund aid for the construction of a family house, which can amount to HUF 5 million. With this, 5,000 families lived in the value of HUF 2 billion. The loan of HUF 10 million, with a discount rate of HUF 4,000, was taken up in the value of HUF 33 billion, but it is two thousand people per month who receive the allowance in the CSOK and are constantly expanding, year by year, month by month, with at least two thousand families per month. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-20-100	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman Imre Vejkey if he will accept the State Secretary's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-02-20-101	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your reply. His reply showed that family support increased by 47.2 percent compared to 2010. It also turned out that the family home creation discount had already been used by 35,000 people, so 2016 was indeed the year of home creation. The Christian Democrats thank you for the government's commitment to continue the programme in order to give tens of thousands of families access to their own new housing property again this year. It was an important measure that fresh families could receive first-married tax relief, as well as an increase in baby care and childcare fees, as well as the introduction of the ged extra, which was already claimed by 70,000 people last year. On that basis, Mr Secretary, I would like to thank you for your reply. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-20-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy and Erzsébet Schmuck, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister: Why does the Government put a municipality in a position to sell the health of the village? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is competent and competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, responds to the interpellation. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-02-20-103	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, While you are building stadiums and dreaming of thousands of billion-dollar Olympics, in a village of 2500 people, the municipality is preparing to sell about 10 thousand square meters of municipal land to the ELMUZ for the construction of a transformer station in the immediate vicinity of the inhabited outskirts. The municipality wants to sell the area to build a gym for the children, because Pilisszántó, as in many Hungarian settlements, there is no gym. The children exercise in the former coal reservoir of the basement of the school in Pilissántó. If the village wants a gym, it has to give up its right to a healthy environment. Do you consider this acceptable and fair? Moreover, the establishment of a transformer station can not only deprive children of a healthy environment, but also create peacelessness in the village. It divides the village to become a gymnasium or transformer station. [[16.50]] I would start building the gym from 65 million forints promised for the land. Mr. Secretary. Why does the government create such a situation that, in order to build the gym, it forces the municipality and the local residents into an unworthy bargain? Do you know that such a transformer station and power lines are harmful to health? Permanent electrosmog can damage our entire body in the long term and have carcinogenic effects, and these are known things, yet you do nothing, and even watch a settlement be forced to accept the transformer station by lack of money, even though you do not need it. The central budget has been included in the gym building programme for years with a budget of 3 billion a year, while you spend many tens of billions a year on stadium construction, some in private pockets. However, in 2016 they regretted even this 3 billion from schools, the children, to have a gymnasium, because at the end of the year, the government transferred 1.2 billion forints from the 3 billion, and took them from the framework. There are 45 billion football fields and stadiums a year, not for Hungarian children. We ask that the government solve the issue of the Pilissántó gym, do not allow the local people's health-threatening transformer station to be the price of the gym. This situation has been caused by your local government's bled-out policy and by unnecessary football and stadium madness that goes far beyond society's capacity. Now take responsibility and secure the source for the construction of the Pilissántó gymnasium. The children and the municipality can count on that, can't they? I would like to know what concrete steps will be taken in this matter. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-20-104	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary János Fónagy responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-02-20-105	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If we ignore the effect with a large voice, let me answer your question, to the point: there is no decision yet on the issue. I would like to argue in part that there is no need for a transformer station. There is a need, because they also use electricity in Pilis, and I think we need electricity in the refrigerators for lighting. At the same time, the ELMű - confirmed by the mayor of Pilisszántó - discusses the location of the transformer, and on the spot the position is that, if necessary, the municipality will issue a local referendum on the need for or location of the transformer station. By the way, we agree perfectly that we need to find a balance in terms of the technical improvements needed for people's daily lives and in terms of nature and the protection of human health. So this is not decided, they are negotiating as they should, and I very much hope that if necessary, by interfering with a local referendum, they will find the right solution. Another issue is that you are arguing about the fact that, for example, in recent years, the government has freed local governments from HUF 1300 billion in debt, calling it bleeding out, I think that even in the dictionary of politics, it is an exaggeration. He talks about gymnasiums. In Hungary there are 3200 settlements, our aim in our program of public education is to have a gym in each of them, but it takes time. We launched this program in 2014, and 25 gymnasiums are built in the first phase of the program, 6 of which have already been completed. In the near future, additional gymnasiums will be handed over, and please let me be the first to share this information with you: there will be a list of 25 more, and in the near future a decision will be made as to where they will be built. Of course, not only gymnasium development, but also educational and classroom development takes place in this circle. All in all, I trust that Pilisszántó and ELME will find a common solution, and Pilisszántó will also get a gymnasium as soon as possible. I ask you to appreciate my answer. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-20-106	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply and ask the Member to accept the State Secretary's reply. You have the floor.
u2017-02-20-107	No, I cannot accept the Secretary of State's reply. Allow me to give some thought to the Secretary of State's point of view. I've met villagers, people who think the village doesn't need a transformer station, and otherwise it's likely that the whole village thinks so, but the village is divided because half the villagers have children who want a gymnasium for children, so basically the need to build a gym shares the village. I think, and we think, that the government can't force local governments to burden the village to vote on this. The big question here is why, in fact, at the end of last year, the government took 1.2 billion forints from the 3 billion that were included in the annual section of the budget for gym building. This wasn't supposed to happen. Of this 1.2 billion, a lot of schools could have built a gymnasium.
u2017-02-20-108	I'm waiting for your answer, Congresswoman.
u2017-02-20-109	Thank you very much, I don't accept it. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-20-110	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 26 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, János Halász, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. What will the effects of tax reductions be in 2017? It's an address. Mr János Halász has the floor.
u2017-02-20-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In 2010, the government set itself important economic policy objectives such as increasing employment, increasing economy, reducing public debt and budget deficits. We can say that there are very few macroeconomic indicators today that do not show a positive picture of the state of the economy and, fortunately, we are now talking about tax cuts. Dear House, I think we all remember when the former socialist governments reduced taxes before an election, hid the recent data of the Statistical Office, and then, after the election victory, explained to people why reduced taxes should be lifted, i.e. lied, fooled everyone. In fact, the socialists were just raising taxes. I also remember how many people predicted the failure of single-key personal income tax in 2010-2011 and that the budget would not be able to bear such a burden. Six years have passed since then, and the budget has not been as positive since the regime change as it is now. It is good to see that the current civilian government is doing everything in its power to reduce the burden on taxpayers in a sustainable way, but constantly. Last year, personal income tax decreased from 16 percent to 15 percent, but the VAT on pig meat also decreased to 5 percent. Tax reductions continued this year, as from January many products, such as fresh milk, eggs and poultry meat VAT, decreased to 5%, and the VAT on internet services decreased to 18%. The development of the economy is well demonstrated by the fact that economic operators are now facing a labour shortage and wage developments are therefore essential. This is why we have reduced the employer's tax rate by 5 percentage points and the corporate tax rate by 9 percent. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The performance of the Hungarian economy has improved a great deal in recent years, and this gives us the opportunity to implement measures from the surplus income of the economy that are directly visible to people and businesses. These measures represent real wage growth and increased consumption. Clearly, it is no coincidence that retail sales are also increasing, and people can spend more and more money. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What makes this interpellation, Mr. President? Is there a genre mistake?]] Dear Secretary of State, In view of the above, I ask what the effects of tax reductions will be in 2017. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Grimlock: Wow, how exciting!]]
u2017-02-20-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-02-20-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In 2010, the Fidesz Christian Democratic Government clearly defined the need for tax reductions from when the performance of the economy makes this possible. [[17.00]] And as you said in your interpellation, over the past six years, the government has been able to deliver a significant result in this area. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] There has been a reduction in all relevant taxes, including taxes on income taxes, turnover taxes and employers. The result is that the tax burden on GDP, which was above 40 per cent at the time of the socialists, will now fall below 38 per cent. But we were also able to achieve significant results in terms of a reduction in the tax base, as according to an OECD study, it has decreased by almost 4 percent, and so today it is 17.9% that the state is still able to collect. This measure was above 22 percent a few years ago. It is also very important to say, and you have stressed this, that all of this, in addition to a performance that is almost internationally unique, is that while taxes are falling, the budget deficit can also decrease; while tax revenues are reduced, while the budget deficit is decreasing, this is why the country has been able to get out of the excessive deficit procedure; or how there is, at the same time, a reduction in the ratio of public debt and its size. At the same time, it is the growth of economic performance, the expansion of occupation and the increase in consumption that is characteristic of the performance of the economy, the economic operators. In terms of personal income tax, the government can also produce results at international level, as in addition to Hungary, there are one-key personal income tax in five countries, and only in one country, Bulgaria, there is a lower rate. However, the government has been able to achieve the highest performance with the support of the families, and will continue to achieve it in the future, as the tax relief rate in the family is constantly increasing, since 2010 the burden of families has been reduced by HUF 3600 billion. I think that the six-year wage agreement that the government concluded in November last year with economic operators, employers and employees will help improve the situation of families, as the minimum wage will increase by 15 percent and the minimum wage will increase by 25 percent. At the same time, the tax on the employer decreased, i.e. the rate of the contribution from 27 per cent to 22 per cent. It should also be recognised at international level that companies' income tax is also decreasing, leaving more of it in a company's budget to spend on investment or wage increases and wage increases. [[In the notary seat, István Szávay replaces Dezső the Believer.]] From 1 January, the corporate tax rate has been reduced to 9 per cent, which is the lowest rate in the European Union. This leaves some 145 billion forints in the budget of businesses this year. Honourable Congressman, I can promise you that the government will continue this tax reduction policy in 2017. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-20-114	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome you and immediately ask Mr János Halász to accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go. [[Lajos Korózs: Yes!]]
u2017-02-20-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr State Secretary, for your reassuring response to tax cuts, but we must not forget that this may also be subject to an attack, and that more and more tax policy is being raised to Community level in the Union. If that happens, we will lose the right to shape our tax policy on our own. I ask the government to do everything possible to protect the results of the tax reduction from Brussels. Taxation must remain national, we must also protect the benefits of family taxation and reduce employers' taxes, as this will also help raise wages. Thank you very much. I accept your answer. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-20-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Korózs, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, Why are sick, unemployed people sentenced to death? What makes a person sick enough not to get a job, but not to be recognized by the state for their health problems? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-02-20-117	Thank you for the opportunity. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, In recent years, tens of thousands of people have been reduced or deprived of their supplies. Of course, I'm talking about the disabled and the disabled. At the end of the year, we read in the Government's decree that several transfers were made, forints 5 billion were first taken from the funding of the disabled, then HUF 5.7 billion, and, ultimately, the funds were reduced by HUF 3 billion, and all these funds were spent on the development of sports facilities. This also showed that the construction of football fields and the heating of lawns are more important than the financial assistance of people with changed or disabled skills. Many people are left without care. After the holidays, I received a lot of e-mails, a lot of phone calls that they were aware that even those people would be removed from the labour register, and only those who were entitled to the HUF 22 800 allowance would remain. As I mentioned in the title, these people are not disabled enough to receive care, but they are not healthy enough to do easy physical work. We could ask what's behind it. I would like to quote precisely, because last summer, a government decision was issued that concerns government measures for 2016 to increase the employability of jobseekers who cannot be employed for mental, social or health reasons. You understand, don't you, fellow Members? So about people who cannot be employed, the government resolution says that they want to be employed. I would like to stress that these people have valid decisions that they cannot be involved in employment. This government decision provided that the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Human Resources and the Ministry of Economic Affairs were also assigned, and a pilot program was announced, as far as I know, in 11 settlements, 4 counties, worth about HUF 300 million, and this special employment programme, as I mentioned, was spent at HUF 300 million. The government decision also decided that in January this year it was not enough to create this pilot program, and it would be extended. That is why I would like to ask the Secretary of State how it is possible for the poor and sick people who are in such a situation without their own fault to be taken away from care, and please tell me exactly how many people have been taken away from their only care. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-20-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the interpellation question raised will be Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-02-20-119	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Of course, we did not take care away from anyone, because we offer either jobs or care to all those who, by reason of their changed working capacity, demand it more. However, I cannot go without saying, honourable Member, that, when you were still in a government position, you were able to withdraw funds from people with disabilities without saying a word, in your last budget, you reduced the support of several organisations by HUF 450 million, thus reducing the support of the National Association of Deafs and Hearers by 72 percent, reducing the annual support of the National Association of Disabled Associations by 50 percent. [[Moore in the pro-government benches. Lajos Korózs: These are organizations, we are talking about people!]] The annual support of the National Association of Hungarian Blinds and Sensitives was reduced by 75%. [[Lajos Korózs: Talk about the disabled!]] And when these organizations resented this very large reduction of 50-75 percent, you personally said that they would apply and make up for the money you had withdrawn from the budget by way of tender. They just said in their communication that this would not be an acceptable way for us, and the way to work for them would have been to keep these subsidies. [[17.10]] At the same time, it was clear before 2010 and beyond 2010 that this system should be reviewed and that aid for people with disabilities should be granted to those who are truly entitled to do so. And those who are not entitled to this need to create jobs, which the government has done, because 700,000 new jobs have been created, and a lot of people have now been able to guarantee a living, not out of aid, but out of wages. This is, of course, a different approach than when you took the support of the organisations. Let us first look at the rules on the registration of job seekers that you have raised. In Hungarian, a person who is able and ready to work within 30 days can be considered an active job seeker, either by the state or in the job he has found, for at least 16 hours. The other supply system belongs to social assistance. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings of experts, meetings, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme. Within the care of active people, we can talk about health and child care support, which is what his name says, who, because of their health loss, cannot make a living, or their child needs constant supervision as a result of the child's health loss. They are the ones who can and may receive such special support, the care of the active age. A person who has lost at least 67 per cent of his or her working ability is considered to be in health impairment; who has at least 50 per cent of his or her health impairment; and who is receiving a personal benefit or disability allowance for the blind. Those who do not meet the above health conditions or who do not have a minor to supervise, have received and receive a replacement allowance for employment. And the social law clearly states that only the person who has been removed from the employment register by the public employment body for reasons that could be attributed to him can be denied access to an active person's care - here is the distortion that was in your text. Therefore, if a person is deleted for reasons of health damage and not because he had to be deleted for reasons attributable to him, this does not give rise to a legal basis for the removal of the subsidy to replace employment in his case, so he should continue to be entitled to it. I would also like to mention that in July 2016 the special public employment for which [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You referred, you started, and it works. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-02-20-120	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Lajos Korózs if he will accept the State Secretary's answer. Here you go.
u2017-02-20-121	I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary, I can't accept it. I've been to a settlement that's in this pilot program. There was only one person they couldn't show who was involved in this special employment - one! Not even the man who was appointed to be some kind of leader, foreman. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Did you find me in another settlement?]] I didn't get the answer to how many people were taken away from their care, and I didn't get an answer, Mr. Secretary, to how many people were removed from the labour register for these reasons. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: There is no reason for what you said...]] Therefore, Mr President, I cannot accept the Secretary of State's answer. Thank you.
u2017-02-20-122	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The congressman, as we heard, did not accept the Secretary of State's answer. So I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 24 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade: It's an address. Congressman Gergely Kulcsár, please.
u2017-02-20-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, István Mikola, Head of State Secretariat for Security and International Cooperation, was the OECD ambassador of Hungary in Paris between 2011-2014. His third wife, Róza Fülemen, who was divorced in 2015 by the State Secretary, was forced to give up all his money-seeking activities and to pay his contributions from his savings for three years. The woman is now retiring, so she asked for the recognition of her period as a diplomatic wife, but the allowance for her had migrated to Mikola's pension fund. Róza Fülemen indicated to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade that he had not seen a single euro out of the monthly salary of EUR 1600 in principle. All of this, with Mikola receiving a salary of EUR 5000, i.e. approximately HUF 1.5 million, and full ambassadorial care during the period spent out there, which she left out of her 2014 tax return as it is. Mikola, according to her declarations of assets, is one of the poorest members of the government: despite her 1.1 million State Secretary's salary, her savings are falling. The polyhistorian Mikola is also at home in antiquities. Recently, his ex-wife also reported him for stealing because an antique furniture collection worth 10 million disappeared from Paris, which was then found in the apartment of the Fidesz politician in Budapest. As a good fidesz custom, offshore business is not far from it. In one of the European offshore paradises, he set up a foundation to manage family money. The company founded in Vaduz, Liechtenstein, has not been included in any of Mikola's statements. Although this forgetfulness is also typical of pro-government politicians. Earlier, in order to mention only a few, Antal Rogán, we can remember that he didn't even know how many units of real estate he owned and what they were. But we can talk about István Tiba or László Tasó, who also missed their memory when they had to fill out their declarations of property. The accompanying figure also shows that Hungary's government is doing better - stealing, hustling, corruption better than anyone else. Dear Secretary of State, Today, I will initiate a declaration of property proceeding against István Mikola, but I have no illusions. This will be swept away, as we have done with many other initiatives. That's why I'm asking: are you still refusing to reform the property declaration system? Why doesn't the government support the publicity of the family's property statements? After what happened, can István Mikola remain your Secretary of State? I look forward to your substantive, non-conceived response. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-02-20-124	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Magyar Levente, who will give the answer to the question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-02-20-125	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Congressman, It's hard to outshine what you've been saying for the past few minutes. I think that the use of the valuable opportunity of the parliamentary interpellation to make accusations against one of the most experienced members of the government, which are not supported by confusing, rather incoherent, credible facts, shows, at least, that Jobbik does not have anything to say about the future of Hungary in the winter of 2017, a long time before the next parliamentary elections. This fact is certainly causing considerable confusion in your shrinking camp. Perhaps a serious political force could be expected not to communicate at this level in Parliament. Honourable Congressman, If you make such accusations, then next time you'll give me some credible data to back this up. It is particularly striking and repulsive, Congressman, that a divorce case that occurred years ago brings up personal, private, financial moments here, and brings them to the public of the country. I'm sure you're aware of the extreme emotional demonstration that can take place in such a personal crisis. This is about asking questions raised in Parliament in a personal crisis three or four years ago, once again: completely incoherent and completely independent of the political context in question. I can assure the congressman, by the way, that if, God forbid, you are in a similar situation, we will certainly not be upsetting it. [[Constant interruptions from Jobbik's benches.]] And to discuss your private affairs in front of the world. With great respect, I urge the Member that, given that Mr Mikola, Secretary of State, I believe that he has demonstrated his commitment to the nation on numerous occasions in his decades of career, he has demonstrated that he will stand up both as a doctor and as a politician and as a minister of medicine, and since he has probably served three times as much in public life as he and I have done together, I suggest that he should speak more respect for the Secretary of State only because of the differences between his age and his professional performance. [[Adam Mirkóczki: You can steal, right?]] And the next time you make such accusations, once again, not in front of Parliament, the public of politics, but in the proper way of authority, more discreetly; although I can assure you that you will not advance there, because this is a political fabrication that you have come up with here. [[17.20]] If you wish to take any official action in relation to Mr Mikola's private life, I urge you to do so, but once again I urge you to discuss these matters more discreetly in front of the public of this country, in front of Parliament, if possible, not at all, as otherwise, honourable Member, you can be sure that if you are in such a situation, no one will blame you. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-20-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2017-02-20-127	Dear Secretary of State, You've been watching another broadcast. I was talking about public money and a declaration of assets, not privacy. [[Interviews in the ranks of Fidesz.]] By the way, you steal about 400 million forints a year from the state register, that's what goes to corruption, according to conservative estimates. By the way, you're talking about a credible program that Jobbik doesn't have. Yes, you do. As we enter the government, we will have political criminals accounted for, whether it is a Fidesz or an MSZP, set up the anti-corruption prosecutor's office, raise the public profile of the family's assets to legal force, reform the whole system, and introduce a mandatory assetisation investigation for Members and members of the government. You have constantly swept these proposals off the table. The Jobbik government, which will be in power in 2018, will do so. I don't accept your answer. [[Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: That's right! Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-20-128	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 24 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, MEPs Ákos Hadházy and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:, How long will the drinking water be undrinkable in Baja? It's an address. On behalf of Mr Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is competent and competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Zsolt Szabó will respond to the interpellation. I now give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity, the notary of Parliament. Here you go.
u2017-02-20-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The Local Government Association for the Improvement of Drinking Water Quality in Felső-Bácska submitted an application for KEOP's water quality improvement proposal back in 2011. They received a net grant of HUF 4.2 billion to cover the investment costs. In the meantime, the total cost has increased to HUF 5.9 billion and the grant content has increased to HUF 4.9 billion. The closure of the project was preceded by high expectations for the general public. In the period since then, however, many have seen, not only an improvement in the quality of the drinking water supplied, but rather a worsening visible to the naked eye. As a resident of Baja, as a Member of Parliament, I must express my concern that after spending a great deal of public money, the service needed for everyday life was damaged when the quality of drinking water deteriorated significantly in Baja and its surroundings last year. According to the complaints I received, the chlorine content of the water is significantly higher than in the past, and there is often a large amount of contamination in the water. The Authority, after examining it, detected an increased manganese and ammonia content in half of the samples. This water has been distressing the lives of many of his troubles for a year now. Dear Secretary of State, Under the Government decree on the tasks and powers of the members of the government, the Minister supervises the tasks relating to the water quality improvement programme. That is why I wish to ask you: how do you consider that the project has achieved its goal if, despite the so-called successful closure, the authority, the municipal association and the contractors are still looking for only the cause of the problem that has arisen in 2017? This project was completed in May 2015. If by March the Authority has requested a plan of measures to improve the repair of nearly HUF 6 billion, when will this drinking water be of impeccable quality? And who will pay for any further repairs? What do you think a project that ended in 2015 still has such problems at the beginning of 2017 and you still can't see when it will be all right? Who's responsible for this? And why do those who caused this problem investigate the problem? Where is government competence and responsibility? We are talking about 26 settlements, about 90,000 people. Please clear the air. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]]
u2017-02-20-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer will be given by Secretary of State Zsolt Szabó. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-02-20-131	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, If I had to respond briefly, I would say that maintenance, system maintenance, is not a drinking water quality improvement program. A little more: the upper-Bácska drinking water quality improvement project affects 25 municipalities and ended on 10 December 2015. The closing dossier was submitted on 15 January. The aim of the project is to supply drinking water to around 90,000 people living in the region be insured. The final payment claim and the final report have been found and accepted by the managing authority on the basis of the documents submitted, the water managers have been built, with the exception of one, where an operating licence is still being obtained due to unforeseen circumstances. The network reconstruction can only cover up to 20 percent of the call for proposals - you obviously know that - and is therefore fully used, but not in the whole system, 100 percent. The reconstruction works did not cover the entire drinking water network of the municipalities concerned, but this was not the project's aim, but primarily the construction of new technology in 16 affected settlements. During the water quality improvement programme, iron, manganese and ammonium-free technology was built. In the Baja waterworks, the new technology developed in the framework of the drinking water quality improvement project was completed in December 2016. According to the information provided by the Ministry of Human Resources, according to the data of the national drinking water quality database for last year, Baján is representative of the quality parameters provided during the period under investigation. No objections to ammonium and nitrite were raised. In 2016, the drinking water of the settlement was of sufficient microbiological quality. The number of public announcements on Baja's drinking water increased sharply in January 2017. After the announcements, the Bács-Kiskun County Government Office verified the network quality of the Martins' Waterworks and the chemical and bacteriological quality of the outgoing water. On the basis of the 11 sampling points carried out in an accredited laboratory covering the Baja water network and of the outflow of water, it was found that the water leaving the waterworks plant was of sufficient quality on the basis of the components tested, but in the case of samples from certain network sampling points the ammonium content was slightly higher and the manganese content significantly exceeded the required limit. On 30 January 2017, the Government Office ordered the water utility provider to rinse the network at a section with a manganese content exceeding the limit, to wash it, regardless of the approved self-control sampling plan for 2017, to extra-screen the problem network sections within three months and to carry out a technical review of the water supply system and its network. Based on the information provided by the water utility provider, the public complaints in Baja cannot be linked to the drinking water quality improvement programme. The deterioration in drinking water quality in the city resulted from two consecutive pipe breaks in the main spinal cord and was due to subsequent network maintenance and disinfection. Please review and accept my reply. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-20-132	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr István Ikotity, notary, if he will accept the Secretary of State's reply. Here you go. [[17 .30]]
u2017-02-20-133	Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, What is in front of me on the table is also an illustration [[It points to the glass on your table, which is filled with dark liquid.]] If you really want to. But it's actually just drinking water. I'm a Baja resident, as I indicated, and in my own household, it was from the faucet called water. I think maybe some people would think of coffee from a faraway point of view. How can you accept that answer? How can those words be against these facts? I am not saying that this is what is going on in your taps all the time, but it is often and often the case with many people, and it is indeed related to what you call the improvement of the quality of drinking water. I think it's a shame. I am very sorry that Mr Secretary of State has not named those responsible for this and has not given an answer as to when this situation will be resolved. I can't accept your answer. [[Agnes Kunhalmi applauds.]]
u2017-02-20-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, the congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's answer. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply by 107 yes, 25 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. What is the reason why tens of thousands of free meals are left out every holiday? Why does the government also steal money for children in need? It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-02-20-135	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, After 2002, the Hungarian Socialist Party gradually extended the programme for the feeding of children in need. As part of this, children living in poverty have been given an increasing benefit in daycare, kindergartens, and schools. For years, the Socialist Party has been saying that if Hungary is performing better, why do not those who have nothing or very little income give more. The government, while filling the pockets of their family, friends, gradually reduced social expenses. This has now been made public by the statistical office of the Union. The government stabbed the civil initiative on child hunger, including the national minimum programme, in the back, we remember it. At first, he pretended to support it, started making big promises. State Secretary Károly Czibere announced in the summer of 2015 that discussions were under way to ensure the summer meals of nearly 500 thousand children receiving the benefit, according to him all the conditions were given and there was capacity. At the time, they examined whether 3 billion forints would be enough. Then in the autumn of 2015, the twist came: there will be a holiday meal, but not for half a million children, but only for 200,000 children. Because they've changed the circle of children in need. Right now, he's not poor in the middle of the year, but he's on vacation. By the way, nothing's changed. You're the only ones who rewrote the needy. But the new system doesn't work properly. In spite of the promise that 208 thousand disadvantaged and cumulative disadvantaged children would be fed during the holidays, only 96 thousand children were fed during spring break, even though they lied for six months that 142 were 96. Then I asked how many people were eating during the fall break. During the fall break 113 548 children, during the summer break 140 228 and during the winter break 126 051 children. It's true that they lied all the time, or they didn't want to betray you, Mr. Secretary. Secretary of State, what's so complicated? If you have assessed that 208 thousand children are in need in Hungary today - the Ministry of National Economy and EMMI - instead of 500 thousand, what is so complicated? I know they put in half the sentence that the parent has to ask. So you couldn't just give it to the kids. Secretary of State, for once in your life, please be honest and explain why billions of children are being stolen at the end of the year, at the end of the year, in the third year. All the time, Mr. Secretary. Answer me that.
u2017-02-20-136	Congresswoman, we will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-02-20-137	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Perhaps the numbers on this topic are more talkative than anything else. During the socialist period, he fed free of charge to a small child, to daycare, to kindergartens [[Zoltán Grimlock: There wasn't that many poor people, man!]] How many free-eaten children do you have now? [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: There weren't so many poor children, Mr. Secretary of State! It's constant noise.]] How much for one that time? Three! Three times as many children... [[It's a lot of noise. Lajos Korózs: Three times as many poor people!]] Three times as many children are entitled to a free meal. You provided this to 92,000, we give it to 318 thousand. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: 144,000 children received it!]] Three times, three times as many children of our young children have been entitled to a free meal as you have. How is the number of children eaten during spring break, what is the ratio between the number of children receiving free meals at your time and the number of children receiving free meals during spring break and the number of children receiving free meals at this time? [[Dr. László Kács: You steer a little bit and you'll be poor.]] This connection is incomprehensible. [[It's a lot of noise. Bangóné Borbély Ildikó's intervention.]] You gave zero children free to eat during spring break. [[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP, including Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Shame on you!]] How does this relate to the fall break? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Similarly, it is mathematically incomprehensible, because you have given zero, or zero children free to eat, as opposed to more than 100,000 children now receiving this. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Half a million are in need!]] What about winter break? Perhaps you already know how many children have been given free food compared to the number above 100,000? Zero children were given free meals! After that, Congresswoman, you stand up here and you ask for the government of schoolchildren who, during spring, autumn and winter holidays, have raised the number of right holders from zero to over 100,000, asking for the government [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] which, among nursery and kindergarten children, gives three children instead of one child a proportionate number of free meals. [[Zoltán Grimlock: How much has the poor man become?]] After that, you're the one who's talking about the need for more resources, that more kids should be able to provide that. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You must answer, not point.]] You were HUF 29 billion in 2010 for every parliamentary vote, and this year we raised this amount to HUF 74 billion in 2017 and voted against every increase. Both you and the entire MSZP fraction. [[Zoltán Gőgös: 120 billion went to stadiums!]] In each vote, when these items could have been raised, when they could have increased the scope of the rightholder [[Zoltán Grimlock: You're lying again!]] They voted against and did not vote here in Parliament on any occasion. And we expanded this circle year after year, and the last change was precisely that it was no longer for the municipalities to claim it, so that it was not up to the municipalities to decide whether or not to require it, but to act automatically. If the parents ask for it, the child gets it. How many parents have this government refused their request on grounds of a lack of resources? Zero! [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Shame on you! You're gonna hit the local government again. It's always someone else's fault.]] Anyone who asked for free children's meals on a need-to-know basis, as a support in kind, is the parent, the family received them from this government. No one was ever rejected, nor when there was a municipal tender, no settlement received a letter that could not be received by reference to a lack of resources, and no parent could receive a letter that could not be received by reference to a lack of funds. Because that's what we've provided for everyone. [[When was the last time you were in Borsod?]] And in order for everyone to be able to use it, the notary has sent out a written notice that anyone who meets the eligibility criteria is entitled to so request. After 17 May, all needy families were personally approached by the family and child welfare staff and helped fill out these requests, so that if anyone has a problem with not being able to apply for them, they can help them. We've got everyone covered. All the right holders were informed in writing. Our social colleagues have gone out to all the beneficiaries and helped these families to provide in-kind assistance. [[Nándor Gúr: This is simply not so!]] I think the right thing to do now would be to accept that answer, Congresswoman. [[Long-lasting, great applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-02-20-138	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much, congressmen and ladies. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It's very easy to applaud. It's a lot of noise.]] My fellow Members, I will speak to you when it comes to you, but the floor is now with the Member. Listen to him. Here you go.
u2017-02-20-139	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State and fellow Members, can you look in the mirror? [[Big noise, interrogations from the pro-government benches, among other things: Zero! Zero!]] What you're doing is disgusting. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál raised his hand high, forming zero with his right thumb and index finger. It's a lot of noise.]] If you know that 208,000 children are in need today because they've assessed it, why do you have to put separate passes in it? You know, Mr. Secretary, when a child starves, it's always the responsibility of an adult and the responsibility of a given government. [[17.40]] We're not on the government, Mr. Secretary. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Thank God.]] It's you! You're on the wheel! And if the child is starving, it's not my fault, it's your fault, and you're responsible for the fact that there are starving children in Hungary today. So you should be ashamed of yourself. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-02-20-140	Congresswoman! Do you accept the answer? Congresswoman! Do you accept the Secretary of State's answer? [[For signal:]] He won't take it. Thank you. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, the Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I am asking you if you will accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 18 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Member Tamás Sneider, representative of Jobbik, Vice-President of Parliament, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: So now it's a real success story for the social sector to pay, isn't it? It's an address. Mr Tamás Sneider, Vice President, has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2017-02-20-141	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The salary arrangement of 93,000 employees in the social sector has been waiting for years. It was a number of promises, but instead of real wage arrangements, the government made replacements. There was a sectoral bonus, a supplement, now there is a consolidated bonus. Meanwhile, the basic wage hasn't changed for nearly a decade. The sector's net average income figures speak for themselves, despite the government's insistence on the amazing increase in social pay in recent years. But if you look not at the statistics, but at specific cases from the beginning of February, you can see that there were some who had a 14 forint decrease in their salary, some who had a 43 forint increase - this is much better. It is true that the government provides 32 billion HUF compensation to the maintainers to cover the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. Thus, the wages of workers in the social sector have been adjusted to the minimum wage. Congratulations, you can be very proud of that, because there hasn't been any change in this area in seven years. In addition, it is a recent result that the social sector has a salary of HUF 7.5 billion in higher education. However, this affects less than 15,000 of the 93,000 workers. Moreover, the credibility of the government is well demonstrated by the fact that a large number of social professionals have already dealt with the announcement of Secretary Károly Czibere on wage planning. Several people wrote it, and then believe it when it appears in the Hungarian Gazette - it appeared. However, in the light of previous experience, I think it is certain that the payment will only come and will be when the workers actually receive it, since there have been cases in which the whole wage increase or replacement system has been canceled at the last minute. The most painful thing is that this wage arrangement has left out those with secondary education. They, who work in many areas, such as child protection, homelessness, elderly care, the care of people with disabilities or psychiatric patients, are victims and underestimated. Dear Secretary of State, There is constant promise of wage increases and social career models, but all of this is promises and donations, without any real progress. The elimination of inequality, the achievement of the Western social level, without highly paid social workers. We're light years away from this. Will there be a wage increase for all social workers, Mr. Secretary? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-20-142	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, Mr Vice President, the Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, will answer your interpellation question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-02-20-143	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is also an important issue for the government to raise the wages of workers in the social sector. Fortunately, wages are now rising in many sectors, whether in armed bodies or in professional populations. It has started with teachers, continued in health care, and indeed the social area is an area where the work carried out there deserves to be increased by wages, and, by strengthening Hungary, the government now has the opportunity to do so and to express in material terms the extra respect that the workers in the social sector deserve. The plan adopted by the government - and the budgetary bases of this plan are included in the 2017 budget this year, as they were in previous years' budgets - to increase the social sector's wages by 62 percent overall between 2013 and 2018. A part of this has already been done, as you mentioned the sectoral wage supplement and the wage supplement. As a result, between 2014 and 2016, for example, the wages of a child inspector with a professional degree, who has been on the field for 32 years, increased by HUF 36,000, to a college-educated, career-starting family carer, so who is starting his career now grew by HUF 43,700. So now you get 43 700 forints more or you got more last year if you start your career as a family care provider, as if you started in 2013. If someone started their social career as a social advisor last year, they will start from a salary of HUF 52,000 higher than a career starter started three, four or five years ago. As you have mentioned, there have been more increases, all of which have been worth HUF 60 billion in the last two years, as we have spent more on wages in the social sector than before. On average, the increase of 14 was HUF 8800, but those who also received additional allowances because they worked in the profession for many years, but those who had increased their salary by HUF 16,000. Many people are affected by a 15% and 25% increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage in the social sphere. For this reason, social services, state and ecclesiasticals will also receive special support in order to manage this extra wage. In the following, the non-state maintainers received higher monthly funding to manage this wage, the 15 percent and 25 percent increase in wages. This affected and affects 83 678 workers and 5800 foster parents in the social sector. I think it's good news for all of you that this salary increase is good news. These wage increases add up a little bit to the pay table, and after the sectoral wage bonus, the purpose of the pay supplement was to be able to give a higher wage to workers with higher qualifications or better qualified in further trainings that have been on track for a longer period of time. Now that the salary of most workers is increasing by 25 percent, with the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, they are paid so much higher because of the increase in the skilled minimum wage, which is why the wages of those with higher qualifications and the wages of those with skilled qualifications can be constrained. Therefore, from a HUF 7.5 billion framework for those who have not been affected by the minimum wage increase or are disproportionately affected or above, we are doing a differentiation, the average rate of which is HUF 35,000 for 14 thousand people. But there will also be employees in the social sector who will receive HUF 84 585, but on average it will be HUF 35,000, which we can devote to the wage growth of more qualified workers. I think it's a very important process, and I trust that you will keep many people on the social field in their vocation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-20-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr. Vice-President if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2017-02-20-145	Dear Secretary of State, With this, the social sector remains the lowest-paid sector in Hungary. These surrogates you're talking about, they're still surrogates that can be taken away at any time. The employees are asking for a raise. The workers are asking for a raise. The situation is virtually unchanged in the social sector. People are still overwhelmed, there is almost no professional support for them, they are not valued financially, morally. We need real wage arrangements. Just as there is a serious catch-up in the field of education and health, we need it here, but it's still nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, It is simply necessary to see that if we do not invest much more money in this sector and in these sectors and we do not value these workers, Hungary will not rise, it will never reach the Western European level; because, after the Second World War, Western Europe was able to develop by investing first in human capital, and then it will return to the economy. Here in Hungary, the opposite has so far happened. I can't accept it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[17.50]]
u2017-02-20-146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, Mr Vice-President did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 27 against and without abstentions. It's 5:50, we're at the end of the interpellations. Now, in order of business, Secretary of State Bence Retvári asked for the floor. [[Noise.]] I would ask my fellow Members to remain in their seats. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-02-20-147	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I asked for the floor when Congressman László György Lukács made false statements against me. On the one hand, I would like to say that these assumptions are unfounded, in relation to a non-existent relative of mine, who is, at most, a relative of my name, but not a real relative. But that is not the most important issue in this matter, but that this question, the assumption that our fellow Member György Lukács put, has been given several times in the previous weeks by News TV reporters every day. But after News TV reporters realized that they had wandered into an area where they claimed to be untrue, they gave up this struggle and did not try to make this false statement. But since Jobbik and News TV eat from the same hand, so what News TV can't bring down, here are the bettermen who serve the same interests here in Parliament. I think what György Lukács has proved is that he eats from the same hand as they feed News TV. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2017-02-20-148	Thank you very much. Secretary of State didn't tell me you were speaking about a personal assault. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for immediate questioning. Members who are now leaving the Chamber, I ask you to do so without disturbing the continuation of this meeting. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. It's time for immediate questioning. Member Attila Mesterházy, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:, Why did you ignore the fact that the Constitutional Protection Office has identified two serious risks in connection with the screening of Szilárd Kiss? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. István Nagy State Secretary to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[Attila Mesterházy: Yes.]] Congressman says he'll take it. You have the floor.
u2017-02-20-149	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I do accept Mr Secretary of State as a replyer, but it would be good if the Minister had the courage now to come into this House and answer some very simple questions, but I also hope that Mr Secretary of State, because his colleague, the Minister, may have given us the information we need. As has been said in the question, there is a person named Szilárd Kiss, who is a kind of con artist with confused economic relationships, confused relationships, confused economic affairs. This man was so important to Minister Sándor Fazekas that, despite all constitutional or national security risks, he insisted on his person to represent the Hungarian agricultural economy in Moscow as an agricultural diplomat. I ask Mr Secretary of State, since I cannot ask Minister why, after this man fails the national security investigation in 2011, the Minister has the right to make a different decision, which he has decided to do, he will go beyond this and appoint him as an agricultural diplomat. Then, in 2013, this man will fail the national security investigation, and then this problem will be solved by the Ministry and Minister Fazekas by appointing him as ministerial commissioner, which does not require national security clearance. In the meantime, the person was previously convicted of a court-ordered visa shopping in Russia, i.e. dealing with visas and other confused economic matters, but this does not bother the minister. I would therefore like to ask two questions to the Secretary of State. Why did the Minister ignore the national security risk, so why was the appointment of Szilárd Kiss so important. Of the 10 million Hungarians, they found nothing else to represent the Hungarian state in Moscow but him? My second question is: did Minister Sándor Fazekas inform the Minister of Foreign Affairs that he has appointed a diplomat to the Moscow embassy who carries a national security risk and has put the entire Hungarian diplomatic colony in Moscow in jeopardy? Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-02-20-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-02-20-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My esteemed fellow Member. The Hungarian press has been dealing with Szilárd Kiss's case for almost two years, referring to the material of the C-type national security screening. It makes me wonder how a closed, secret investigation material can get out to the public. The Department of Agriculture doesn't usually receive this kind of material. I didn't see it either. It should also be noted that the ministries may also not provide information on data classified under the current legislation. The authorities investigating the Kiss Szilárd case have helped with all the knowledge available to them by the Ministry of Agriculture and will continue to do so. Of course, according to the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, anyone who violates the law will have to face the consequences. The arrest or prosecution of Szilárd Kiss is not related to the work he has done for FM. In connection with the Kiss Szilárd case, the investigating authorities are entitled to make a statement. As a diplomat, Szilárd Kiss worked in Moscow, he was not a direct colleague of the Minister, he was not granted any other benefits besides his wages. It should be noted that Hungary's agricultural exports to Russia increased by 25 percent in 2012 and 2013 along the lines of Szilárd Kiss's activities as agricultural attaché. By the way, Szilárd Kiss did not receive the appointment of a ministerial commissioner, he did not hold such a position at the wallet, he worked as a ministerial commissioner. I would like to add to your question, Mr President, whether Szilárd Kiss was a national security risk to his activities, that Szilárd Kiss's activities did not pose a national security risk because he did not have a C rating, so he could not have access to classified data by human calculation at the time of his deployment in Moscow. Thank you very much. [[Noise on the opposition side.]]
u2017-02-20-152	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2017-02-20-153	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, The problem is not that any of the results have been avoided, but that the Minister has decided to send this man out despite the risk of national security. As an agricultural diplomat, he worked in agro-businesses. If this man hadn't done anything else, he would have been incompatible with the mission outside. He didn't work with the minister, but he was a ministerial commissioner. Well, then how the heck can someone be a ministerial commissioner when you're not working with the man who hired you to do that job? With due respect, I'd like to ask you again, how is it that Prodexpo had this man jumping at the Agrármarketing Center booth two weeks ago in Moscow. They're investigating his cases so much that they didn't even include his passport while he spent time in pre-trial detention. He's running in Hungary with diplomatic registration! This cannot be done in Hungary without political protection, and we will therefore deal with this issue not only now but in the next year and a half in Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-02-20-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-02-20-155	Ladies and gentlemen, Until 2013, for 23 years, every person seeking screening had a license to override and consider the risk that what was discovered in his investigation would affect his work, whether he was a risk or not. From 2014, no one has the opportunity to do so, because if a case, a moment that is dangerous is discovered in the investigation of the Office, there is no discretion at that moment, no job can be appointed. Thank you very much. [[18.00]]
u2017-02-20-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman György Szilágyi, the representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title "Personal Declaration." Prime Minister István Simicskó appointed Minister for Defence to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or waits for the Prime Minister to be present in Parliament.
u2017-02-20-157	Mr. President, I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister.
u2017-02-20-158	Thank you very much. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. Problems to be launched on the side of the road? It's an address. Minister has appointed Mr Péter Cseresnyés Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Congressman tells me you'll accept it. Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2017-02-20-159	Mr President, Dear House, I have talked many times about how this government has looted foreign exchange credit victims, that it has made a pact with the banking system, when it has calculated these so-called loans at 256 HUF rather than at the rate of admission, almost at the market rate. Of course, allowing their own good friends to make the 180 HUF final repayment by applying a nasty double standard. The present situation is that the members of the governing parties have written out on the posters that they have accounted for the banks concerned, while there are still more than 140,000 people who are left behind, largely without their own fault, that the terror of eviction can threaten them at any time. And there are 18,000 foreign exchange-loan lawsuits that this cabinet is trying to fix at any cost. Of course, without trying to interfere with the work of the courts or their independence, I must ask the question, Mr Secretary. What is your personal view of the statement made at the conciliation of the Pécs Tribunal and the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice that the attempts of those who have suffered foreign exchange credit should in fact only be launched? What kind of climate have you developed where you feel that this might fit? Or are the representatives of the governing parties not yelling or making noise the next day about the fact that this is not permissible, that we are not talking about people in trouble, our fellow countrymen? The thing is, now it's two years past eight. Government periods can be discussed one after another where prices have been allowed to rise to about 20 times the level of governments with different colours, while wage increases have been only six times during the period under consideration. So they forced the population that is now not being protected from this disaster, but they have directly credited the hundreds of billions in bank accounts. That is why the question arises, Mr Secretary: do you feel that these statements can be accepted, or do you wish to do anything for the people in distress? Or do we have to watch evictions because of you? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-20-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I have already said, will be given by Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go.
u2017-02-20-161	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I don't want to comment on anything you can't comment on. However, it can be concluded that this government inherited a considerable burden in many respects in 2010. It was also necessary to solve problems caused to a significant extent by the previous government to Hungarian citizens, as there were over a million borrowers who had been invested in foreign currency loans or were encouraged to take on foreign currency credit by misdirection. And it turns out that what is hard to imagine happened in early 2007-2008 in the context of an exchange rate change that the low repayment promised during socialist governments increased significantly. In 2010, this problem had to be addressed in such a way that the balance of the budget had to be maintained. The contracts concluded by banks and citizens could not be interfered, and could have been most influenced. And you must also acknowledge that the government, the government that was established in 2010, has taken significant steps to reduce the burden of repayment and foreign exchange credit to citizens, and, if possible, by various measures, repayment of loan contracts or reduction of monthly instalments, to help citizens get out of the pressure caused by foreign exchange credit. To this end, it should be mentioned that between 2010 and 14 we were able to manage the debt management of many citizens, debtors, by means of repayments, exchange rate barriers and the establishment of the National Asset Manager. This affected about half a million people and affected thousands of people in later actions. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] But I will continue in one minute on what measures we have taken, and since we have tried to relieve the burden of citizens, we will try to alleviate the burden of debtors.
u2017-02-20-162	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpát. Here you go.
u2017-02-20-163	Mr President, Dear House, I agree with Mr. Secretary of State on one thing: a lot of people have been taken down. Yeah, they took care of their fate. Now I have to hear from you again this Czechoslovak text about what they were supposed to be trying to do. My question was clear. What are they planning to do in the future, and how do they intend to prevent us from facing thousands of literally evictions? Once again, the Czechoslovak text here is not enough. Mr. Secretary. If you do not have an answer to this social crisis, then there will be a new government, a new accounting and accountability process. And I have to say, then the bailiffs, the bankers, the politicians involved, many of you will end up on the bench of the defendants. You have a year. Let's divide that one year well, because if you don't change this situation, then a future Jobbik government will have this accountability process. [[Károly Kontra: Don't threaten me!]] within the legislative framework, but relentlessly, and anyone who has any involvement in this assassination will be punished for it. That's what I want you to be prepared for. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-20-164	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State.
u2017-02-20-165	Thank you. I would not wish to open a debate on the wording of the Czechoslovak text, but the populism you have just said would, I think, be very serious about this concept. Because if you deny that this government has not done everything in order to ensure that the debtors, the Hungarian citizens, who have been in foreign exchange loans and under the pressure of foreign exchange loans, have not tried to help, you have not been here for the last six years or have slept through these six years. So it is not worth listing to you the measures that we have tried to help and have helped the credible, the credit takers, precisely because you do not acknowledge this and do not want to accept it, but repeats the mantra-like thoughts you have formulated in each speech. So, I don't think there's any point in discussing this with you. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-20-166	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, the leader of the LMP Group, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: -Why is Sándor Kiss Szilárd Fazekas untouchable? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. István Nagy State Secretary to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask Madam Group leader whether she accepts the person of the responding party or waits for the Minister's presence in Parliament to respond.
u2017-02-20-167	Thank you, Mr. President, I'll wait for Minister.
u2017-02-20-168	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck and Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representatives of the LMP, wish to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Is this a civil Hungary? It's an address. Prime Minister has appointed Minister István Simicskó to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or waits for the Prime Minister to be present in Parliament.
u2017-02-20-169	Although I will specifically ask Prime Minister why he was thinking of Minister Simicskó in replying to the question, I cannot accept it if you do not mind, Minister, and I would like to wait for Prime Minister.
u2017-02-20-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congressman Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "When has the government's oracle been restored?" It's an address. Prime Minister István Simicskó appointed Minister for Defence to respond to his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2017-02-20-171	I'm forced to accept it, as far as I can tell.
u2017-02-20-172	You don't have to do that, Congressman. It's up to you.
u2017-02-20-173	Then I'll wait for Prime Minister. [[18.10]]
u2017-02-20-174	He's waiting for the Prime Minister's presence. I would like to inform the House and the Member that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Merry Congressman István, representative of Fidesz... [[Rush and applause in the benches of the Jobbik.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I see that you are very popular, Mr Happy István, and believe me, an absolutely excellent Member, I pay great respect to him, but let him now be able to say all that he has applied for. So Congressman István Happy, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: what does the right-wing model of Verpataki really mean? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Károly Kontra as Secretary of State for his reply in response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you, Congressman, whether you will accept the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Congressman indicates that he accepts the person of State Secretary Károly Kontra. [[Happy István: The time is running, Mr. President. Time's at 7 seconds! Noise. Z. Carpathian Daniel: Hard! Hard! Try without paper. Dóra Dúró: The question is also a lie! Happy István: The time is 10 seconds!]] Fellow Members! No! Will you please leave Mr Happy Congressman to say all the things he wants to say? [[Happy István: Mr President, the time is at 21 seconds! Noise in Jobbik's benches. Ádám Mirkóczki: He also lies on the issue!]] Congressman! I'll take care of the appointment, that's my job. Happy Congressman István has the floor, and I ask you to restore the clock, at the same time.
u2017-02-20-175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The Jobbik likes to introduce himself as a party to impureness and a leader in clean public life. On the other hand, the reality is that wherever they get close to power, there are serious abuses. It is enough to think in the European Parliament about Csanád Szeged's fictitious clearing matters or of Béla Kovács's agent activity. Oz, the mayor of which is given by Jobbik, is loud only from scandals, from wrongdoing. In view of this, we are no longer surprised at the discovery of another lawlessness linked to Verpatak. According to press reports released the other day, companies linked to Zoltán Orosz Mihály, Mayor of Verpatak have allegedly acquired the property of more than 50 families illegally and have been renovated with public money. This is also remarkable because he considers Russian to be one of Gábor Vona's main political allies and has recently concluded a close cooperation agreement with him. [[Dóra Dúró: It's not true! A voice from Jobbik's benches:]] In fact, he used to be an example of his mayor's activities to several better city leaders. Vona also talked about the so-called Verpataki model, in which she mentioned the activity of Zoltán Orosz Mihály as an example. According to the news, private companies linked to Zoltán and his partner, Russian Mihály, have turned old, often uneducated people out of their wealth. They used lawyer tricks and misleading contracts to get themselves the properties of the scams that were then renovated with public money. It is said that more than 50 people have been fooled, and it is a little over 150 million forints of public money. According to the news, the mayor is trying to circumvent the ongoing investigation by hiding behind the better man's skirt. [[Dóra Dúró: The skirt again!]] He's practically hiding. [[There's a rush in Jobbik's benches.]] So you can see how Jobbik really works. Corruption has become a calling word recently, but we can see that corruption related to them is emerging. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Secretary of State, I respectfully ask if there's been an investigation into the Russian Michael case. What does the right-wing model in Veerpataki really mean? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-20-176	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Károly Kontra. I would ask my fellow Members to listen carefully to the answer. Listen. [[Intercoms.]]
u2017-02-20-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungary is a democratic rule of law, where no one can be above the law, everyone, every man who has broken the law must bear the consequences of his actions. [[Dr. László Kács: That's why you get an ethics at Fidesz! Zoltán Grimlock: Like Lőrinc Ripper.]] The Hungarian police are taking decisive action against all criminals in all the settlements of Hungary in order to preserve the safety of people's lives and property, public security and legality. In connection with Erpatak, indeed, a number of news articles and news articles have been published on the operation and activities of the municipality of Érpatak and the mayor of Érpatak. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: In what colors mayor?]] The municipality or the body of representatives, the representatives, have the duty under the law to act legally in the field of the use of public funds for the benefit of the municipality and the inhabitants of the settlement. But the authorities must also monitor compliance with legality. The police and the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County Government Office did the same. On 30 May 2016 and 7 July 2016, on the basis of reports made by private individuals and the Government Office, the Nyíregyháza District Detective Public Prosecutor's Office ordered an investigation into the suspicion of fraudulent treatment and fraud. According to the content of the reports - and I quote - the mayor's office abuses the situation by getting the properties in the Verpatak settlement in a row, renovating them with the local government companies, renovating them, and then renting them for 10-15 thousand HUF per month. According to the complaint, so according to the complaint, no lease is made, the rent goes from pocket to pocket. The investigation, the procedure is ongoing, and the process, after the investigation is concluded, can be reported on these matters. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-20-178	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman István Happy, please.
u2017-02-20-179	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, the news has also appeared in the press that Érpatak Kft. The investigation into your case has also been initiated. I trust you will shed light on the end of this case. I think it is very important that all municipalities operate properly, including the better local authorities. It is known that this mayor [[Noise, interruptions in Jobbik's benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] With whom Jobbik has made an alliance, the mayor of Verpatak has also concluded a cooperation agreement with the Ozd municipality, and they are also trying to spread the Verpatian model to Ózd. I trust that the model of Verpatak Ózdon will not be what happened in Érpatak, according to the press, because it is very bad that people acquire people's wealth illegally and then try to renovate it with public money, and also with the employees of the local government. I trust the procedure will shed light on everything. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Fidesz.]]
u2017-02-20-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from Secretary of State Károly Kontra, please.
u2017-02-20-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In addition to the criminal proceedings that I have just mentioned and listed, there is also a procedure for the suspicion of defamation or defamation and forgery of authentic documents. Honourable Congressman, We trust that these cases will reveal the truth, and that if someone or someone violates the law, they will be held accountable in court. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Fidesz.]]
u2017-02-20-182	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, would you like to ask the Attorney General an immediate question, from a wiretap scandal, another prosecution scandal? It's an address. The Attorney General has appointed Mr Ervin Belovics, Deputy Attorney General, who I salute here in this Chamber, for his urgent public service. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] The congressman indicates that he accepts the Deputy Attorney General as a responder. So Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor, please.
u2017-02-20-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Deputy Attorney General! In March, a listening device was found in the conference room of the acting CEO of MTVA. The device detected itself by chance: after a heavy rain, the negotiator was soaked, the operators removed the cable canal cover from which the microphone fell. Shortly thereafter, it was discovered that Csaba Enyedi, Deputy Chief Executive Officer of MTVA and Imre Vas, Managing Director, also found listening devices, which are suitable for taking photos. [[Intercoms in the pro-government benches.]] Based on the security videos, the police identified Imre Vas without his permission. [[Defiance.]] It would have been impossible to get into the conference room. According to the investigative materials acquired by 168 Hours, on the spot, Vas told the police that the installation of the devices, I quote, served a higher purpose. And the police confirmed that Vas and Enyedi were questioned as suspects in the case. The latest development, Mr. Deputy Attorney General, is that, in some amazing way, the prosecutor's office has terminated the investigation because of the crime of obtaining illegal data, saying that there is a legal vacuum in the Hungarian legal system and that they have just realized that. So today, according to you, the Attorney General, the Prime Minister, or even the head of the secret services can be legally intercepted in any of their offices in Hungary, since you believe that only in the area of private residence is the Btk.-fact position, which is obviously not understood by some analogy and interpretation of law. [[18.20]] And you didn't understand it that way either, because in 2011, an indictment was filed in a case where such a device was installed in the bathroom of a private company, and, of course, at that time it was seen as a socially dangerous and pursueable crime - not today. I would ask you to tell me what the real reason for this completely nonsense interpretation of the law is. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-02-20-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Attorney General Ervin Belovich. Here you go.
u2017-02-20-185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, On this matter, I would like to inform the Member that the criminal offence of the illicit acquisition of data is carried out, inter alia, by those who observe or record what has happened in another person's home, other premises or related enclosed premises using technical means. The Code of Penalty includes the concept of housing and other premises in a number of legal facts, so that these concepts appear in the case of so-called situational legitimate protection or in the legal situation of private home invasion. The crime mentioned recently... - protects so-called domestic law, i.e. housing is only buildings for citizens' housing purposes. With regard to the so-called other premises, the caselaw is clear, namely that the other rooms fall within the conceptual scope exclusively of those parts of the building which are closely connected to the apartment. If the Criminal Code uses the same concept for several legal facts, the coherence of the law can only be ensured by assigning the same meaning to the same concept. Otherwise, the application of the law would become chaotic and compliance with the norm would be incomprehensible. The Metropolitan Attorney General therefore decided on the matter in accordance with the requirement of legality, given that the image and voice recording device was not placed in an apartment, but in the office and conference room of the company not belonging to it. I note, moreover, that the criminal proceedings in this case are still ongoing because of the crime of misuse of dual-use items. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-20-186	Thank you very much, Deputy Attorney General. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Tamás Harangozó. Here you go.
u2017-02-20-187	Thank you for the floor. The thing is, I think their interpretation of the law is a joke. I'll help you decipher. Do you recognize him? [[He's showing me a picture.]] Who in the picture is the suspect in this case? I'll help you. Here, alongside Viktor Orbán, this man is Paks' Fidesz politician, his former candidate, the mayor's candidate's campaign chief. He's one of the suspects in this case. So all we need to do now is answer to what kind of higher purpose this case is actually for, by the way, dealing with this type of thing. Because you can't explain to anyone, Mr. Attorney General, that in the context of such an interpretation of the law, you can have this whole country exposed to you writing down that you can listen to anyone anywhere today, and you can say it here in Parliament with an impeccable face. It's a joke! And if you have to look for legal interpretation, you'll find it in other regulations of secret service tools. My question is: how long will they humiliate themselves and how long will they humiliate their own colleagues to take action for obvious political reasons? Thank you.
u2017-02-20-188	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is for Deputy Attorney General. Here you go.
u2017-02-20-189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think, Congressman, that you should humiliate yourself when you refer to the analogy. You should know, as a sophomore law student should know, that the use of analogy in criminal law is prohibited. The Soviet Constitution of 1921 introduced the concept of analogy, its origin shows why Hungarian criminal law prohibits analogy. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-20-190	Thank you very much, Deputy Attorney General. With all due respect, I would like to ask Mr Tamás Harangozó to announce that at other times, if he wants to represent me, because I can only classify this as an unauthorized illustration, and I must inform the Speaker of the House. And I would also like to point out to the audience, so that the audience in the media, for information, that this gentleman of the name mentioned is not the same as our fellow Member in the Chamber. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Because what you are asking is not true in the Pharaon case, can you ever speak honestly? It's an address. Prime Minister István Simicskó appointed Minister for Defence to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the responding person or waits for Prime Minister to be present at the Parliament and asks for his answer personally.
u2017-02-20-191	Although I do not understand Prime Minister in handing out the topics, I accept, of course.
u2017-02-20-192	Thank you very much. Accordingly, the word belongs to Congressman Adam Mirkóczki. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-02-20-193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Your boss, if you will, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has always lied about Pharaon and has been running away from the facts. I would not now like to chronologically list the many Foolishness that either Prime Minister or Fidesz Group leader or other prominent Members have said that this Pharaon is not the Pharaon, this Pharaon is not the criminal that we are talking about, and it always turns out that Pharaon is exactly the Pharaon, and there is a good chance that everyone knew that he was an internationally wanted criminal. At the same time, the Hungarian government was not bothered by all this, they kept saying that we did not make a mistake, and then later they said that we may have made a mistake, but this is obviously an alien secret service game, which the Hungarian government was the victim of. In the meantime, it turned out that in Pharaon's visa application, and not exactly in his application, but in his explanatory statement, he clearly stated that he wanted to meet with Viktor Ghaith Pharaon Orbán, and that is why the consulate asks that the Hungarian embassy in Beirut give him a visa. Although Mr Pharaon died, the question marks remained naturally. They stayed to know exactly who he was, who he met in Hungary, what movements he made, what national security risks he raised, and exactly what business he had with Viktor Orbán or the members of Viktor Orbán's family, which can be read in a very wide spectrum in various press products and press organisations. And, of course, the biggest question mark is why there is such a gap in the Hungarian national security shield. What is the reason why an internationally wanted, money laundering, terrorist financing, and a large number of serious crimes go all the way to the Prime Minister's family? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-20-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Minister for Defence István Simicskó. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-02-20-195	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Let me begin by saying that the Prime Minister has not lied, I must reject your claim. He has always said the same thing, and we have heard the answers to questions here several times, and we have always consistently said the following on the part of the government. Mr Pharaon's visa application has been uploaded to the Schengen system, no Member State has raised any objections and no problem has been identified, not even by Interpol. That is, Ghaith Pharaon could have traveled to any Schengen Member State at the time in question. According to my information, in the case of Mr Pharaon's visa application, the KKM, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, has already made public the conditions under which he has applied for a visa, and Parliamentary Members have been given access to the preparatory materials. Obviously, as you said, not so long ago in connection with the gentleman who died in Beirut, Lebanon, I believe that these questions have become completely unreasonable. I see that what we have done on the basis of our statements so far is, of course, clear, as regards the former activities of the gentleman in Hungary, it is clear that he has complied with the Hungarian laws and that he has not hidden any national security risks to Hungary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-20-196	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder will be addressed to Congressman Adam Mirkóczki. Here you go, Congressman. [[18.30]]
u2017-02-20-197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, They're not being honest right now. I have to say that if you, as Minister of Defence, say and say, either by order of Viktor Orbán or by order of someone else, that a man who is accused of money laundering and terrorist financing in many countries at international level in many places does not pose a national security risk to Hungary, it is very difficult to classify that. At the same time, I would also like to say that if you are so bold, then let us publish and publish everything, not only the pre-selected details regarding your visa application, but also all the documents of the consular information system where you are black and white, that this person will be initiated to grant a visa in Hungary to meet Viktor Orbán, and then we will publish his business activities in Hungary, his real estate purchases and those partners. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] who helped him with his activities. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-20-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-02-20-199	Thank you very much. I think it's the right thing - unfortunately we all get caught up in destiny - to look at the personality of the deceased with due respect for a deceased person and to look into it, of course, as an opportunity, obviously Jobbik has a record of his own, and to say what he says on the basis of this, he can do anything. But one thing is certain, I can continue to say that if the person concerned, who is no longer alive, had been in the Interpol register or in the register of any other Schengen system in the European Union, this would have made it clear what was going on. However, he has visited the European Union on several occasions, he could have been anywhere, but for some reason he has not been anywhere at risk of national security, and so he has not been, as a matter of fact, to us. So Hungary was not exposed to national security by his activities, his personality. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-20-200	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Member István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, the notary of the Parliament, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title of the Olympics. Prime Minister István Simicskó appointed Minister for Defence to respond to his urgent public mission. [[For signal:]] I do not have to continue to say the usual text at this time, because the Member indicates that he accepts Mr István Simicskó, Minister of Defence, as a reply, and that is why Mr István Ikotity, notary of the Parliament, should be the subject of the vote. Here you go.
u2017-02-20-201	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, I accept you as a responder, but I obviously know that, and you know that what we're going to talk about, the Olympics are now being run away from the government to answer them. I don't want that answer slipping for weeks, which is why I'm putting it on. The government is trying to pretend that it has nothing to do with the Olympic competition in Budapest. I'm sure you've all heard that more than 260 thousand people in Budapest have indicated that they don't want the government to decide on such a particular issue without asking their opinion. This 266 thousand signatures are just 70 thousand less, which the current governing parties have delivered during their 2008 referendum initiative, when they collected not only in Budapest but throughout the country. So this is a will that neither the government nor the capital can ignore. You're pretending that the government had nothing to do with this proposal, and you're pinning it on the mayor in a very vertebrate way. The government would have had the right and duty to initiate a referendum before the application was submitted. It was the government's decision not to ask people if they wanted an Olympics in Budapest, the government's decision was to start throwing money into the Olympics without a referendum. By the end of 2016, the government's proud conduct had thrown out serious billions, and by the end of 2016 it had already exceeded the amount that could have been intended to be prepared in total. We think the government made a mistake trying to throw an Olympics behind people's backs. Please, Minister, answer: when and who exactly decided that the government would not initiate a referendum on the Olympics? Can you tell me exactly how many forints have been spent on the Olympic competition so far? How much money could we have saved? And speaking of which, after their failure, doesn't the government think that another, not supported by humans, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We should also ask people about a thousand billion dollars of money, and this is the referendum on Paks, which we would like you to launch. Thank you in advance for your answers.
u2017-02-20-202	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister for Defence István Simicskó. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-02-20-203	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Honourable Congressman, I spend my fifth term in the Hungarian Parliament, and I've experienced a lot of things, I've met a lot of people, and I think we are when we see that there are people who see the backhand of cases, of important cases, and there are people who see the color. We're one of those people who sees the color. So obviously you can look for a factor in everything that turns, turns, tilts, and approaches large and noble national issues from a negative side. I think Hungary is facing a historic opportunity, and I may even say so at the moment. The Metropolitan Assembly decided that, right, cities are competing for the Olympics. In June 2015, in order to prevent this, the General Assembly of the Hungarian Olympic Committee voted unanimously in favour of the Olympics to apply for Budapest. The Metropolitan Assembly voted for the submission of the tender with a majority of 93 percent, with a single gender and one abstention for the 24th Olympics. In addition, it was unanimously supported by the elected representatives of the Metropolitan Assembly, the Joint Speaker, Jobbik, MSZP, Fidesz and KDNP, and on 6 July 2015, more than 80 percent of the Parliament gave their positive support to the application. Obviously, when you ask whose Olympics this is, this is the Hungarian Olympics. In this regard, it does not matter who, in what colours, with what party standing they are. I think it's a great opportunity. It is a great opportunity because Agenda 2020, which allowed cities of this magnitude to apply, such as Budapest, opened up the opportunity and gave us all a historical chance. You are a sportsman, you know exactly what sports mean for Hungarians. This is a common language that we all speak and understand, so it would be a realistic, reasonable and economical enterprise for Hungary. I'm sorry that there are people who see that differently, and of course we do that. I personally continue to support the right to organise the Olympics, and I hope that there are as many of us as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-20-204	Thank you very much, Minister. In return, I give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity, the notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2017-02-20-205	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, What does your government or even Fidesz do when you think you're facing a national case? He asks people, proclaims a referendum, launches a national consultation, as they say. I think that this is a distinguishing feature of what you call national affairs in many cases, and it is said aloud about it. Why didn't Fidesz do this? Why didn't the government do this by asking people if they wanted an Olympics in Budapest in 2024? We have no objection to the Olympics, we love sport very much, we think it would be great if Hungary could once settle an Olympics, we also see the economic burden that this has, what it does to the country exactly. My question, Minister, is again, I suppose, who decided not to initiate a referendum on this issue, since you are used to starting a referendum on all national matters; and the cost you have paid for this so far. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-02-20-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. In return, a one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-02-20-207	Thank you very much. In my view, before such a historic opportunity, I must say that it is almost obvious that it is a national matter, because we have not yet managed to organise an Olympics. We are among the first ten great nations, who can do this calmly because of their success, and, I repeat, Agenda 2020 gives us the chance to apply intelligently. It is sad that such a question becomes a party political issue, which is a national matter, but it has become a party political issue, it is sad. I think we should show some unity. How much has been planned and implemented so far, I could say that in the past period, since 2010, Member, we have hosted some 30-40 world competitions a year: European Championships, World Cups and World Cups. The facilities that would otherwise be built for the settlement of an Olympics, let's say 70-80 percent, the rest we should just add a little bit more, and then we could arrange a very serious Olympics that could significantly increase our national pride, regardless of our party standing. That's my chance. I'm sorry things got so far. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We hope that the situation is not hopeless yet. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[18.40]]
u2017-02-20-208	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Attorney General an immediate question:. Fidesz politician is above the law? It's an address. The Attorney General has appointed Mr. Ervin Belovics Deputy Attorney General in response to an urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the responding person or waits for the Attorney General to be present and asks for the answer personally.
u2017-02-20-209	I'd like to ask the Attorney General how the names of the Fidesz politicians could have stayed out of the indictment on the KSE case, and they didn't interrogate them, so I'd like to wait. Thank you.
u2017-02-20-210	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to inform you and this House that the Attorney General must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zoltán Gőgös, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. Why do the payments of EU and national aid stand? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Zsolt Kis as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. The congressman tells me that he accepts the person who is responding. It is for Congressman Zoltán Haughty to take the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-02-20-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, There is a relatively well-functioning system, or should I say, there was a relatively well-functioning system in Hungary, which is the payment of direct subsidies. For years, farmers have had access to their money on time. Last year, although there was some confusion, there may have been some technical explanation for this, since there was a whole new system to switch to, new elements were included in these aid applications, which the managing authority and the enforcement authority obviously had to prepare for first. Now, everyone would have thought, after paying advances, that this system would continue to work flexibly, and according to previous practice, by about mid-February, the potential subsidies were 70-80, but there were years when 90 percent of them came to producers. There are systems for this, obviously banking systems, which can be about exactly what time these farmers can get access to the funds. I've been getting a lot of requests over the last few weeks that this payment is practically not working. They're interested in MVH, or now I'm not telling MVH, but his successor, and they say they're usually beyond the controls, so there's very few where there's still debate. Obviously, this system can go until June, we know exactly, but that wasn't the drill. The problem now is that there is a lack of these resources, and many companies are in a position to run into a dangerous environment, because they wanted - or very many of them, and not only they, but also obviously producers - to settle their debts, and for years these funds have been included in the preparation for spring work. So, Secretary of State, I don't know what's making this system squeaky, maybe it wasn't meaningful after all, but I want an answer to what's going on here or what they're doing. I understand all payments started this week, but it's still not the pace farmers expect. Please answer that.
u2017-02-20-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I have already said, will be given by Secretary of State, Miklós Kis. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-02-20-213	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, As you are well aware, it was one of the changes in 2016 that the Office for Agriculture and Rural Development was terminated by succession. Now I don't want to open a debate about whether this was a well-functioning office. I think that, in recent years, it has been more critical, especially when farmers have been asked. However, the most important thing is that, of course, someone has to do the task, and it has been partly carried out by the Hungarian Treasury and partly by the county government offices. What is very important, obviously, when such a payment is made, is that at least one conditional accreditation of this organisation has been published. I report, from 27 December to 27 December, that the State Treasury is accredited, and until the end of the year, and until 15 October, the final accreditation has been granted. I would not dare to say that there is a problem with payments, because if I am to say quite accurate statistical numbers, then in the logic that Mr President has mentioned, here is the change. Instead of January-February 2017, we almost fully advanced the payments in 2016, since between 1 November 2016 and 31 December 2016 HUF 223 billion was paid. In comparison, it was HUF 160 billion in 2015 and, overall, the total amount that we indicated as a prognosis for 2016 was over-achieved by the Treasury by more than HUF 80 billion. In the past periods, it was not typical that payments would have been very high during the January period either. It was usually paid in February and March in most cases. That's the way it is right now. Payments have been started this week, so far, it is only worth HUF 6 billion, but area payments, greening payments are still available, and what may be good news, I will tell you in the next minute. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-20-214	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Gőgös for a moment. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-02-20-215	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The comparison of the year 15-16 is limping because there were very, very many problems with the start of the greenings in 15 and this caused the lower payment at the time. However, I would also like to say that I asked you on a written question about the reason for the downsizing of the MVH, and I think that this is the basic cause of the confusion. You've given me the answer that you're going to make quality exchanges. Secretary of State, I don't think it's a quality exchange if you had a branch where you had a preschool secretary instead of a three-graduate agricultural engineer. I think the problem is that the nearly 100 people who have escaped the system are missing, obviously when there are controls and implementations. All I can say is that it's okay that there are deadlines here that can be legally maintained, but producers wouldn't have the problems if everything were okay. I'm encouraging you to get through this mess, because I think it's really chaotic right now. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-02-20-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a moment, Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2017-02-20-217	I would not describe the situation of the MVH or the successor Treasury organization as a chaotic condition, even because you referred to layoffs, I would like to indicate that certain personal changes have occurred in government offices. If there had been a problem with the downsizing, there would have been no way, for example, at the government office, to process claims for compensation much earlier, and what was good news in my previous two-minute speech, the good news is that this compensation of about HUF 4-5 billion, which the MVH usually paid in March, we can now do in February. So simply, the downsizing really had some quality excuses and problems, but this did not affect the work done, and the payments will continue to go smoothly - we trust - even faster than before. Thank you very much. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Let it be so! Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-02-20-218	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. On a case-by-case basis, Deputy Group Leader Gábor Staudt asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2017-02-20-219	Thank you very much. Given that Mr. Group Leader is coming from us and is at the board meeting, we would like to ask for a five-minute recess so that we can signal him.
u2017-02-20-220	Thank you. I'm ordering a five-minute break. [[It's a short break.]] [[18.50]] If the House does not object, since Mr János Volner has arrived from the extraordinary meeting of the House Committee, we would not be able to take the five-minute break. Of course, I will also ask the Minister whether he will object to this. [[On Dr. István Simicskó's signal:]] The Minister doesn't object. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Congressman János Volner, representative of Jobbik, leader of the Jobbik Group, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what should the Government do in order to catch up on the wages of the working Hungarian people? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr István Simicskó Minister for Defence to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Head of the Group whether he accepts the person of the responding party or waits for the Prime Minister to be present in Parliament and asks him personally for an answer.
u2017-02-20-221	First of all, I'd like to apologize for the delay. I took part in the board meeting.
u2017-02-20-222	Well, you're welcome. I know you were on an extraordinary board meeting.
u2017-02-20-223	I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister from the other side.
u2017-02-20-224	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, this concludes the immediate questions. Dear Parliament, We now have a motion to negotiate a series of requests for inclusion. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the T/12895. on the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary. Proposal for inclusion in a series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. First, I will give the floor to the rapporteur, in a five-minute time frame - I respectfully ask who will be the representative of the rapporteur, and I would like to press a button to sign in in in such a case. [[It's happening.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Gábor Staudt, Deputy Group Leader, has the floor.
u2017-02-20-225	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The proposal before us was nothing more than the proposal for the amendment of the basic law that Viktor Orbán had originally tabled before the final vote, supplemented by a sentence, and then had to undergo a number of amendments in order to reach a final vote before the House in an appropriate manner, but unfortunately, the main thing, the whole solution, could not be achieved by this proposal, since it would only partially deal with the problem that arose in Hungary with the immigration situation, and would only partially incorporate into the Fundamental Law the solutions that all Hungarian citizens expected and, by the way, the people formulated in the referendum. It has not been possible to include the fact that there is no possibility of admission for consideration and, in particular, the right of establishment cannot be granted to foreign nationals. This would have been important because, as we have seen, the construction of the settlement policy went beyond the economic structure and could be purchased by persons who were subsequently found, for example, convicted criminals who transferred for six months, and thus were able to prove their impunity and criminal record with resident status. Well, if such individuals could have obtained a right of establishment, then the question arises why terrorists could not have done the same, and if the filter number four, which we have heard so many times in this House, could have been easily played by virtually convicted criminals, we can say that it does not understand anything. This is also the reason why the opinion or the claim made by the Fidesz-KDNP Members that this would be an economic issue - I asked the question at the committee meeting and they could not answer it in substance, otherwise this issue has been raised several times - because if the European Commission had bought the settlement policy for 1300 asylum seekers in that quota, they could have come in without further ado. Because that is the case, and it would have been a good deal, since the Commission would have received the money back at four times the interest rate at the end of the five-year term, and it is not about failing these amounts. So, if this becomes possible and, moreover, they open an office in Erbíl, when the Islamic State is falling apart, its leaders move millions of dollars, so to speak, offering that they just have to walk in and buy the bonds. In a situation like this, we presented our proposal in mid-November, which would have completed the protection and delayed the time, and the proposal was not even presented to the Justice Committee until mid-December. Then the break started, so it was only in February that the Judicial Committee could decide at all, and there the Fidesz-KDNP representatives rejected this proposal. They refused to include me in a series of subjects, which means that you believe that this issue has been resolved. They also referred to the decision of the Constitutional Court, with which there is only one problem: it is very nice and very good, it does not have any basic legal references, and it refers to the basic law and the practice of the Constitutional Court of other EU countries, but if the Hungarian Constitutional Court wants to present a protection that can be used even in Brussels, then the rules of the Hungarian Fundamental Law should be based on it, and this amendment would be necessary. This does not mean that the problem will be solved, this does not mean that this would be a 100% solution, because in the EU it would still have to be fought to ensure that this protection is effective against any EU decision, but it would certainly be a better, stronger instrument in the hands of the government when it goes through these negotiations. So we think that this is not just an offshore business, which has already made nearly half a billion dollars in profits according to the press, that goes beyond that, although that would be enough to wipe out, and you're talking about suspension at the end of March. We do not know whether it will be so or not, but it will not be included in the Fundamental Law, and it will not be imposed in such a way as to create a ban; it will be included in the Fundamental Law, and then anyone, any government, will be able to trace it back in the future, and even if it is simply suspended, it does not need to be traced back to the fact that the laws do not need to be amended, and it simply needs to be resumed. This is what is unacceptable, both economically and, more importantly, in terms of security policy. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-20-226	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. I'll ask the factions if anyone wants to take the opportunity. [[For signal:]] I am speaking to Mr Vas Imre of the Fidesz Group in a two-minute timeframe.
u2017-02-20-227	Thank you very much for the floor. Jobbik voted against this amendment to the Fundamental Law last fall [[Adam Mirkóczki: Not this!]] So we see that the problem was actually caused by Jobbik. You obviously have some consciences about the fact that you voted off an amendment to the basic law, which is subject to an agreement, and you were not interested in the safety of the Hungarian people. You can see, I would add, that you have not been able to put the sentence correctly, that this amendment to the basic law serves no other purpose for you than to try to make it seem that you are interested in the fate of the Hungarian people. Unfortunately, last autumn we experienced that you were not interested in the fate of the Hungarian people, the amendments were voted there, agreed with the bill, but did not bother to support the amendment of the basic law at least two in the final vote. So you have to account for the fact that you didn't support the amendment to the basic law. To ask, then, for the same series of amendments to the basic law to be included, I think it is an extremely strange point. So for this reason, we do not support it, since it is not about a proper conduct, the inclusion of the fundamental law amendment in the series of subjects. Thank you for listening.
u2017-02-20-228	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr György Szilágyi is next from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-02-20-229	Dear colleague Imre Vas, That's not what we voted for. You vote for it. So the solution that would give the country the greatest possible protection when it is very simple - and it can be explained to you in any way: neither poor nor rich migrants should come into the country, that is what we have said, that is what we hold, and this is also included at the moment in the amendment of the basic law. You are constantly trying to influence people with the threat of migration, you are campaigning for a billion dollars on this, but when you really need to protect the country, then, as it seems, corruption is more important for you, dirty money is more important. Because there's nothing more about the settlement policy than the corruption, the dirty money you put in your pockets. This is nothing more than what Szilárd Kiss said today: what Szilárd Kiss did small-time, that he began to hustle with the visa, that he issued four thousand visas to the Schengen area, that you suddenly noticed, and that Antal Rogán made it big. [[19.00]] They've raised corruption to legal force, supported it with the law, given huge money to offshore companies, and now we're talking about 1671 people who don't have the money they've paid. Do you know how much that is? They can't account for 140 billion for the settlement bonds now. What do we say? Let's get the settlement bonds out and cut this loophole, be in the Fundamental Law so no one can ever sell their country for money. Because you, by sticking to the settlement policy, are selling your own country for money, even to terrorists, and risking the safety of Hungarian people and risking the security of Hungary. So I cannot believe that this is not clear to you, and you know it, and you may not be in this business, but you are covering for those fellow Members, the ministers who fill their pockets with it. Shame on you! [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-20-230	Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congressman Gábor Staudt as his representative... [[For signal:]] There is no possibility for Adam Mirkóczki, one of a faction. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: But the closing...]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry. You're the only one who set it up. I thought you'd answer. This was my fault, and I apologize. Thus, on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Adam Mirkóczki will respond. Here you go.
u2017-02-20-231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask Imre Vas if he remembers when Brussels first raised the draft quota for Hungary for 1,500 people. And do you remember how not only we, but also you, Viktor Orbán and every member of the government, protested at the time against the idea, the proposal, and how many, 1100 migrants? I would like to add this as an addition: do you know, by the way, exactly how many third-country people have been granted a residence permit in Hungary in the course of the merger between the buyers of the settlement bonds and their respective families, without knowing their goals and background? [[István Szilárd Németh: But that is not true, you know that!]] Nearly 8,000. I say to my colleague, Szilárd Németh, that a few weeks ago... [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: True, Szilárd! István Szilárd Németh: You are also on the committee in which I am. And they keep me informed... the president's ringing the bell.]] I'll recommend to Szilárd Németh that you ask in the next NSA whether I'm telling the truth or not. A few weeks ago, we were with some of my fellow Members at the Immigration and Asylum Office, who, in any case, gave very detailed information on the current situation in a fair manner. Nearly 8,000 people were granted residence permits through settlement bonds in Hungary. By the way, these people have no idea whether they represent a risk or not. They claim they're just one of the four filters, and the only thing that really goes through them is that they've paid the money, so they can get, or not. Adding that people - and perhaps Szilárd Németh can confirm this - who are going through national security screening, depending on whether they can pose any risk or not, what needs to be done, what environmental studies are being carried out, and the rest of you seriously believe that this can be done for people and persons from third countries? It can't be done. Jobbik's proposal serves the purpose of preventing them from coming for money in such a security policy situation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-20-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. I would like to thank you for your cooperation so far and to give the chair to Vice-President Tamás Sneider. Thank you very much. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]]
u2017-02-20-233	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. The Commission's reports on the abolition of certain charges and charges relating to administrative administration and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow up. The government referral is T/13091. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Imre Vas, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-02-20-234	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform the Parliament that at its meeting on 15 February 2017 the Legislative Committee discussed the termination of certain charges and charges relating to administrative administration T/13091. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were adopted unanimously by 26 votes in favour, with zero abstentions and zero abstentions. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the amendments tabled by the Judicial Committee on the background, which mainly contain technical clarifications. I also draw the attention of my fellow Members to a substantive amendment in the legislative committee's amendment proposal. One point of the proposal clarifies that the procedure for correcting the family name will be duty-free after the entry into force of the proposal. The problem is that Act I of 2010 on the Civil Registration Procedure allows for a procedure for the correction of the family name due to mandatory use of the hyphen that entered into force on 1 January 1953 and the abolition of its distinguishing letter and the provisions relating to the name of the reptile previously registered in the register to be settled. Therefore, in the future these corrections do not entail any obligation to pay taxes or to pay fees. Ladies and gentlemen, In this bill, the government proposes to terminate the fee for some 20 official procedures. If this is accepted, administration in some areas of life will become cheaper for specific social groups or, where appropriate, for all customers. I would ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-20-235	I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Zoltán Kovács, if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes.
u2017-02-20-236	Mr President, Dear House, The government supports the proposal.
u2017-02-20-237	Thank you. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is therefore up to the Members to take part in the time frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. I'm asking if anyone would like to comment on the proposal. [[There's no signal.]] Since I do not see a candidate, the debate is closed. I don't know if Zoltán Kovács would like to comment on the rapporteur's part. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Yes, very briefly.]] Here's your word.
u2017-02-20-238	Mr President, Dear House, Very briefly, because there was consensus before this House, so I would like to thank all the factions for their support, both at the committee meeting and at the Parliament. Another element of the bureaucratic government programme will be passed by tomorrow's vote. The essence of this is that we asked citizens both in 2015 and 2016, which awards concern a large social group, are present in the public administration in important matters, and it would be necessary to eliminate or reduce them. In the first case, 400,000, and in the second round, 280,000 responses were received. That's how we put the bill together. In the latter, we have proposed the abolition of some 20 administrative service charges or charges. It has not just been said, but I would like to draw the House's attention to the fact that, with the first bill, about HUF 12 billion remain in the pockets of citizens and businesses, and in the second case, some HUF 2 to 2.5 billion remain in the pockets of citizens and businesses. Dear Parliament, Without a detailed list of the following exemptions, I will just mention that various target groups have been surveyed by the government as a result of these measures, such as those over 65 years of age, minors, those requiring the benefit of family home creation, landowners and, as has just been said, applicants for the procedure for correcting the family name. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like your votes to support the Government referral, as there has been a consensus in this so far. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[19.10]]
u2017-02-20-239	Thank you. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend individual laws in connection with the declaration of a public holiday on Friday until closure. Presentation by representatives of Semjén Zsolt, Szászfalvi László, Balog Zoltán, Varga Mihály, Németh Szilárd István and Mátrai Márta T/12969. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Zoltán Balog, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2017-02-20-240	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the opportunity to make this bill, this amendment of the law, a public holiday day for Friday before Easter, which we call "grand Friday" in the Christian culture circle. We ask the Parliament to make this day a public holiday this year - there is a legal possibility - so it can be a public holiday on 14 April 2017 if Parliament supports this amendment. In this case, the things that are good when they meet in life, and the values and interests, come together. We believe - I speak for all the authors here - that in terms of both values and interests, this measure is good for Hungary, it is good for Hungary's citizens, and it is especially good for Hungarian families, and it is also in their interest. So it's a gain for everyone, no matter how he thinks about himself and the world in which he lives on a global scale. To us, if we approach from values, the message of this possibility is that this can be an important step in restoring the Christian identity of the country, the nation, and it could be said that an important debt of the last 25 years of system change that we will repay is an important debt. The Christian message of this day, Grand Friday, is that without sacrifice there is no festival, no resurrection without death, no Easter without Friday. While we are talking about these values as we approach them, we do not think that anyone should or should be forced to do so. However, we are sure that it is in the interest of every family in terms of interests to have another day of rest, that the three-day holiday for Easter Sunday, Easter Monday and Saturday - which, of course, according to Saturday's working schedule or Saturday's schedule in the calendar - will be extended to include families for a four-day period in Hungarian regulations. So, if you look at the interests, it is once again linked to values, as it is also a cultural surplus for the quality of life in spending the family's free time. If we think, of course, that we cannot and do not want to ignore the economic aspects of the economy in Hungary, then we can say that although this proposal - and this is worth remembering - was presented years ago by a Christian Democrat representative, László Varga, in the previous term, we see his time coming, so it is symbolic that Minister for Economic Affairs Mihály Varga is among the authors; we have just seen his time to establish the foundations with which we can safely take such an extra day off. Indeed, we are in an economic age, economic aspects cannot be ignored, but I would point out that if we look around the country - and this is also shown by the numbers of domestic tourism - we can see that there is little quality resting place in Hungary during long weekends, especially during school holidays, because the booking of tourist accommodations is so large. Thank God, for many families - we heard a song about this from the Prime Minister today at noon - it is now an opening opportunity to spend such long weekends together in tourist accommodations. So we can say that even the economic loss is replaced, in fact, by the fact that for Hungarian tourism and catering, purchasing power can appear even more intensively. This means, of course, that workers get a regular wage on a public holiday, that they receive a leave of absence fee, so that workers' wages do not decrease despite a decrease in working time and an increase in leisure time, and that wages will increase if the working day is lost. We trust that we see the figures that the country's competitiveness will not be undermined by this proposal, on the contrary: with more time to regenerate, the quality of the workforce can be improved even more. And if we look at our request for a change of regulation and our proposal as to how many national holidays in Hungary today are either a public holiday or even a public holiday, then it is worth looking around the house to see how the number of holidays in countries that are more successful or less successful than we are, or in countries that are around the same weight as us, is turning out. With this great Friday, if the House supports this proposal, it will be 11 holidays in Hungary instead of 10 public holidays - which may fall on weekdays - on 1 January, 15 March, Easter Monday, 1 May, Whitsun Monday, 20 August, 23 October, 1 November, 25 December and 26 December. Friday is a celebration in 14 countries in Europe, now Hungary joins these countries. To compare some figures that economic success does not necessarily depend on the number of public holidays: in Germany, there are 17 public holidays, in Bulgaria, 16, Slovakia, 15, Croatia 14, Austria, the Czech Republic and Poland, 13, Denmark, France and Belgium, 12 of these days. We can see - there are different groups of countries here - that more or less public holidays are not necessarily the key to economic success. When we presented this proposal to the National Economic and Social Council to discuss this at the forum of interest reconciliation, we could argue with employers that the tax cuts, the regulations that have served the benefit of the Hungarian economy and increased its performance in the past, are pushing much more into the debate than this public holiday, which, of course, with certain segments of the economy can cause production losses. All I can tell you is that all the government can do is declare one day a public holiday. What will become of this will depend on the people, families, communities who will use this day, will live with it. If it's gonna be a holiday, it's up to those who want to celebrate. And it has to be said that in recent decades - indeed, this period goes back to the previous system - there have always been people who have been on a holiday, regardless of whether it was a public holiday or not. I, myself, was trained as a Turner at the Diósgyőr Machine Factory in 1977 so that I could celebrate this day at home. There were such understanding employers then, and I trust that there will be those who will support it now. So we are going to give a public holiday, a celebration for citizens and civil communities, a day for church communities. And while trade union considerations are at stake here, let me say a little ironically that, of course, for churches and church servants, this day has always been, and will remain, an intense working day, because they are celebrating with work. [[19.20]] We know that one day it will not solve all the problems in the country and it will not necessarily make our lives right, but I am sure that it will improve quality of life, and this day can do much to make things go in the right direction in our economic lives, in our personal lives and in our community life. Thank you for listening to me, to those who listened. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-20-241	Thank you. I'll ask you on behalf of the government, Secretary of State Miklós Soltész wishes to comment. [[Miklós Soltész: Yes.]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-02-20-242	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Dear rapporteur, Dear Parliament, Mr. President. Indeed, the amendment on the declaration of Great Friday as a public holiday is, if I may say so, related to the Christian roots and Christian foundations of Hungary. It is a worthy celebration and preparation of a celebration that runs from the agony, death, and funeral of Christ within Christendom to Easter Sunday, to the resurrection, from Friday to Easter Sunday. We are one of the countries where, even if not everyone is a believer, not everyone is a practicing believer, but in the average of people, it is shown - for example, on various appearances, on celebration circles, on the 1 percent offerings to the churches - that Christianity is indeed the strongest religion through its various denominations. That is why this proposal is very important, which is worth considering not only but also accepting. But I would add that this is obviously not only important to believers. Usually, a holiday when families are together can spend their time together, there is also a result for families, and it also has a positive impact on society in terms of strengthening families and communities. In addition, we are talking about a day, Friday, when most of the parents are taking leave anyway, because they are home with their child and are preparing for Easter in some way. And if we confirm all this with a church holiday, a public holiday, then we will certainly help these families to thrive and strengthen further. And I must add to what Mr Minister said as rapporteur that there is an economic basis for this. When a Christian Democratic MEP, former Reformed Bishop László Varga, presented this proposal a few years ago, there was no economic fund at this level. And here are some facts worth noting. In 2010, the government debt-to-GDP ratio was 80.5 percent, now 74 percent. It is also a fact that 700,000 more people work in Hungary today than in 2010; this means nearly 4.4 million people. And after we have the economic fund, we have the opportunity to see what we have seen as a result of the development of the last few years in relation to the help of people living and working in Hungary, and we believe that people who deserve this progress, this GDP rise, and the positive change that has taken place in the economy have created, helped us to negotiate such a proposal and then to accept it together. This is also linked to what you said, Minister, that throughout the European Union, they have many, many countries or many more days off from work, or, at least as important, they have declared Grandpa a holiday in the past. Those with at least as many or more days off from countries of similar size and having about the same economy: Austria, Slovakia, Latvia, Slovenia, Czech Republic, Sweden, Finland. So I wasn't talking about the larger countries. It is important that they have 11 or more days off, and it must be acknowledged that their economy has not yet collapsed. Great Friday is still a public holiday in Denmark, Germany, Estonia, Greece, Slovakia and more than a dozen countries. About two weeks ago, the National Economic and Social Council discussed this issue. The opinions of the six sides, employers, workers, civil and ecclesiastical organisations, representatives of art and science, were interesting. This proposal was voted and supported in 5:1. I guess they can easily figure out who didn't support it. Well, the employers. Their argument, however, was interesting. Too many positives could not be brought up in their reasoning, it was clear that some people were only interested in economic benefits, and could not balance in themselves that a public holiday that we would now decide on could be a positive step forward for the benefit of society, the whole community, and, as I mentioned, for the benefit of the family, and, of course, for the benefit of the religious people, as a result of which the economy might perform even better in some respects. In that sense, employers' attitudes were strange. I must stress once again that the representatives of the workers, the civil side, the church side, the art side and the scientific side unanimously supported this proposal. To conclude, Honourable Parliament, Honourable Speakers, the proposal is good for the country, good for the people, a proposal on a value basis, which is very important, which is why the government supports it. Once again, I thank the rapporteurs very much and I hope that the Parliament will support this proposal in a uniform manner. Mr President, thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-20-243	Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mátrai Márta, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-02-20-244	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The impression of the man of our time that he could no longer compete with the rushing time, with the changing world, yet the situation did not change at the dawn of the third Christian millennium. From the point of view of faith, we are in the same place as at the dawn of the first Easter. The situation hasn't changed since then. The part of mankind that cannot believe in the resurrection is still sad about the highway of his life. In 2003, György Yakubinyi, Archbishop of Gyulafehérvár wrote in his Easter circular. Dear Parliament, The greatest celebration of Christendom is Easter. According to the teachings of the Christian churches, this festival is a celebration of the salvation of mankind, the outstanding day of which is Friday, the symbol of sacrifice and redemption. Friday is not simply the day of mourning, but the day of the Lord's crucifixion, redemption. In such a case, the believer quietly meditates, turns to himself, and draws new strength to his daily life. This can only be done by subduing in our thoughts, without bounds, and only by paying attention to it. This is not an ideological, ideal, or religious question, it is more than that, because there are moments when everyone has to take account of their own life's struggles, sufferings, hopes. This is an opportunity to perceive the value of everyday life, the success of a growing life, to see its own destiny in reality. That's what the holidays teach us. You have to give yourself a chance to make a reckoning. The civil government has already believed in the Christian values, the resulting spiritual and spiritual obligation. The Fundamental Law of Hungary in the National Creed recognizes the role of Christianity as a national preserver, we appreciate the different religious traditions of our country. We are all reminded that we are proud that our King Saint Stephen laid the Hungarian state on solid foundations a thousand years ago and made our country part of Christian Europe. It is natural that the government, in addition to the celebrations of the nation, also supports the famous festivals of faith that preserve our traditions. [[19.30]] It aims to create an opportunity for everyone to enjoy the holiday without any strings attached. As the State Secretary Zoltán Balog and Miklós Soltész said in his speech, I would also like to point out that the Reformed Minister László Varga, who was the representative of the KDNP Parliament between 2010 and 2014, initiated the expansion of the number of public holidays in his own motion on 9 May 2011. He was thinking about your grandpa, too, the next reason. It says:.Friday's celebration is a fundamental, outstanding day of the Christian culture that represents Europe's identity, which is one of the greatest festivals of all communities who claim to be Christian churches. On this day, the world's Christianity remembers the saving death of Jesus Christ. From the Christ trilogy of Mihály Munkácsy to the cross of the road everything reminds me of this day. It is therefore necessary to declare this day a public holiday, thus also giving the people of faith the opportunity to deepen, to worship, but there are those who object to all these holidays. Why increase the number of holidays? Of course, this question is always raised by doubters only when we want to strengthen our faith commitment. Because if you look back at the XVIII. For Europe of the century, we can see that there were 120-140 Sundays where not only religious but secular laws prohibited work. During the time of developing capitalism, the reduction in the number of days off and the number of holidays served to increase production, generate more revenue and gain more. This beneficial approach continued to go on with XX. In the century, all the way to the change of system. The Hungarian government believed that the public could live the holidays affecting life freely, without constraints, calmly, in a family circle, in love. In today's distorted, violent, performance-coercive world, real values are much harder to recognize. That's why holidays are important. Therefore, the civilian government should help people to discover the promise of a good, balanced life not only economically but also spiritually. The government, with its own special means, can only declare Grandpa a public holiday, but in order for this day to be a real holiday, we also need the help of the churches. If we look around in our neighbouring countries, as has been said here, we can see that Friday in Poland, Slovakia has been a holiday for a long time, in the Czech Republic it has become a holiday in 2016, but in many of Europe's countries, such as Germany, Austria, Italy and Portugal. Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, all I ask is that you support bill T/12969 amending individual laws in connection with the declaration of a public holiday on Friday. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-20-245	Thank you. I now give the floor to Nándor Gúr, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-02-20-246	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The declaration of Great Friday as a public holiday will also move other laws. Interestingly, it's linked to the changes to five laws, even those I didn't think I'd have before I met you. From the birth registration procedure, it practically covers several types of law through the procedure of individual enforcement and infringement investigations. But that's not the point. The point is, in fact, what the authors are pushing is that in Christian liturgy, great Friday is practically the Friday before Easter. Obviously, this is the day when people practicing religion are practically a little more withdrawn from their daily lives in a more profound state, and I can even say that perhaps keeping themselves away from the truth is meditating - and many things are about life. And they also have a kind of strict fasting. There are, obviously, long centuries of traditions that I consider important to respect. It is also important, as is the case with the religious practitioner, that tolerance towards non-religious people is equally important. In this regard, duality, as regards identity with each other, I think it must be maintained, regardless of whether someone is a religious practitioner or a non-religious practitioner. Viktor Orbán announced in November last year, if I remember correctly, that it would be a public holiday on Friday. That's not my problem. My problem isn't that it's gonna be a public holiday on Friday. It's how we get to turn grandpa into a public holiday. Technically, if you think about it, it's a direct revelation, which wasn't much of a revelation to the opinion of others. It's like Zoltán Balog said, and more people mentioned it. If we look around Europe today, look at our environment, our wider environment, then there are a lot of countries where there are, you might say, a lot more public holidays. There are some where there are fewer, but in the vast majority of countries where there are more. Even our big market partner, Germany, had more on a public holiday than Hungary last year. In this respect, it is very unquestionable and I do not want to question the validity of this public holiday. However, I would like to point out with a thought to the fact that I have tabled an amendment with my fellow Members today. I want you to keep your attention and support. My fellow Member, Zsolt Legény, will talk about this further. By becoming a public holiday on Friday, Hungary ranks among those where there will be 11 public holidays. Those who are less pleased with the declaration of Great Friday as a public holiday, I can say that they belong to the employer's circle. This has been said, and I'm sure you will remember it, on the one hand, on the other hand, on the grounds that the government's actions over the past period have put a lot of pressure on you. I've heard myself several times calling for a minimum wage or a guaranteed minimum wage. I would add that, of course, this is a big problem for employers because, in the last seven years, the government has been trying to raise the minimum wage or the guaranteed minimum wage to raise its gross and the burden of contributions, and has pushed employers against the wall. Obviously, there are thousands of burdens that employers face. This was the material part of the story from their perspective. But the other part, as I have heard, was that, obviously, in an economic sense, this was a loss, just as it was mentioned again. It is not possible to exact the scale of a public holiday in terms of economic loss, but it is possible to say an approximate magnitude. About one public holiday is estimated at 0.3-0.4 per cent of GDP. [[19.40]] This is only because such a decision, which will be made, is a decision of the order of hundred billion forints, of the order of one hundred thousand million forints. It's okay. That's not the problem. I think there's a problem with the way the decision is made, the way the decision is prepared. As I said, Viktor Orbán revealed it, and then practically the pursuit did not develop in the direction, so that a joint decision could be made with others, employers, in the midst of a multitude of arguments. Therefore, employers are not really in favour of deciding on this public holiday. In this regard, VOSZ has also been revealed in recent years. They said this decision puts a lot of pressure on their shoulders. In this respect, the National Association of Hungarian Industrialists has also been revealed, and many others who believe that, in addition to these cases, the moderate excuse is that people have not been asked either. There has not been a kind of national consultation on what people think that this is the day whose public holidays are most important to them, or the day - just as an example - that we have just tabled as an amending proposal, i.e. 24 December. I think that question would have been worth so much, that should have been consulted or could have been consulted. I am not speaking for the public holiday on Friday, but for the implementation of the 24th of December public holiday, for the implementation of the two together. I believe that, following a question raised in the context of a national consultation, at least a proportion of people are likely to support 24 December in this case for many reasons. But I am not going to go into the details because my fellow Member will certainly be more specific about this. I would also add that there are simple, practical questions raised by the case of the Great Friday. It's Sunday after Grand Friday and Monday after Easter. Sunday and Monday evidence, a practical example of how this creates a clear situation with regard to the retail trade - I do not want to go to the closing of the shop on Sundays. Saturday is not a public holiday, rest day, Friday is going to be a public holiday. How will the system work? Closes on Friday, opens on Saturday, closes again on Sundays and Mondays? Or is it four days? Or how, how do you think we can address simple, practical issues in this regard? Obviously, I'm talking about things that affect people's everyday lives. So this part is worth considering, considering, making so that it will not cause any particular confusion in people's daily lives. László Varga's previous initiative on the initiative of the Reformed Pastor, Bishop, in 2011. I tried to look into it, and I tried to see what kind of justifications were made at the time and now. Or also in 2011 regarding the declaration of 15 August as a public holiday day; it is also about the initiative of József Michl, our KDNP fellow Member, to declare the Day of the Lady of Great Happiness a public holiday day. So I tried to see what the arguments were, what the reasons were, the justifications. I didn't mind the proposals, but just as I didn't really see the support of this bill as widely as I did now, I also felt a lack of support for the proposals made at that time. But it's not about my lack of feeling. I'm just saying... [[Cutter Sebestyén interrupts.]] That's right, my fellow Member, but neither is yours. Neither do you, be completely calm, that's indifferent. The point of the matter is that in my opinion, if the head of the government or the government, the Prime Minister, decided for himself what he wished to make a public holiday day, his preparation could have been better drawn in this sense. It would have been worth it, I would have said it once again, perhaps to hold a national consultation, so that I could speak according to your words and your lines of action. My last thoughts are that on behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party we will act in support of the adoption of this bill. We act in a supportive way because we see that despite all our perceived or real, formulated and unspoken criticisms, the declaration of the public holidays on Friday is in the interest of the workers. Whether it is relaxation, recreation, or, in particular, the practice of the activities linked to the holiday, it is in the interests of the workers. We do not want to support a bill, a law that is against workers, but it is not like that, so let us say that we can count on our support in this respect. But I would like to ask one thing with great respect from my fellow members of the Government. If you have no longer conducted a national consultation as an example of the declaration of a public holiday on Friday, and you have not thought that it might be worth considering, in line with other religious holidays, whether there may be another day of similar importance, I would ask you with great respect, to take seriously the opposition's proposal for declaring a public holiday on 24 December. Let's handle this together. Because if declaring a public holiday is not a great burden for the economy and this country, I would like to report with a calm spirit and great respect that 24 December does not even cause so many problems from the perspective of the economy, neither in terms of organisation of work nor in other respects; let me add, for example, the efficiency and effectiveness aspects of work. Therefore, if a decision has been taken on this issue, once again with great respect, my fellow members of the Government, I would like to ask you to decide on a public holiday day in cooperation with the two days, Grandpa and 24 December. Mr President, fellow Members, Minister, that is all I wanted to say and I hope that you will listen to our words and that our amendments will be taken into account. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-20-247	Thank you. I now give the floor to László Szászfalvi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-02-20-248	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. The essence of the bill submitted is to make it a public holiday in Hungary as well, and to help Christian churches and Christian people celebrate this day in a worthy manner. Friday is one of the greatest and most important days and festivals for Christianity, on which Christian people remember the suffering, passion, and death of Jesus Christ. Dear House, The KDNP parliamentary group welcomes this proposal, and we are pleased that, after decades of debates, the government, the pro-government representatives, have taken on this important issue and this proposal has been presented to the House by the pro-government representatives. [[19.50]] In the last twenty years, I have been involved in committee and plenary debates here in Parliament, in which representatives of the respective pro-government and opposition groups have also conducted responsible dialogues on such matters, and we have continued on which days to declare public holidays. As we have heard, our former colleague László Varga has also made a concrete proposal, and I also remember a debate here in Parliament in which László Donáth himself, our MSZP colleague, specifically suggested that it be a public holiday. The KDNP faction supports the adoption of this bill, and we support it primarily because this proposal is intended to complete and implement religious freedom. Let me quote Article 6 (1) of the Fundamental Law, which is referred to by the authors: "Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. This right includes the freedom to choose or change religion or other beliefs and the freedom to exercise or teach religion or other beliefs by religious acts, rituals or other means, whether individually or in combination with others, publicly or in private life..Free religious practice, free religious practice is an integral part of human rights. Therefore, I think that we Members of Parliament must do everything in our power to ensure that the free exercise of religion can be achieved in the fullest possible way in Hungary. I believe that the proposed proposal seeks to achieve this constitutional objective, the objective set out in our Fundamental Law, which I have just quoted. Secondly, we also support this proposal because this proposal is in the interests of Hungarian families, and let me say that it is also in the interests of Hungarian workers. I was expecting my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, although he quoted his concerns about employers, but there were not many approaches to the workers' side; he may have talked about it in some semi-phrases, but he was not as pronounced as concern for employers. KDNP considers the proposal to be very important in this respect, as I believe that in recent years there have been a number of measures on the part of the government, on the part of Parliament, Parliament, which served the Hungarian families, there have been significant progress in the interests of Hungarian families. I think we can safely say that Hungary has become a family-friendly country. This proposed law, I think, is pointing in this direction, and it wants to fulfill or strengthen this reality so that Hungary can truly become a family-friendly country, and this proposal, and all the laws, all the laws, serve the health of Hungarian families, serve the Hungarian family values, serve the strengthening, development and expansion of Hungarian families. In the same sense, I believe that this proposal is also in the interests of Hungarian workers, and many of these arguments have already been made here before me. I think that we also need to see these here in Parliament, when we will make the decision on this proposal that has been tabled. I think that it is also in the interests of Hungarian workers if we can increase the number of public holidays by one day. Thirdly, we support this proposal because we believe - and we have heard a number of arguments for this too - that this proposal, the adoption of this proposal, the declaration of Great Friday as a public holiday, of course affects non-religious people, non-religious families, while at the same time strengthening Hungarian tourism and strengthening Hungarian domestic tourism in particular, can strengthen Hungarian economic growth. Although, of course, in terms of economic interests and as a result of this decision, a number of arguments have to be considered, such as the views of employers, or many concerns have to be considered naturally, but I think that the adoption of this bill can certainly bring more to Hungarian workers, Hungarian families and the Hungarian economy. So it can mean added value, a quality surplus for Hungarian families and the Hungarian economy, for domestic tourism, which I think should be taken into account when making this decision. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, I think it is very important to look out, as many have already done. It's hard to say the same arguments in the fourth place after three words, but I think we need to confirm. So I think that it is also important for the international outlook that this bill be adopted. Here we have heard that in a number of countries that are economically stronger, possibly economically weaker, the public holidays on Friday have already been introduced in many countries, much more public holidays than in Hungary. With us, adopting this bill would be 11 holidays. I think that this number does not mean, by any means, that it cannot mean that, from an economic point of view, some kind of negative change or crisis could occur in the life of a growing Hungarian economy. In view of all these arguments, we naturally fully support the adoption of this proposal by the KDNP and respectfully ask for the support of all the groups, thinking that feeling that this proposal is not a party political matter. I think that we can make this point, and I ask that all groups, all our fellow Members, support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-20-249	Thank you. I give the floor to Adam Mirkóczki, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-02-20-250	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik agrees with the aim of the proposal, supports the proposal, and, of course, in the final vote, we will vote in favour. I would not repeat the many arguments that have been made in support of this proposal and as a necessity. However, one thing came to my mind from the reasoning and reasoning of State Secretary Soltés when he said, otherwise quite rightly and rightly, that a lot of families, especially those with small children, are already taking the day off to be at home on Friday. I said the same argument almost word for word, and we put forward a similar proposal several times, for several years, though, not on Friday, but on December 24, Christmas Eve, where these arguments are almost entirely true. December 24th is basically a winter break for those who raise children, perhaps even more difficult to solve. I would suggest that, in view of the presentation on Friday - and it is likely that it will go through - I would not think that there will be someone who will vote against - that, at the next stage, the ministry or government or pro-government representatives should consider that 24 December, in my view, would be even less economically feasible, and I think it would cause much less damage even to employers, since there is no longer effective work. If they're working somewhere, they're only going until noon, the buses only go six hours. [[20.00]] I do not want to list the different sectors, but if, somewhere, it causes the smallest financial damage, say, an employer's public holidays or, where appropriate, the day off, that would be exactly 24 December. I think it is worth going on or going on with this proposal as soon as possible, let us also do so, because as a lot of people are annoyed about working and not spending enough time on the holiday, I think that this is also true about 24 December. It's worth thinking about, and that's all I'm asking you to think about in the future. We'd support that, too. Of course, if the government were not to announce a 12th public holiday on 24th, or not a proposal, you might be able to think of yourself as a day off. The services that are essential should go, but for whom it is possible, not only from a religious point of view, but also from a simple convenience and festive point of view, make your life easier. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-20-251	Thank you. I now give the floor to István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2017-02-20-252	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary. Last year, Zsolt Semjén, Zoltán Balog and Mihály Varga presented the bill for declaring Grand Friday a public holiday day in the form of a motion from individual representatives. Thus, there was no need to seek people's opinions, to have a social consultation; to consult churches, trade unions, employers' and trade unions. Miklós Soltész, State Secretary, spoke out of his mouth, and I would like to ask for a small amendment during the debate, a semi-phrase, that there was such a negotiation, where only employers protested against it. Please tell me a few words about this. We see that this was relatively narrow, if any. Obviously, there is a very broad consensus that there is room for a public holiday and we support it, but that this is exactly what the election is about, it would certainly have been worth opening up a social debate and not bypassing it, and obviously it would have been worth taking impact studies and making them familiar. But let's be specific about the proposal. I'd like to make some arguments, and I'm confident that I'll get some answers here in this conversation. As a first, you may remember, there were a number of those present last autumn, when a long-term proposal concerning the day of the Hungarian Navy finally came into force months later, and I made a pretty strong statement to KDNP members as drafters that it would be very good to have a slightly more thorough presentation of their own. If you remember, I'll tell you, there was a part in the justification that the dead sleep their eternal sleep in the wave tomb. I think that a KDNP proposal is more likely to come from Christians who believe in the resurrection. But not only would I be involved in such small things, but also in the fact that a need would not hurt, as in the present proposal. When I read this, that in the Christian liturgy, the Friday before Easter, on which Christians remember the suffering, the death and the funeral of Jesus Christ - the quote so far - is perfectly correct, the good wording, the only problem with it, which I resent, is written from Wikipedia. I think a proposal could have a higher rank than that. Could it have been the other way around and Wikipedia was taken later than this presentation in November? You can easily look at it because the entries can be traced back. Then I looked at it in several encyclopedias, and it was the first place I found it. If there's any argument, I'd be happy to hear it. I don't think this was a precise, thorough preparation. [[Miklós Soltész intervenes.]] Last October, Viktor Orbán announced the Memorial of the Synod of the Reformed Church in Hungary, and I quote: "We see the Memorial of Reformation as a suitable moment for the government to promote the worthy celebration of the Great Friday by declaring it a public holiday day. The Prime Minister also added that we only have to take one more obstacle, waiting for the nod of a Calvinist in Karcag. This last remark, we believe, refers to one of the authors of the individual MEP's motion, and it may be Mihály Varga. [[Németh Szilárd István: Minister of National Economy. László Szászfalvi: Hit, sink!]] Thank you, I had no other guess, version B. I quote from him from an earlier interview: We are Reformed, we only go to church twice a year, on Christmas and Easter. We've never been a zealous Catholic. I consider myself a zealous Catholic type at this speech, and I am a little offended at this part of the interview, but I think that if one of your authors or one of your approvalists declares this proposal as such, then how deeply rooted is this kind of motive that came from your proposal. It is also worth reading Zoltán Balog's speech at this council. According to the Minister, I quote: In today's world there is a need for the honour, credibility and weight of churches. In response to their role in this society, there will again be a public holiday commemorating Jesus'death on the cross. I'm going to continue with a slight omission:. The government can do all it can to declare Grandpa a public holiday day; to make it a holiday, it's the Church's job. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I think, obviously, when he said it as a minister, we should pay attention to finding somewhere the line that we have to find as a state official, minister, or as a member of a church, as a church minister, the difference between the two. To feel, to see why I'm saying this, I'm going to reverse it with a thought experiment. Recall, a few months ago, when there was just a ringing or a major turnaround of this Olympic initiative, those in Parliament had a broad consensus, very few who took a stand against the Olympics, and a social initiative that turned this around completely, and the government remained completely silent about it today. The Minister of Defence has answered questions in this regard. They're hiding from it. So there's almost a consensus here, and we've seen that from the outside, they've collected so many signatures that are one of the greatest signatures of all time, and they've only collected them in Pest. What if, Minister, Honourable Secretary of State, if a turn is to take place in Hungary, what if a government such as this comes to power and obtains such a majority that its first action is to abolish this initiative and abolish the big Friday as a public holiday? Do you understand reverse thinking? Let's think about it, too, so that we don't put something on society or think about it, form a consensus, give them the opportunity to say, "Well, they've come up with it, they haven't talked to anyone, they pushed it over, they haven't measured the situation that isn't their own point of view. This would be worth considering just so that it doesn't happen overnight because I'm not against it at all, but I'll give you a few arguments that I think are thoughtful. For example, one is that I believe that the current practice of celebrating Friday does not establish that this is a public holiday. Think about what's going on on on Friday. Crossroads at 3:00 p.m., memorial service at 5:00 p.m., then virtually end liturgicals. It is not this day that hinders people from practicing their religion, they may be working on this day. I myself participate regularly in these. What got me caught up was a big Thursday. I'm not saying we should declare this a public holiday. For example, the chrismallow service is Thursday morning and in the bishop's cathedrals. [[Miklós Soltész: That's not for us! That's for the clergy!]] So it's a lot harder to get there, it's more blocked. Friday, I think the rituals do not justify a public holiday on this day. It was in the interest of the families. [[20.10]] Let's take a look at the point that if the commercial units were closed on Friday - and I said that once again - they would open again on a big Saturday, and a wave of purchases would start, and that would break, I think, the stream of this holiday. It's much luckier if they don't have to go shopping on Saturday, but they can do it earlier, during the holiday. I think that's another matter to consider, because shops are rarely open for four days. Our position, the May Other Politics, is that if we are thinking on a public holiday, we should definitely start by assessing social needs, and in this regard - which has also been said - we think it is more fortunate that if, obviously, we know it, but we ask people, then the 24th of December will come forward much sooner, there is a much sooner demand for this. I mean, think about the situation of the family mother who works until 2:00, 4:00 or 6:00 on December 24th and practically falls in next to the Christmas tree. I am convinced that this is an aspect that, if we refer to families, it is worth considering. There would obviously be a number of social benefits if it were a public holiday on 24 December. It is clearly better suited to serve the objectives set out in the proposal as a public holiday. As I indicated earlier, I think that taking this from a church holiday to a state, a general public holiday, is much more justified on a wider occasion, such as 24 December. As has been said, the number of public holidays in Germany is 17 days, Slovakia is 15 days, and if the state of the economy makes this possible, it is, of course, fortunate to have as many as possible in Hungary; the human aspect, the interests of the people, are much more important than the concerns of employers. We would insist that you consider that 24 December is first, and we will also make our amendment to this. I look forward to the arguments raised, and I would welcome the openness to discuss these aspects, because I feel that the arguments made do not sufficiently support what you have indicated for this holiday. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-02-20-253	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have now reached the end of the keynote speeches, and now we have two-minute speeches. Congressman Zsolt Legány has spoken. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-02-20-254	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to state in advance that the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party supports the bill. We support it because the Hungarian Socialist Party has always been on the side of employees, and because we believe that this would be a welcome thing for workers, we therefore support the bill. And, of course, I absolutely do not want to get involved in a religious debate or theological debate with Mátrai Márta, but we think that the greatest celebration of Christendom is not Easter, but Christmas. [[There's a riot in the ranks of Jobbik and Fidesz. Adam Mirkóczki: You would have been wiser if you had kept quiet.]] I know we could start a debate from this point of view, but I think it would be Christmas, which is why my fellow Members have tabled a proposal during today, on the basis of which we would like 24 December, the day before Christmas, Christmas Eve, to be declared a public holiday by the government. And since, on the basis of the proposal, they are now initiating the declaration of the public holidays on Friday, so we think that, when we deal with this together, 24 December could also be declared a public holiday. In this respect, my fellow Members from the better and the LMP have already mentioned this matter. We believe that the declaration of 24 December as a public holiday day has a broad social acceptance, and, by the way, based on social habits, let's say, who can do so, it usually takes time off for this day to prepare for Christmas. And since they are taking a leave of absence, the performance of the economy on this day is lower than on the other working days anyway, so we would propose - my fellow Members have already tabled the amendment - that the Parliament declare the 24th of December as a public holiday day in addition to the Grand Friday. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-02-20-255	Thank you. State Secretary Miklós Soltész has come forward to comment on the debate.
u2017-02-20-256	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think that the style of the debate and its course obviously require us to put a thing or two in order, but with great friendship and love. And I think this is important, because it is rarely given in the Hungarian Parliament that we can think on a very serious issue in a very uniform and almost identical way; perhaps the final vote will also be the same. I don't understand your concern in this sense, because if there were ever - I don't know what time - for power - a left-wing opposition, then I suppose you wouldn't change that. So you've just been notified of your support. Muslims are not expected, at least we in Hungary, to change either Grand Friday or other Christian celebrations. So, if you'll excuse me, don't get the wrong idea, not being lectured, just a few things that might help us to put the debate that I think we started well together in the same way that ultimately helps us to make a decision together. I would like to say to Nándor Gúr that Christian people are moving away and staying away from the truth. That's why they want to be quiet, to go to the ceremony, to get close to the truth. So not from the truth of the world, but from what Christian people, believers, consider to be the highest truth and the greatest truth. What I am experiencing in life, as man grows older, is that more and more people say it before he dies, in some serious crisis, that it must be something, because this world alone doesn't work. And this is a huge opportunity, I stress once again, in this respect not only for Christian people, but also for people who seek God and even for people who do not believe. So I really don't want to argue about revelation, because, let's say, in our faith, revelation appears in the Old and New Testament. So neither Viktor Orbán nor anyone else is making a statement, because it is a completely different concept in our thinking. He may have said an idea which - and here I would like to refer a little back to the question of the LMP lead speaker - has indeed been mentioned at the Reformation Memorial Committee, but the leaders of the churches were there, and they were not only on the Catholic side of the Protestant churches, so it must be said in this respect that there has already been a debate or discussion, and the economic question was indeed the only one that we could take on. Because it's undeniable that he's behind it. Another question is that that hundred billion HUF amount was thrown by someone from the employer's side, many have denied it, many have not; this is a controversial question, because some things stop, some things still work. Trade works, hospitality doesn't work that way, but rather, at this time, everyone's own business. Obviously, the industry is going to stop a little, but you know that the multinationals are going to take advantage of the whole year, and they are saying that they are going to bring in in in other situations what they have set out in the previous years, what they are going to produce here in Hungary. So I don't really think that's what we need to argue about, because on the other hand, the human factor is at least as important. And if we look back at the past, say, the great Soviet Union wanted to figure it out, and even the French Revolution, so that it would be not a week's work week but ten days' work week, and then there would be only public holidays; they wouldn't win it. Somehow, a man has a rhythm, and if there were no holidays, no holidays, then we can safely say that it would destroy not only human communities, not just the family, but the whole society. So in this regard, if they said we had 30 public holidays, I'd say that's a disaster. But since we are about on average in the European Union, this is not an economic issue, I do not think it is worth discussing. [[20.20]] What was said here on December 24th, I would like to fix it very briefly. Thus, December 24 was established over time by actually calling it Christmas Eve, but the eve of Christ's birth. The 25th of the Northern Hemisphere is the day of equinox, the day of Christ's birth, and in 325 the Council of Nice decided on this, so 25th is the birth of Christ. In this respect, interestingly, in fact, Christianity has now started its premiere Mass, but it actually begins with the midnight Mass in the Catholic Circle, but the same is also true in Protestant churches. So I'd just like to say that this is somehow the 24th of the time, but 25-26th of the holiday. Not to mention that in the Christian festive circle - here I would like to say Zsolt Legény's comment - it is actually our greatest celebration of the Easter celebration, and we say this on purpose, because as strange as it may be to say it, death and resurrection belong together in Christianity, and in this respect it does not matter what kind of denomination we are talking about, orthodox, Protestant churches or Catholic Church. Our greatest celebration is the death of Christ, his crucifixion, his death, his burial, and then his resurrection on Sunday. It was so intoxicated with mankind that, if you think about it, during the 70 years of great communism in Russia, Sunday as a day could not be abolished, so it was such a big holiday that even Lenin, Stalin and others could not wipe it out. Fantastic! And this is an encouraging thing, I think, in every respect, that shows that in this environment where we live, here in Europe, from Russia to England, in various forms of Christianity, this has been inculcated in people for 2,000 years. They're trying to change this now with all kinds of ideologies and ideologies from the east and elsewhere, but it's not gonna work, and that's why it might be important to give it to the greatest denominations - and these Christian denominations, I would like to stress - who consider themselves religious. 95-96 percent say they belong to one of the Christian denominations, so it is understandable, and I would add that none of the Jewish denominations protested. There was no objection to Muslims belonging to the two established churches in Hungary, no one said that we should now come up with other holidays. That is another question that you have raised, and I cannot answer that, because it is indeed a matter of a separate next decision whether or not the 24th of December is a day off. No one wants to sweep this off, don't get it wrong, I only put this thinking as much as possible, because we now have the opportunity from an economic point of view, and I think that spiritually this is good for the country if we have such an opportunity. After all, if we look around this wonderful building, here is the cross as a motif, and the cross is not only a motif, but much more, it is here among us constantly, and this remains interestingly even in the communist system. Compared to this, I think that this could be a nice decision together, and that if we make this decision together, then there is no need to fear that in 5 years, 15 years, hopefully, no one will change it in 150 years. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-20-257	Thank you. There are candidates for further two-minute comments. I give the floor to Congressman Adam Mirkóczki.
u2017-02-20-258	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Far be it from me to lecture or argue, especially in a debate on this subject, only Zsolt Legény made me press a button, and I do not want to teach, but rather to tell a very short story. At the height of 2007-08, I was working on a commercial radio in Eger, and I was running a show even at Easter, and I decided to dedicate a short show to Easter, which is precisely because I find that a lot of people are not aware of the order of importance and real content of different holidays, especially Christian holidays. I invited the parish priest of the Eger servita church for a short interview, and I asked him to explain in the simplest words, avoiding theological and dogmatic expressions, in the simplest, most understandable way, why the Easter of Christianity and not Christmas - contrary to what you said - is his greatest celebration, and he said that it is very simple, that everyone can be born and not be resurrected. That's just what I wanted for your speech. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-20-259	I give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity in two minutes.
u2017-02-20-260	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to Mr. Secretary of State's speech. What I would like to say to the aspects outlined just now, which are also mentioned in the keynote speakership, is that I ask you, when a public holiday is appointed, not to have a religious or religious root in that sense, because then anyone is right to say that this is not the state's job, that it cannot lead you out of a church holiday, why it would explicitly bind you to one thing, but to seek a social consensus in this, because that is our task. We are Members and are the leaders of this state because we have to take the social aspects into consideration, and that is why I am arguing again and again. Obviously, I would like to improve Mr Secretary of State that there is no winter equinox, this is a solstice, and it is not closely related, because it is a few days after. I completely agree that the 24th is not a holiday. We all know very well that we know best in that time, whether it's Easter, how it comes out that Saturday night, compared to Friday's death, is a resurrection, how the three days come out. We know very well that the days started from nightfall, so by nightfall, we mean when it gets dark on December 24th. What time is this? Four o'clock? Something like this gets dark at that time, so maybe that's why you have the right to think about it in this respect, and to take into account the social need that I think is much stronger. So, as I said before, we support both of them. The European average of public holidays is 12, I think that it can easily fit both of them, but if there is to be a priority, I think that the social aspects prefer the 24th, and that is what we need to pay attention to in the first place. Thank you.
u2017-02-20-261	Thank you. I now give the floor to Minister Zoltán Balog in two minutes.
u2017-02-20-262	Thank you very much. This may also make the longer term unnecessary. The National Economic and Social Council has been in place since 2011, where there is an order in which, as otherwise agreed in the European Union, representatives of churches, representatives of employers, workers, science, culture and representatives of the civilian side are discussing the proposals. There we listened to all the opinions in an over an hour's debate with the Secretary of State. The proposal has been made available to everyone, and, as we have heard, 5:1 has been supported by this council, which has been operating with public satisfaction since 2011-12. So the fact that there would have been no negotiation here, I do not like to hear it, because, by the way, the representatives of the trade unions are sitting there, and they also supported this proposal. And the TAB, the Legislative Committee, unanimously supported it, and I think it's your faction, so I don't understand exactly what kind of lack of support you're talking about. And then let me tell you something about your theological part. On 24 December, it was not a separate holiday, it slipped to the Christmas circle, the great Friday was a separate Christian holiday. We didn't buy the definition from Wikipedia, but Wikipedia bought it from the two thousand-year-old Christian encyclopedias not exactly. So the thing is, just because Wikipedia quotes a theological work doesn't mean we can quote this theological work, so I don't know why we have to rephrase what's actually right for reality. And while you've been arguing about going to church tonight, Congressman, the hour of death is at 3:00 p.m., there is a liturgical element for this, but the point is, however, the great Friday, which is in the Easter circle, but it is a separate holiday, so there is a separate event, and there is no separate event on 24 December. [[20.30]] I just don't understand, and here I feel a little frivolous about the proposal for 24 December, because if I were to discuss the number of HUF 100 billion, it would not cost the Hungarian economy 200 billion? If the preparation we have reported is missing, why are you asking us to present a proposal that is not really prepared? Thank you very much for your patience. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-20-263	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman László Szászfalvi in two minutes.
u2017-02-20-264	Thank you very much. In fact, I think the Minister has also told me about the closing area, and perhaps he will finish it, and I am sorry, I did not want to get into it, but I wanted to reflect on the thoughts of our fellow Member Ikotity. He asked for the opinion of the people and the opinion of the people, if I understand correctly, on the authors, on the issue of social need. I think it is a reality that there are Christian, Christian people and communities in Hungary. It's also a social need. Obviously, I do not want to throw numbers here, but we can say that there are millions of Christians and Christians in Hungary today. Now, of course, it is possible to argue about how many of these Christian, Christian, regularly exercising their faith, how many nos, how many Sundays a month, how many times a year, how many times, two or three great festivals, or I don't know. In general, we say that 15-20 percent is a believer who regularly exercises his faith in Hungary. If we count this now, my fellow Member, it is a significant social need, a significant number, if you can put it that way. I think that twenty-seven years after the so-called system change, we should now take into account the needs of Christian, Christian people in Hungary as a social need, as a community reality, as a social, tangible reality, which is a living community, an existing community in Hungary. Just that, by the way, I looked at it, and I went over my list very quickly in terms of the international situation. Christmas Eve is a public holiday in four countries, but 31 October is a public holiday in at least the same number of countries. And I would suggest that we introduce October 31 as a public holiday, especially if it's the 500th anniversary of the Reformation, maybe in a hundred years' time we'll probably get to the fact that it's also a public holiday. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-20-265	I now give the floor again to Secretary of State Miklós Soltész.
u2017-02-20-266	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just one more thought very briefly, because perhaps it is not the Minister's officer to explain or to tell himself whether, say, a believer and a state leader can be divided in person or not. I think it's an incredibly bad thinking. He took public appearances as a believer, not just by him, but by many. Then it cannot be said that as long as I am in the walls of Parliament, I cannot think, act or behave like one, and from the other side, when I go out and go into the church, I can. That was the essence of Bolshevism, at least to enter the temple walls, where people practice their religion. I think it is a very important statement, a manifestation, that the people who have been the authors dared to take it up, that this is indeed a very necessary or important decision for the Hungarian nation. On the subject of Congressman Szászfalvi, 55 percent of the people at the census said that they belonged to a church. Over 90 percent of people, about 92-93 percent say they have some kind of belief in God. If we say that 55 percent belong to some kind of church, and within that, Christian denominations are 97-98 percent, then I have to say that it is also a social need. It is the job of people who are responsible for the economy, like Mihály Varga, to tell us whether we can now start one of these, or not, and all those who are here as believers in Parliament, or even as God-seekers, to look for and support the celebrations that ultimately belong to the celebration circle of this vast, multiplicity. However, we have our national holidays, and we have, let's say, an international holiday, and the 1 May will continue. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-20-267	Thank you. I would like to tell Mr Nándor Gúr that it is not possible for two minutes now, because he was already on the part of the MSZP once, but in a normal timeframe at any time, or in the previous ones, there are others who have already checked in. So in a normal time frame, I give the floor first to Congressman Sándor Burány.
u2017-02-20-268	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Christian and religious traditions also determine the lives of those who do not necessarily go to church. The everyday life of our culture is transcribed by these traditions, and often we don't know about it ourselves. When a person doubts and says that he is tawking, those who use that term may not always be aware that they are reaching for infidel Thomas, they refer back to those words, but regardless of him, it has also become a common, common word for those who, say, do not know the Bible line by line, and have never read it. The traditions of the church itself have changed over the centuries, even though these traditions have been fixed for many hundreds of years. The church itself took over former pagan festivals, mister's forgiveness, and more precisely as a religious holiday, it defined days that had previously been festivals of other religions, pagan religions, compared to Christendom. For example, the winter solstice, but I can still give examples. Easter's not like that. The year of Christ's death, if not known, but by the way, on what day the month fell, yes, contrary to his date of birth, which in this sense we cannot accurately determine. If we start from historical facts or from the position of the stars, for we know that a strange celestial phenomenon foretold the birth of Jesus, then no matter how strange and unimaginative what I say, we can say that Jesus was born at the earliest before Christ in 7 but not before Christ in 4. Then, by consensus, a council decided when Jesus'birthday would be, and since then this tradition has been held by Christendom, at least in the West. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] To my knowledge, certain holiday days of Orthodox Christianity fall to other days, if that was not clear enough. But the holidays themselves have established traditions in society, and these are worth taking into account. It's a shame to open a theological debate about what Christmas Eve is in theological sense. It is true that in Hungary it is at least Christmas Eve for families, regardless of whether it is accurate or inaccurate in theological sense. But Easter itself has social habits. As far as I know, Easter Monday is not a church holiday, but it is necessary to acknowledge a social habit that I think even the revolution might break out if we question whether Easter Monday should be a public holiday in the future. In this sense, if I may use that term, it is not from the devil at all, when, in addition to certain church holidays, we also consider the social customs associated with church holidays. I deeply agree with the words of my fellow Member István Ikotity, who said that theological items are very important, religion itself is very important, but here in Parliament, we must, as far as possible, create laws that take into account the great traditions, religious standards and traditions, including social customs that may be associated with them, and that, in pursuit of a kind of social consensus, we must, in the service of the common good, make our laws and decisions. In this respect, it does not matter whether, individually or as a Member, our conscience's command is in our vote or not, the point is that Parliament must strive for the common good, serve the common good, and in this sense it must not legislate theological items. Therefore, I would only like to suggest with respect, because there has been a bit of a debate about who is right and which council when what has been done, and what is the truly greater religious holiday, it is a pity to argue about it. It is a fact and it is true that church holidays must also be recognised on a public holiday, the church is a social organizational force, church traditions are very strong traditions, they must be respected, but I also think that at least the 24th of December should be considered in this respect, as also a public holiday, regardless of which celebration the church considers to be the greater, simply because the church itself has introduced social customs into church celebrations, the people themselves have added their own customs to existing church holidays. We have to take into account what is a rational decision, according to the needs of Hungarian society, taking into account the burden-bearing capacity of the Hungarian economy. I ask my fellow Members to do this, no matter what their conscience commands them to do in this matter. To sum up, therefore, I did not wish to do these additional thoughts in contradiction with the proposal, and I tried to amend our common thinking in this direction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[20.40]]
u2017-02-20-269	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity in a normal time frame.
u2017-02-20-270	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I'm glad that we can talk about these things, and I trust that we will all live this way. Although I feel that sometimes we talk side by side, although there is consensus on many things, I try to highlight a few things. I do not wish to increase the blood pressure of Secretary Soltés, but it is clear that, in connection with the word "bolshevik" that he jumps to this point, and I myself, but obviously there is a connotation that makes us think that we are trapped in the church, religion must be practiced within the temples, but at the same time it is also involved in the interpretation of the word "bolshevik" and in the public awareness that one group of society is suppressing the other, the other group, the majority is often suppressed by the minority. But I think if any social group, whether it's a religion or anything, moves on to the others and goes beyond what it's assigned to, is allowed, then I think it could be a kind of negative thing that could hit back. When you defended the Minister, I understand that it is obviously difficult for a person to separate what his church beliefs are and what his state position is, but somewhere, because we are only talking about a secularized country, we need to be able to isolate it. In some areas, it is not theology that we are talking about, we are talking about some historical and I think most historical things, it is not theology. With the lexicon aim, I wanted to say that this could have been a more thorough job. I haven't been able to find it since, while I've fallen on this expression in various encyclopedias, and I haven't found the history of this, but obviously this term is a clever, good, concise definition, and I'm sorry that they took it from somewhere. I'm sure you all know that taking over something from Wikipedia and putting it in something is not a cool thing, it's not a quality-enhancing thing. I think it's a social standard these days. It was said by my fellow Member on 31 October. I support it, so it's one of those things that it's respectable, and it does have a right, but the only thing I ask with respect, and again, let's see, let's talk to people. When my fellow Member said how much social need there is, how many Christian people in society, that is true, but do they have that need? If I leave at 3:00 p.m., as the Minister said, on a crossroads on Friday, I see very few people there, and I see very few people not only because those people are working. I wonder if this will be introduced, and obviously it will be introduced, on Friday afternoon, on Friday, at three o'clock, how many will be in the church next year, the following year. I don't think churches are so full of people. I am thinking about whether there is such a need. And what do I mean by social need? I think that the Fidesz-KDNP has held this kind of national consultation many times, for example, one is being advertised right now. It is within these limits that people can be asked, I think, for example, about such a question, which is not directly necessary to support the direct political objective, the Prime Minister's year review or report, but what is the opinion of the people on this. Finally, for the last time, it is very good that my fellow Member Burány mentioned the concept of the common good. Indeed, that is what we have to take into account, I think, as Members here, and now we have this hat on us, in particular, that we are Members, Ministers, State Secretarys, and that is the task that must be fulfilled. Once again, I think we're gonna have a little talk next to each other, so please let us understand each other. I ask you to consider the social weight of these, also considering that I am aware, as I have already said, that the 24th is not a holiday, it is a holiday, but there are a lot more people who want to be in a family circle at 4:00 in the afternoon, and the value of families and the solidarity of families there is very well shown when they are together on the 24th afternoon. I think these are important and to be taken into account for us.
u2017-02-20-271	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr in a normal time frame.
u2017-02-20-272	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do not wish to overwhelm the story, so I do not want to go into repetitions or cause a greater debate, because we have signalled from the Hungarian Socialist Party, who said that we will support the bill. But I'd like to tell you that you should always attribute to us what we tell you, no more. In the context of Miklós Soltész's first comment, I would like to say about the great Friday, when, in quotes, people move away, where appropriate, he says that they should stay away from the truth, attribute this sentence to me. Well, I didn't say such a sentence, and I said a sentence that was about the fact that Friday was a strict fast, that the great Friday was accompanied by the need for greater silence, that of the great dinomdanoms, and that of the Christian man. So I think that it is worth and must go to the other political parties' opinions as long as they can be properly supported, even if they are State Secretary. The other thing I would like to say again is that, in an economic sense, every public holiday obviously carries some level of burden. I'm not saying that's a hundred billion forints, no. I do not claim it, because it is obvious that this story is much more complex; it is more complex, because in a sense it is accompanied by a fall-out, and on other surfaces it is accompanied by revenue to declare such a public holiday day, I do not go into repetitions, obviously in terms of tourism and other areas. The employers have said a great deal of approach in this regard. I think it is more likely that this is likely to be worth tens of billions of forints, I suppose, I have no background calculations, but I do miss that the government doesn't have them either, at least it didn't become known before us, we didn't know if there were any. If and if there are, then it would be okay for the Minister to talk about it and factually support the story as to what it really means, and then he should not be throwing numbers at us when we talk about Grandpa and 24 December, his predecessor, or declaring it to be a public holiday day that is 200. If 100 is not 100, then, correctly, twice 100 is not 200, and if 20-20, then 200 is 40.But I don't want to play with the numbers, but I want to say that my fundamental problem is that no matter what type of law is put into the walls of this House, we never actually see background calculations, fundamental calculations, which are virtually the decision of the Members of Parliament, not the pro-government, just because they don't see, as I know, but the decision of the Members of Parliament in this respect would also be helpful. [[20.50]] So what I would like to suggest is that this deficit should be replaced, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the practice that has been practiced for seven years and that background calculations should be carried out, and on the third, I would like to suggest, because I think that every one of us's feelings says that if we approach this issue financially, economically - in my view, this is not the primary one, but if we are on the basis of this - we can see what this could mean in the order of magnitude, then we should not be afraid of the 24th of December, we should not fear the 24th of December, the public holidays of its predecessor. Let us not be afraid, because if we take the economic approach of Friday and 24 December, I dare say with a calm spirit that declaring 24 December a public holiday means much less economic loss than declaring Grandpa a public holiday. This comes from simple experiences that would be difficult to get rid of, and I don't think you can get rid of. In this sense, for the third time today, I ask with great respect between the walls of this House that we take seriously our amendment in which we are initiating the declaration of 24 December as a public holiday day. That is because if they had looked at the fact that if they had held a national consultation, as I have already said, on this issue, I think I am also not mistaken that if only these two days had been given as an alternative to elections, the vast majority of people would most likely have placed the announcement of 24 December as a public holiday in the priority line. In this sense, if the social needs are to be taken into account, it would be worth considering, once again, the declaration of 24 December as a public holiday, in addition to declaring it a public holiday day on Friday. It is simply because we are talking about days related to church holidays. And, as my fellow Member Burány said, taking into account the social customs of church holidays is essential, and so, as he said, the service of the common good is our priority in all aspects, including legislation. I really don't want to add to it, but once again, I would like to ask that the amendment which would declare 24 December a public holiday day, along with Grandpa, be supported by the pro-government representatives. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-20-273	Thank you. I now give the floor to Minister Zoltán Balog.
u2017-02-20-274	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I promise to speak to him for the last time in this House tonight. I wouldn't want to spoil that mood - perhaps I can sense it - other than that which generally prevails here, and if it doesn't seem too arbitrary, then I would say that Christian culture is somehow instigating this House, and, where appropriate, we don't cut insults to each other's heads that usually occur here for a reason or for no reason. It's a good debate, I think we want to give people something. We agree on that, and I think it's a big deal. But what we want to give and how we want to give, and we argue about it, and that's a good thing, because that's what we do. And I say, perhaps it has something to do with the fact that we have something to talk about, not just how much - although it is a very important thing - but also how there are values and interests, and we are trying to bring them into line. While, instead of confronting the declaration of a public holiday on Friday and 24 December, I would say that we should be happy that we have taken a step that - I'm sure - everyone is happy about. There may be some who would be more pleased if they declared his birthday as a public holiday or even 24 December, I do not dispute this at all, but that it is good for everyone that the Easter celebration, the Easter holidays, also for those for whom it is not a holiday, but simply a public holiday, it is not worth opening a debate, because that is certainly the case. I think we should be happy that something is happening here that is good for everyone. And then it follows what Congressman Ikotity is pushing over and over again. I don't understand exactly, and I have the goodwill to understand why it would be a problem for someone to talk about their own festive habits, or to talk about why this matter is important to him. When we are trying to find the common good, we are sitting here on the basis of some interests, and we must represent the interests of those to whom this is more important. For some, employers are more important than workers, some are more important than employers. I think the government's job is to take these aspects into account. I'm sure you can come up with aspects that are less important to others. I don't think it's tragic at all. Here we have heard a representative, László Szászfalvi, who is important and who is interested in the aspects of the Reformed people, and if we are talking about it, we do not offend those to whom this is less important, but rather partly to disseminate knowledge, and in part it turns out that in Hungary there is a wealth in the culture and traditions of communities that is worth respecting, and we can respect it when we know it. Indeed, it has been repeatedly suggested that the 31st of October be a public holiday on the 500th anniversary of the Reformation. We have not tabled this proposal, but we have just heard a proposal. I think it's better for a country to talk about why we think what we think or why we think we don't talk about it than to spill a common sauce on things and not tell them where we come from. I listened to it with great pleasure, even if there was a slight mistake, which was said here by former Secretary of State in connection with the holidays, because the second day of Easter is, of course, a church holiday, it has its strict liturgical order. But you are right in what Congressman Nándor Gúr stressed is that social customs are already taking this thing in the professional direction of watering, which also has the very ancient mythical and then later became ecclesiastical or can be interpreted churchly. Of course, it is a good thing that we find out about each other that we can also say that we have something to say about this. I am thinking of József Antall, who said that even the atheist in Europe is a Christian. He was thinking precisely that there is a cultural basis for this world, regardless of whether Congressman Varga may be going to church three times a year, because it will also be a public holiday on Friday and he can go to church. How many times we go to church or don't go to church or sing on Christmas Eve, I don't know which one, the Silent Night or something, or what we're gonna do on Easter, it's bound us somehow. I think it's worth talking about, even if that's not the point. As a promoter of my original profession, perhaps I could have allowed myself a deeper discussion of Theologia crucis, the theology of the cross, which was the great rediscovery of Martin Luther after the Church Fathers, but I deliberately did not talk about this, but rather that there was something important to Christians, and in particular, we could have talked about it, Protestants were more important than Roman Catholics. The Orthodox celebrate these festivals at the same time, only according to another calendar, but they also count that the ascension is 40 days from Easter, 50 days from Pentecost and so on. The reason I talked less about this is that in this matter, we have found a proposal that, regardless of whether someone is atheist, religious, Protestant, or Catholic, he is given an additional opportunity to rest and fill his rest in the way that is best suited to him. And it doesn't hurt - and in this day we draw attention to this - that if those who otherwise do not share these thoughts learn that in the tradition of Hungary and Europe this day has a deep meaning and a deep message of two thousand years. It is strange, indeed, that we are fasting for the feast, and Nándor Gúr is right about that, but the Christians will remember it with a very strict fasting on this day. And this has one general message - I could quote a comment from the National Economic and Social Council - that anyone who does not share these thoughts with a very deep faith has something to say. [[21.00]] This is about no result without a victim. Without the cross, there is no resurrection. Without being able to give up something, someone there has given up their life, without having any success. This is also an important social message that stands still regardless of Christendom. There must be smart psychologists who can quote this regardless, or they can bring it to people as a teaching that it can be learned from. And there are those who draw attention to it in this way. There are other religious groups and non-religious groups who, with the celebration of their own culture, have adopted many such commemorative days, calling attention to the fact that even if it is not a public holiday that they are here in this country, they also have something to say. The Hungarian Parliament was also a pioneer in the European context, and it paid tribute to Germany and the German Bundestag, and they came after us to commemorate the Memorial Day of the abduction and persecution of Germans and Swabians in Hungary. They didn't take us, maybe they didn't take our grandparents, even though I know about someone who's sitting in this Parliament and personally involved in this thing, but if there's a memorial day, it's also a message to those who are not directly affected by this thing. Because we're a community, and there's a lot of people here. I too, in order to provoke my secretary of state, the representative of the government, a little, let me tell you a story of how these traditions may be connected. I, until I became a stick-making politician, was the pastor of a German-speaking Protestant community, where in the mid-1900s, I believe, after the First World War, there was a serious debate between the Presbyterium, the Council of Church and the pastor, because the pastor refused to hold a ceremonial service on 1 May. He said it wasn't a church holiday. It's a socially sensitive pro-worker, in the sense that it was a community on the side of the workers, and they demanded their pastor to have a devotion in this regard. This was before 1945, or before 48, the 1st of May was a different holiday. The pastor thought that he did go to those workers who went to the church and about the work as a service, the teaching of John Calvin, held a fine meditation. And the two founders of that community, Josef Dreher, the brewer, gave three barrels of beer for the festival, and Gerbeaud, who was Catholic, came to Hungary with the Huguenots, celebrated this day with all kinds of delicious cakes. Then it turned out that by 1 May, Christianity had something to say to work as a holiday, of course, in the sense of social teaching. What became of May 1 later, and what became of us today, is a next question. But what traditions we have, I think it's worth talking about, not listening to. I'm not ashamed to be a believer. For a very long time in this country, there was a system where they wanted to be ashamed of the callers. I think we should talk about this with modest pride, because you are not a good Christian, but you are trying to be a good Christian. If it's related to your work, it's okay. Let's not do that, I'm getting too excited right now, and I'm afraid to criticize one of the public-law dignitaries that I respect very much, and who said that he doesn't participate in sacred communion in a Mass because there are people in the country who don't hold it, and he shows everyone the unity of the nation. I think that's a bad approach. You can enrich the community by accepting who he is. If you tell me who he is and then you're elected Prime Minister, President of the Republic, Congressman, it means that people think he's worth it. It's much better than having colorless, odorless, plastic people sitting in Parliament, hiding all that's in their heads or minds, so that they don't accidentally cause someone to stumble or exclude someone from their support. I think it's a good thing that we agreed that it's important to us, and we have an extra focus. The most important aspect is that this is good for everyone, and beyond that there is an additional aspect for Christians, and in addition, in the sense of Theologia crucis mentioned, Protestants have yet to have one more aspect in this matter; because the Lutheran word has not yet been spoken in this debate. I think it's most important for them to say that very nice liturgical habits are connected to this, and Martin Luther has really made this tradition strong, which Calvin also has. So, if there is something to be added to the debate on otherwise desirable but not always successful consensus, I would like to add that. Thank you very much for all your comments. I do not think that we are ruling it out, although we do not have a mandate to consider 24 December. It is worth returning to it if we consider this matter, when we will be in a position to support it. But I'm asking you not to confront each other, so let's accept it. Thank you for your support in this matter, and then when we can move on, let's move on. Thank you for all your comments. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-20-275	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Sándor Burány in two minutes.
u2017-02-20-276	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Even within the church, there was no unity in what festivals were to be held or not to be held. Speaking of Reformation, I read it a long time ago, but one of Merle's favorite readings was French history or stories, I don't know exactly what the title of the first book was, and then the whole novel is obviously history. There is a very nice scene in which the Baron converts the people of his house from Catholic faith to Reformed faith. Of course, there are arguments and men listen to him. The women had a little doubt, and it was more difficult for them to accept that the Virgin Mary was no longer to be respected as a saint or even a saint, but finally the people of the baron's entire house, as it should be, would turn to the Reformed faith. Then one of your men will ask the Baron, "Good-good," but what about the feast of the saints, we will celebrate them as we have done before. The answer to the missionary was that this could not be done, because if we do not recognize the saints, of course we will not celebrate their day. Then there was a shocking silence in the room, because they realized that they had lost 50 holidays a year with the transition. So Calvin and Luther may have had clear principles and beliefs in this matter, but I suspect that the Barons had other considerations. Thus, even in Christendom's history, church holidays took place on changing days and in varying numbers. It's just an add-on, not reopened and not contradicted at all. I just want to say that, once again, it is not from the devil to consider the economic and social effects. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-02-20-277	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity in two minutes.
u2017-02-20-278	I'll try to be very quick. Minister has indicated that he does not fully understand, which is why I am trying to make another attempt to do so. We're a community. We have historic holidays, 15 March, 23 October, which we remember. There are, as you said, different memorial days, there are church holidays, which are equally of different significance. There are courses at times, we all have bad memories when November 7 or April 4 has to be celebrated. They said from now on, you have to celebrate, it's mandatory, you have a holiday. I think we should pay attention to it, knowing that it is obviously a gift of what religion we are, of what beliefs we are, of what values we have within it, because it can be different, and it can be nice and good, but I think that if we say to one of them that this can be highlighted among all the others, then there may not be so much consensus in society about this. I think that we are a democracy, which means that obviously we must seek consensus, the greatest possible consensus, but if this does not succeed, then I think that this is obviously very important values, and this is to be fully supported, but I also think it is important to consider what people choose, if we ask people what they want, what they celebrate more, what they would do better, then... This is what I am referring to, this is what I would like to make clear that this aspect is not... Obviously, it is a very important value how we view it from a religious point of view, from our religious belief that we can see it, but it may be more important for us to take into account what society, the common good, requires with greater need because of our mandate in the current democratic system. Thank you.
u2017-02-20-279	Thank you. I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on today's debate and discussion. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see a candidate. The general debate is therefore closed. [[21.10]] Although Minister, you've already given me a closing text, I have to ask you. [[On the sign of Zoltán Balog:]] But it indicates that you no longer wish to comment. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. This is the end of the discussion of our agendas, so the speeches after the agenda will follow. Mr Sebestyén Vágó applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "The Year of St. László." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-02-20-280	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Last week, in Győr, on Friday, 17 February, Dr. Bishop András Veres officially opened St. László's year in the framework of a Holy Mass. It is very important to celebrate the year of St. Laszlo not only from the point of view that our reigning king, St. László or László I, is one of our greatest rulers, but why it is still important, let us look at what we owe him. We can thank him for actually finishing this work, the work of St. Stephen, to make it a Christian European country; he was the one who strengthened the Christian church in Hungary; he also formed the archbishop of Chanad. It also strengthened the protection of private property in the country, defended the country against both external and internal attacks, and did so not only as ruler but also actively as knight king. And all of this by being a serious believer and, as evidenced by his later initiation of a saint, was an exemplary king of Christian and Catholic life. This is also proven by the fact that by meditating not only on the outside, but also on the internal struggle with the own pagans, he was able to restore it as a Christian man, taking into account the fact that he didn't kill, and even that he was also a warlord, taking into account the commands and revelations of your other face, he was an actual swordsman and, in the course of the battles, a ruler who defended the country against both internal and external attacks and, in fact, a general. Thanks to his exemplary life and his proven miracles, and as a result, in 1192 the Pope made him holy. What he can teach us, we must consider in a commemorative year what St. Laszlo can teach us, what the parable we may need to follow this year. We know very well that, as at that time, Christian Hungary and Christian Europe are under threat. As a Christian, as a European man, it is also our duty to protect the country from these external attacks. The country must be protected not only against external attacks, but also against internal attacks, whether against Christianity or against national attacks, and, taking into account the example of St. Laszlo, we must also fight the paganism in our own souls, and thus live an exemplary life as individuals. St. Laszlo's year would give us the opportunity to do a lot of other things. We have said this many times since we came to Parliament, and I can agree with this that Hungary has many historical personalities, so many heroes and so many exemplary leaders, about whom it would be worth shooting an historic adventure film. I think that if we were to film a historical adventure film about St. László's life, it would be a fair chance for an Oscar prize, because I think that there would be no shortage of twists and excitement, and that he could have the right spiritual content, and that the right spiritual conclusion could also be made. Or let's look at what is happening now in Somogyvár, Somogy County: Kornél Bakay revealed the ruins there. In a commendable way, the government intended to create a memorial place, a visitor center, only the sad fact that this visitor center is not at the site of the ruins discovered, but several kilometers from there, and as a result, the visitor center is not so much visited as if it were on the spot, in addition to the fact that the visitor center, the ruins discovered and the building ensembles are in a worse and worse state, and if the government does not pay for it, they are likely to be destroyed, and they will not be seen for posterity, we cannot see the location, the abbey that was founded by our King Saint Laszlo himself. So I think that we should look at Saint László as our role model for our own life, whether from the point of view of nation building, or in the light of Christian values, and turn this year to this, but in addition to the two examples taken, we should also use this year for such a constructive and useful thing. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-20-281	Thank you. Speaking after the next agenda, MEP Zoltán Magyar asked for a reply, and you answered? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-02-20-282	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! On the part of Jobbik today, this problem has already been said in general - as a problem affecting the whole country - by my fellow Member, Enikő Hegedűsné Kovács, who is also a politician in this area, he has already raised this. However, I thought it was important to confirm this after the agenda, because a request from the municipalities mentioned above came from my constituency, I believe, not only in my direction, but also in the direction of all the Members of Parliament concerned, and I hope that we will be able to hear similar motions and speeches from them. In the beginning, I must say that I have sent this request, this letter, of course, in writing to the competent minister, because the most important thing is that if you get word for word what the leaders of the affected municipalities want, and you can answer them, too, if nothing else, through me. I think we are talking about another step in bleeding out the countryside when it comes to the humiliating salary of government officials. This letter, which I received about two weeks ago from the representative body of the municipalities of Ivan, Újkér, Csáfordjánosfa, Puszta family, Csáfordjánosfa, Csér, I felt that it should be mentioned here. Stakeholders found that the government is not planning to increase the salary of municipal civil servants in 2017 or 2018, and there is no guarantee that the HUF 38 650 civil servant salary fund could increase. Therefore, only the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage and the so-called serial step would result in a wage increase for the employees of the Office. By accepting the guaranteed minimum wage of 161 thousand forints, practically the salary bill of municipal civil servants was destroyed. It is amazing that a civil servant of 35-37 years of labour law will reach only the level of the guaranteed minimum wage. The resulting wage tension and the situation relating to the salary of the employees concerned were further aggravated by the Law on State officials adopted in 2016. As a result, the salary of civil servants and administrators of public affairs is reduced by 76 percent compared to the lower limit of the salary of public officials and administrators of state affairs and, on average, by 150 percent less than the ceiling. Of course, I am not saying and we are not saying that state officials paid well, but I am saying that employees at municipal offices can humiliatingly take little home. Although settlements with higher tax revenues can accept a higher salary base, it cannot be said that for municipalities with more budgetary disadvantages. And that only adds to the gap that exists between these settlements anyway. In recent times, there has also been an increase in the trend of well-trained local government workers in other sectors where income is more competitive. [[21.20]] In general, it can be said that they have decided to increase the salary base beyond their power to guarantee the livelihood of their employees. Such expenditure would require the support of the central budget or an increase in the amount of aid granted under the authority of the municipal office. We are also facing the same problem in supplementing the budget of the family support and child welfare service association, as the compulsory wage increase obliges the municipalities to pay a contribution here too. It is clear, therefore, that the problem is serious and really affects the whole country. On this basis, some questions arise. I'm very sorry that no one on the government's side has taken the matter seriously enough to at least stay here and give a meaningful answer in one or two sentences. I'm going to ask you these questions, if nothing else, for the record. What, though, does the government intend to do in order to compensate for government budget deficits in the wage mass resulting from the compulsory wage increase and the diversion of the statutory salary base? There is also the question that if the amendment of Jobbik or anyone to remedy this unsustainable situation comes before Parliament, the local governments can count on the help of the Hungarian people to help the government. Can any settlement count on the government's help? I hope someday the settlements will get an answer. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-20-283	Thank you. Mr Ander Balázs applied for a speech after the next agenda: today is the Day of Social Justice. I don't suppose you've noticed the government's address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-02-20-284	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2007, a resolution was taken by the UN which made this day a world day. They've remembered this since 2009. The fact is that such a world day can be used in many different ways, let us say that an extreme liberal would certainly feel the urge to be hysterical because I do not have non-neutral bathrooms in Hungary. But we could also bring up huge injustices in the world, according to which - the Oxfam Institute says - in 2016 the wealth of the 62 richest people in the world was as large as the total wealth of half the world's population, i.e. 3.5 billion people. Then, by the beginning of 2017, it was modified so that already eight of the richest people had the wealth of these 3.5 billion people. But it would also be possible to look here in the Carpathian Basin for social injustice, for example, in the case of our national brothers living in torn areas, who have lived in oppression since Trianon, and then my fellow Member Szávay will certainly speak in his next statement about the repression that Hungarians in Ukraine, Transcarpathia, will face. This question is particularly important when I add that tomorrow is the World Mother tongue Day. But to remain at the reading of the original UN resolution, which said the fight against poverty and the right to normal, decent work, this was the original aspect of this world day, let us look at the figures on how Hungary stands in this respect. Yeah, not so good. If we look at the 27 years since the change of regime, the lost 8 and 7 years here, then it should be said that there are very, very serious problems with regard to social justice in Hungary. While, during such a period, let's say, South Korea, which was much worse than Hungary in the early sixties, did not even reach half the Ghanaian level in terms of GDP per capita, could emerge from the third world in 27 years and could become one of the world's leading states of economic development, Hungary's downfall, social differences and the distance to the West grew. There are terrifying numbers, because if, let us say, we look at the basic truth that work is the main organizing power of society, then very many people in Hungary are forced to face the infinitely unfair situation that, despite working with bloody sweat, they do not come from one to the other, they do not experience the happy state of progress and progress, and it is quite difficult to imagine greater injustice. In 2015, KSH didn't even announce the calculation of the minimum of living, instead others did it, and in 2015 Hungary had HUF 88 thousand per person the amount required for one month, which provided the minimum of living. Otherwise, it was impossible to move on from this, and it really only allowed us to live from today to tomorrow. Who was affected by this? The 200 thousand public workers, the 900 thousand people employed in the public sector, one eighth or one quarter of the more than 3 million people employed in the competition sector. If that's the case, 27 percent of the total employment. If we break this down to the level of households and families, then we see that there was more than 40 percent of those living below the minimum living level, and if we also look at whether these families and households raised children, then the picture is even more horrific. In Hungary, six out of ten children are forced to grow up in a family below the minimum living age, or in a family with such material means. He sees his parents working, but they don't get one-on-one, so that's the huge injustice that the past eight and seven years have thrown at us. You can also see how: in Hungary there is a sociopathic, neoliberal economic concept, according to which the key to our ability to attract capital is to lower wages and reduce workers' rights. With this in mind, this flexible labour market slogan has been used to break up workers' rights, workers' rights, and we have been depraved into a country that can no longer view Poland or Slovakia as its competitor, but unfortunately has to compete with Romania and Bulgaria. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-20-285	Thank you. To speak after the next agenda, István Szávay, Member of the European Parliament, has applied:, Another anti-Hungarian laws are expected in Ukraine. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-02-20-286	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, I have spoken on several occasions about the deteriorating situation in Transcarpathia, both in the Parliament and in the Committee on National Inclusion. We are not only aware of the situation of Transcarpathian Hungarians, but we also experience it every day through our local members and sympathizers. The war in East Ukraine, which has been raging for almost three years, is inexorably consuming Ukraine's already scarce resources. In the wake of the bloody sister war, millions of people have already been forced to leave their homeland to live a decent life abroad. Dear Parliament, These serious difficulties weigh heavily on the defenceless Transcarpathian Hungarian community in the battle of the gigantics, which slowly but surely loses its intellectual leadership, teachers, skilled workers, but also its schoolchildren and university students. Undoubtedly, and every time, it is recognised that the Hungarian government is trying to support the survival of the Transcarpathian Hungarians in a number of ways. We, of course, agree with this far, even if we sometimes make serious criticisms on practical matters. At the same time, it is also a fact that a number of drafts have been submitted in recent months in the Kiev legislature, which would narrow down the already not too wide language and education rights in Ukraine, and would make the use of Hungarian languages and the teaching of Hungarian language impossible if they were adopted in Transcarpathia. Despite the fact that last year, with the support of Budapest, a statue of one of the largest Ukrainian poets, Tarasz Shevchenko, was inaugurated in Beregszász, and the Hungarian government has supported Ukraine's accession to the European Union by all means, but we believe that in a faulty way it supports Ukraine's accession to the European Union unconditionally. Ladies and gentlemen, Last autumn, the Ukrainian Constitutional Court began to negotiate a protest against the Ukrainian language law in force since 2012 by a group of representatives from Kiev. Although the case has not yet been decided, everyone in Transcarpathia agrees that, despite all the imperfections of the 2012 language law, it provides at least a viable framework for the use of the Hungarian language and for teaching in Hungarian, and its abolition would have disastrous consequences in all areas of life. [[21.30]] In recent months, several draft laws on language use and education have also come to light, which would eliminate the possibility of using regional languages, including the Hungarian language. The authors of these proposals would make the use of the Ukrainian language exclusive by saying that, according to everyday experience, politicians, high-ranking state officials, public figures, businessmen, celebrities, social athletes in Ukraine are unable to speak Ukrainian to the press, as their mother tongue is Russian. The drafts before rada would raise the threshold for minority language from 10 to 30-33 percent currently in force, and even if this severely restrictive condition were met, it would only be possible to use minority languages, while the current language law guaranteed language use if the threshold was reached. Unparalleled restrictions would cover all areas of life, for example, all media products in minority language should appear in Ukrainian. But there are also such impossibilitys in some of the drafts that it would be mandatory to interpret the theatre plays performed in minority language in Ukrainian in a synchronized manner. And the absurd provisions would be checked by tongue chimes, and serious fines would be required for those who break them. In addition, a draft law on education published by the Ukrainian Ministry of Education and already adopted by Parliament at first reading would significantly reduce education in Hungarian. From kindergarten to universities, you could only learn ethnic language where you live in a particular ethnicity block, which is missing from Ukrainian law on the one hand, thus allowing wide interpretation possibilities and thus narrowing the law, on the other hand you immediately exclude Hungarian teaching in the sporadic. Dear fellow Members, The Hungarian parties in Transcarpathia raised their voice together, strengthening each other, and collecting signatures together against the attack on the harsh narrowing of the language use of Transcarpathian Hungarians and the widespread cuts of their educational rights. The Hungarian government, compared to the smile diploma of the János Martonyi-Németh Zsolt-éra, expressed a somewhat greater determination on the issue. By the way, I'm sorry that no one from the government is here to respond to what has been said. Dear Parliament, Jobbik is on the side of the people, so by expressing the request of the Hungarian Republic of Transcarpathia, we strongly demand the Hungarian Government to act with greater determination against the unacceptable and foreign restriction of the language law and educational rights to the European Union. We will not accept any cuts in the rights already acquired in any foreign region, and we will work in Transcarpathia as soon as possible to extend them and ensure territorial autonomy in cooperation with all interested parties. Thank you for listening. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-02-20-287	Member István Ikotity applied for the last speech after the last agenda: . When the government will finally hear the voice of those on the care fee. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-02-20-288	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We talk little about the care fee in Parliament, even though tens of thousands of people care for their disabled, seriously ill or helpless elderly family members at home, taking on the responsibility of the state that they have no other income. I asked Mr. Bence Rétvári here in Parliament more than a year ago whether the situation of those on the care fee was improving. The answer was essentially that the government had already helped these people. Well, that's obviously not true. As is known, the care fee is a monthly cash benefit provided to a disabled person who is a permanently ill relative. According to the latest available data, in 2015 around 53,000 persons received a care fee with the right of the subject in Hungary. What you can tell from research on these people is that three quarters of them are women, typically in their 40s and 50s. They perform active care tasks around the well-groomed person every 6-9 hours a day, such as dressing, feeding, diapers, shooting. Half of those who are cared for require 24-hour supervision. We also know that three quarters of the people who received the care fee worked before receiving the care fee, currently only 22 percent of the people doing paid work in addition to their care activities, at least on an occasional basis. Nevertheless, their personal income, including care premiums, work incomes and other nursing allowances, is about HUF 40,000. The median per capita income in the households of those receiving care is 50,000 forints. One third of those who receive care are living in income poverty, two thirds of whom are deprivied, almost half of whom are severely depriviated. The current basic care fee, which remains after the deduction of pension contributions, amounts to HUF 27 900. The person caring for a child under 18 years of age who is permanently ill or severely disabled is entitled to do so. The premium will amount to HUF 42 525 net, and this is due to those who care for people with an increased need for care, who are severely disabled. Finally, there is a special care fee which is entitled to a person who is not able to provide self-sufficiency or can only be assisted by a caregiver or a person who is entitled to a higher family allowance due to serious illness or disability. The sum is the highest, but still only HUF 50 220 net, 180 percent of the basic amount. Until April 2015, there was also a supply called the Fair Care Fee, which was provided by the municipalities. However, from that date the provision of care at this address ceased, and it is up to the municipalities to decide whether to grant such municipal support to the sick, elderly relatives. More than 8,000 previously received such care premiums, but it was also stated in the government's research that some of the settlements had abolished this support. Therefore, those who are seriously ill, elderly, unable to take care of their mother or father at home have a good chance that they will not receive any care, and they will still have to pay the health care contribution of HUF 7110. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the government cannot say that it has solved the problems of caregivers and caregivers at home, as long as these people receive such shamefully little, even lower care than public work. In many cases home care means hard physical work and, not least, care for which the state pays much higher per head in the host institutions it maintains. To do so, the support of those on care fees does not, at best, amount to public work, i.e. condemning those involved to certain poverty. The government study quoted above also states that home care is typically not chosen for a living. Before nursing, the number of people who received care was 71 percent, and only 8 percent were unemployed before receiving the care allowance. 90 percent of them want to return to the labour market, they also have the average in terms of school education, with only 22 percent of those with basic education. The present unworthy situation is untenable. We're looking at two options. Either home care is recognised as an employment relationship by the state and provides minimum wage for the work of caregivers, or transforms home care into a service that allows family members to pay for the near-home provision of professional care providers, even with public support. Which direction does the government intend to take? Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-02-20-289	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 9:38 p.m.]] Insidious Dezső s. k.
