u2017-02-27-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, I salute my fellow Members, our colleagues and all those who monitor our work. The 4th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Nándor Gúr will be in charge of the meeting. Dear Parliament, We will begin our work with speeches before the agenda today, from 11:50 a.m. to 13:20 a.m. for questions, and then from approximately 13:20 a.m. to 14:20 a.m. for immediate questions and answers, and we will conclude the Parliament's session with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Mr Bertalan Tóth, Head of the Group, on behalf of the MSZP, applied for a pre-meeting address:. The word of the people. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2017-02-27-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Prime Minister is a coward, the Fidesz government is a coward. He is afraid of his opinion on the real problems of Hungarian people, he does not dare to face the fact that the majority of Hungarian people are not buying the problems he created, while the real problems are. No wonder the Prime Minister's cowardice, as he spent 20 billion forints on the quota vote, the majority of Hungarians said no to the false policies of Fidesz and Jobbik by staying home. But when Fidesz wanted to introduce an Internet tax, people were outraged, the government ran away. When Fidesz closed the shops on Sunday, he sent bald people to socialist politicians, and after the success of our referendum initiative, the pants were full, he fled cowardly again. And now that a movement has organized a successful collection of signatures for the Olympics, it's back to being a coward again. The Prime Minister said that we saved the country from serious shame and humiliation. Ladies and gentlemen, What would have been the real shame? The referendum? How could it have turned out that people weren't on the government's side? And who would have been discredited after a referendum? Doesn't the Prime Minister always conduct his own actions at the will of the people? I do not think it is a serious shame if people want to express their views directly and their will on a socially important, economically important issue. It's a real shame if the government wants to stop this by all means. It is a serious shame that social differences have continued to increase during Urizing Fidesz governance, and wealth inequalities have increased. Hungary's competitiveness continues to deteriorate, and we are constantly breaking down not only in relation to the EU-core countries, but also in relation to the Visegrad countries. The serious shame is that one in four Hungarian children is functionally illiterate, and the school system preserves this social difference. There are systemic problems in health care, because while there's money for expensive propaganda, not for regular cleaning. Ladies and gentlemen, Instead of real problems, the government fights with background powers and world governments. Just recently, we heard the words of President György Matolcsy, that a NATO member, a great state, organised a coup against the Hungarian government, by trying to create a bank panic in connection with the broker scandals. Come on, fellow Members. It was simply that fidesz brokers stole the Hungarian small investors' money. Ladies and gentlemen, While Fidesz and the Prime Minister run away cowardly, we socialists want to deal with the real problems of Hungarian people. The real problem with the future of Hungarian people is the HUF 3000 billion Russian loan, which owes the country 21 years and provides Hungary with Russian interests. The MSZP maintains its position in previous years that the use of nuclear energy must be decided by referendum after a wide-ranging social debate. For this reason, the MSZP supports any initiative aimed at making a direct decision by the Hungarian people on such a far-reaching issue. Ladies and gentlemen, You can see that the Prime Minister is cornered. Let's not wait until 2018. For our future, for Hungary! Thank you for your attention.
u2017-02-27-2	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the government, Mr. Csaba Dömötör will answer. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Let's hear it!]]
u2017-02-27-3	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Chief of Staff, I listened to your speech with interest. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: I don't think so!]] especially from the point of view of whether you will apologize to the voters, as László Botka did [[Zoltán Grumpy: You should... Ágnes Kunhalmi: Consider it pointless!]] a large speech or speech a week ago. László Botka apologized for disappointing the voters. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: Take an example of it! You can take an example.]] Although you have not apologized here, I would like to say that László Botka is right: there is something to apologize to the MSZP for. You mentioned the issue of public debt, and it hit my ear. [[Proud Zoltán: State debt? He didn't even talk about it!]] Still, it is strange to learn from a party whose governance increased from 53 percent to more than 80 percent. [[Interjection from the lines of the MSZP: Listen to what he has said and answer that.]] public debt. If it's up to you, we're still moaning IMF loans and the country as a whole. [[Zoltán Grimlock: The Russian loan is much better!]] You're talking about health care by making health care pay. If you're really interested [[And now it's free?]] the fate of health care, you would have mentioned that doctors' wages are up by 207 thousand forints and nurses by 65%. What you have shown is a proposal for paying health care. [[Zoltán Grimlock: 50 percent wage increase!]] The MSZP refers to the importance of education, but otherwise forgets that many schools have been closed during the MSZP administration [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] I would also like to remind you that, compared to 2010, a high school student in Hungary has twice as much resources. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Where did you get that? Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Which movie are you watching?]] But what's more facial toaster: you're talking about corruption, while today we know that in the case of subway 4, practically one third of a 400 billion investment was stolen. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: There wouldn't be a subway four if they took that money! Think, Mr. Secretary.]] and this is demonstrated by the OLAF report. If it were even a little important to fight corruption, you and László Botka would have named those responsible. Don't continue here, I ask you, the worst Bajnai Gordon tradition, don't claim you weren't there, and you haven't been on subway 4. [[Zoltán Haughty: I don't! Ágens Kunhalmi: I travel!]] Congressman Haughty hasn't traveled yet. Try it. Little is known about what the MSZP would otherwise do for the country, but what we know is more than serious. We know, for example, that the left would abolish home-building subsidies. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: Where did you get this?]] They made that clear. We know that I would be drastically raising taxes again. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Can you see that from the top of the helicopter?]] They're talking about a multi-key income tax system, and I see from the statements that they're flirting with the idea of property taxes and property taxes. [[Interview from the ranks of MSZP: Luxury tax for yachts!]] We remember well what it was like to have a 38 percent key in Hungary. The left didn't learn anything, and it would break the middle class again. [[The helicopter will be taxed, that's for sure!]] even the tax would be taxed on the left. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: And this is written for you in advance?]] [[11.10]] But what is most serious, this is the most serious, it is clear that the left wants a aid-based economy again instead of a work-based economy. That is what many of their proposals are about. I would like to tell you, I would like to remind you that in 2010, 550 thousand people applied for some kind of aid in Hungary, which is now well below 200,000. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP, including: More poor people!]] The MSZP would return to this era and want to jump into the past. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Honourable Congressman, These plans, these left-wing plans, they're terrible, they're like stabs in the back. The MSZP would stab the country in the back again as they stabbed the Olympic tender in the back. We will not allow this, and we will fight with double force for Hungary's further strengthening. Thank you for listening. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP, including Dr. László Varga: Well, that was quite limited. That wasn't aggressive enough. We want Rogan back.]]
u2017-02-27-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, On behalf of Jobbik's group, Mr László Lukács also applied for a speech before the agenda:. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-02-27-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent days, government parties have had to be friends with a lot of bitter experiences. The most bitter of these was perhaps the failure of the Olympic tender. This bitterness may have inspired János Lázár to rush out at the end of last week, saying that he wanted to distribute the money of the Olympic tender on a territorial basis to the detriment of someone and to the benefit of someone. We tell John Lazarus and others like him that where a door closes, a new one will open. Think about it when the door to the Olympic tender is closed, when the resources available are released, where to spend. I believe that this opens up an opportunity to use this money, not on a territorial basis, not at the expense of someone and for the benefit of someone, but for the benefit of all people, such as education or even health care. After all, the question of how the Hungarian health system stands today is important. So we can say that the essence of spending Olympic money is not territoriality, but the order of the importance of cases, in which the order is clear: the vast majority of people want to spend more money on health care. You can say it calmly: because the Hungarian state has spent a record little on health care so far. For the past 27 years, the worst damage was in health care. You can safely say that the number of beds has decreased, where you can heal in Hungary. In fact, fewer and fewer people are entering the healing field, and fewer and fewer people are choosing the profession that will otherwise create only one million new jobs across Europe in the coming period. In fact, we can say that European Union comparisons show that Hungary is one of the worst places in the EU ranking in the quality of health. So the order is clear, and it doesn't take an expert to see that there are serious health problems. People see it the same way, and people have even given evidence of it. In the real national consultation launched by Jobbik, which is perhaps the largest public opinion poll of the last eight years in the field of health, half a million people have expressed their views on four issues that are very important for health. Eight out of the ten respondents say that the Hungarian health situation has deteriorated. In fact, 9 out of 10 people say that every form of gratuity money should be punished, along with its enforcement. In fact, in Hungary's largest health poll, in the real national consultation, 9 out of 10 people feel that the lengths of waiting lists have not decreased at all. This shows that most of the people, the overwhelming majority of them, half a million people believe that the Olympic funds should be spent on health care in Hungary. The resources, Mr. Secretary of State, seem sufficient. If we do not think, as János Lázár thought, that it is a country or Budapest, we can safely say that there is plenty for the countryside, and there is plenty for Budapest. The list of hospital developments, the intention, the list of improvements to be carried out is available. If we look at only this, the development needs in Budapest are covered by the budget of the company managing the tender in Budapest and, for example, can be paid for such as the development of overnight surgery at St. Margaret's Hospital or, for example, the purchase of a new X-ray machine and X-ray equipment at Nyírő Gyula Hospital. In itself, it can also be seen and well tracked that Hungarian health care needs development in Hungary not only in Budapest but also in the countryside. As funds have been allocated to the countryside in recent years, now Pest must be the source of funds, and besides all that, the countryside must also be able to develop. To sum up, it is safe to say that Jobbik, as opposed to János Lázár, believes that Olympic resources should not be distributed on a territorial basis, not to the benefit of others, but to the benefit of all of us. The freeing resources of the Olympics must be distributed not to landlords, but to the people, to the people, according to their needs. People have made it clear that on the four issues set out in the real national consultation, which concern waiting lists, gratuity money, the situation of workers and overall the quality of health care, it is clear that money should be spent on health care. The people's voice is clear, and the resources released from the Olympics must be spent on health care, i.e. the stepchild of the government. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Once an opportunity has been closed, with the Olympic tender, an opportunity has been closed. [[The president's ringing again.]] [[The president's ringing again.]] Ladies and gentlemen, another door opened. This door is for health care. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-27-6	Let's go this way. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President.
u2017-02-27-7	Thank you very much, Congressman Luke. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, on behalf of the government, will have the opportunity to respond. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You have made a large number of EU comparisons here, and we know for a fact that you have quite old experience in EU comparison. A long way from the work of its representatives, you showed the payroll of doctors in your family business to Hungarian doctors in other EU or Arab countries and convinced them to go abroad and work abroad. He stood up the same way, put on his suit, tied his tie, and convinced medical workers how much more they were making and going there. [[The intervention of Dr. László György Lukács.]] I do not think that I know exactly the inner mysteries of this business, but I do not think that I would volunteer for altruism, who do this, this activity, but I am sure that they too have benefited financially from the fact that Hungarian health benefits. The business of which you were a member, honourable Member, has profited from the fact that you have made your income worse in the situation of Hungarian health care by taking Hungarian doctors and medical workers abroad, and, as I believe, you have already been well-known and proud to report in a newspaper that you have managed to get 62 doctors and medical workers to Ireland alone. That is why you are such a professional in EU comparison Because in his previous life he was happy to get doctors abroad, and he was a little bit like SZDSZ, because he wanted to live well from what was bad for Hungarian health. They wanted to do this by privatisation, and you wanted to do it by sending Hungarian doctors abroad. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Secretary of State, we are talking about hospitals with state reservations.]] [[11.20]] And you can't really see that where Jobbik has the opportunity to do something for health care, because in the municipalities it has the opportunity to do so, what would you do there, what would be better there. Do you know how much we had to help out health care at the end of the year in Oz, just like we did everywhere else in the country? We gave 297 million extra resources to the hospital in Ozd. I trust you will be able to produce some kind of results in Ozd. We have provided these money everywhere, in every case, to every hospital, including the hospital in Ozd with this HUF 297 million. And fortunately, there is a very large surplus of which healthcare can farm. But let me mention one thing first. With today's speech, you and Jobbik joined the anti-Olympian camp that apparently didn't even know the Olympic development plans, because if you knew, you would know how many dormitory seats would have been created, how much health capacity, bridge and others would have been built, which would have meant some progress, more security, more development for all Hungarians in Budapest and Hungary. You talk about this as if none of these had been created, and the Olympic plans were a very important part of educational developments, health improvements and infrastructure improvements that would have remained here in Hungary for the benefit of everyone. As you know about the sources of health, honourable Member, because you voted against it in the debate on the budget - you must know it and you voted against it - that the health budget will increase by half a percent of GDP from last year to this year. We spend half a percent of GDP on health this year more than we spent last year. The Jobbik faction may be a bit at odds with numbers, because you are, for example, a survey launched by your own questionnaireist, not by your own, but by a NGO, but also well-known in detail by the Jobbiks, which we do not know how generous Hungarian large entrepreneurs have made, but perhaps they will tell us, well, about the data of this survey, you say that half a million, the leader of the factions in front of you, sometimes says that 200,000 people sent it back. So you're at odds with the numbers, but I'd like to tell you that 1500 billion of the Health Insurance Fund is already over 2,000 billion, so this year you'll be able to manage from a much bigger source. Each year, the budget for the health fund has increased over inflation, and we intend to continue to do so in the coming years. You know very well, and in your speech you pointed out that rural hospitals were able to regenerate well from the large health development of HUF 500 billion, both in primary care and in hospitals. What you are saying, honourable Member, - I see that you are still at war with the numbers - is spent specifically on hospitals, infrastructure, and another HUF 100 billion of equipment procurement, as well as further basic supply, rescue station and similar improvements. Overall, they amount to 500 billion, especially in the context of rural development. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-27-8	And if you mention the waiting lists, why don't you mention about the waiting lists, that this year's budget will spend HUF 5 billion on reducing the waiting lists, which the entire Jobbik fraction voted off? Why does it not mention that there is a framework for wage increases that has almost never been the case since the change of regime, since doctors have increased their salary by HUF 100 plus HUF 107 thousand, or HUF 207 thousand, which is one of the most important steps in the fight against gratuity money. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-27-9	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group, applied to speak before the agenda on the victims of Communist dictatorships. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader. Mr President, Dear House, We celebrated on Saturday, and, I'm sorry, we remembered the victims of communist dictatorships. This event forces us to take a look at the time and the people who lived then. Whom should we remember? So let us remember, first of all, those who gave their lives during this period - and we bow our heads to them with respect. But we also think of those whose freedom was in danger or whose way of life was broken in two, but they had to live in fear for years and even decades. And why did this happen? Because they lived in another social class or because they had a different view of the world. Either their political convictions were different or their religious beliefs, and they did not want to give up that belief, even if they had to keep quiet about it. [[Sallai R. Benedek: KDNP is having people like you sitting in KDNP right now!]] But if we see the causes behind the events and the victims, then we certainly need to ask the ideology and the people who, in possession of this ideology, have come close to power. What were these people like? I'll get back to you on that, Congressman, definitely. These perpetrators were representatives of an ideology, representatives of the ideology of XX. It was one of the crazy ideas of the century. And those who were representatives of this have demonstrated a deficiency that would mean respect for human dignity and respect for personal freedom, because that was lacking in their lives. Obviously, there is a reason for this, but I do not want to point out psychological reasons that within the personality there has been a lack of inner freedom, a freedom that is one of man's greatest gifts, to which compliance with standards is part. But in many cases, the line between the victim and the perpetrator has been blurred. There is a story that many of us may know: a six - childed father was put in prison, and in order to see his family when he got out, they had him sign a paper. After all, this paper had such consequences that he did nothing that would harm anyone else, but after they had given up on this man's recruitment, he was forced to do hard physical work despite his degree, and in the end he had to leave public life humiliated. That's the border where victim and perpetrator are blurted. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: We should publish the files.]] Then we could talk about the 800,000 people who were members of the state party. They either did this out of careerism or conviction, but they may not need to be mentioned among the perpetrators. Here I must turn to my fellow Member's kind remark on the fact that there are former party members in the ranks of the KDNP. Maybe there are, but I wasn't. I'll give Jobbik a moment of patience. Someone on the left once figured out that I was part of the state party. I've never been! And who took over the lyrics? The far right, because it made them curious. But these things, small-time lies happen in the world of politics. But that's not the question. The question is whether we can respectfully remember the victims of the communist dictatorship, and the kind of behaviour that at that time led many people to put their freedom, even hundreds of millions of people around the world who gave their lives, never do that. And the phenomena that are sometimes present today are no longer functioning with the means of dictatorship, but with different finer means, but are definitely at the expense of human dignity and freedom. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-27-10	Thank you for your attention.
u2017-02-27-11	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will answer. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Ronald Reagan said it was a communist who read Marx and Lenin and the anti-communist who understood Marx and Lenin. It was indeed a fitting sentence of those who defeated the Communist Soviet dictatorship. Since 2000, since the period of the first Orbán government, we have remembered on 25 February the Memorial Day of the victims of the Communist dictatorship the many, many of our compatriots who have been victims of this system. A parliamentary resolution records this day and this memorial. [[11.30]] Around the world, as Mr. Group Leader has pointed out, nearly a hundred million people can be called victims of communist terror. In Hungary, if you look at them in different ways, you can see that if you look at the people dragged to the gulag, 800,000 of our compatriots have been taken away, which means that every twelve Hungarians have been dragged to the gulag. If we were to tie the trains from Hungary to the gulag behind one another, we would see a train train train from Székesfehérvár to Debrecen, so long was the column that was carried away for years to the camp of the Gupvi to the Málenki robot, the gulag. And of the 800,000 of our countrymen who were sentenced without judgment without sin, 200,000 never returned home. This ratio is even higher if I look at, say, the Transcarpathian Hungarians, because not every 12th, but every 5 Hungarians were taken there. There really is no family there that has not been affected as a victim of the Communist dictatorship. When I look at the number of B-listers, in 46-48, 80,000 people were cut off from their future. If I'm looking at a lay-off wave in two months, 50,000 people have been eliminated existentially. When I look at civil society organisations, they've disbanded all of them, one and a half thousand civil society organizations. In 1950, the order of the monks joined with little exception. In 1951 13 670 people and 2,500 families were deployed from Budapest. The Hortobágy deported, the number of deportees there is close to 15,000. Between 1950 and 53, 1300 people were taken to the working camp in Recsk. If we look at who was prosecuted by the Communist government at that time, we can see that the numbers are so high that they are not only nobles and lords of the country, but most of them were working peasants. From 50 to 53 the prosecutors filed criminal proceedings against 1 million people from the Hungarian population at the time. Of this, 650 thousand indictments were dealt with in the courts, and 390,000 were condemned. As a result of the 1956 revolution, 2 thousand people died as heroes, 20,000 wounded, 350 were executed, 22,000 of our countrymen were imprisoned, 13 thousand interned, and 200,000 fled the country. And this is not yet a complete list of the victims of the communist dictatorship in Hungary. That is why the commemorative years announced by the government, the Gulág Memorial Year and the 56 commemorative year are important. The Gulág Memorial Year ended exactly at the end of the week, on 25 February, the government supported 600 applications for HUF 1.5 billion in 250 settlements across the country. The purpose of the Gulag Memorial Year was not to remain a Hungarian settlement from which our fellow citizens were dragged to the gulag, but there would not be a plaque, a memorial or any other moment about it, this scar would not be fixed. This has been achieved, and many other filmmaking and memorial exhibition plans have also been successful. On the day yesterday, we replaced another shortage in Budapest when, at a section of Hungária körút, at Ferencváros railway station, Minister Zoltán Balog, President of the Gulág Memorial Committee, inaugurated the memorial place of the victims who were dragged onto the Málenkíj robot, it was a worthy memorial. Thank you very much for being a member of the opposition parties who represented you there and attended this inauguration ceremony. Because we did make up for a great debt when this monument was created. I suggest you all go see him, take a look. I believe that on February 25th and other days, it is worth remembering our fellow countrymen who were carried on the Rálenki robot. This monument was created by the Communist Sins Foundation, and the Szorakér, the Federation of Slaves and Forced Workers to the Soviet Union also plans by the end of the year to renovate the monument of all the victims of the Communist dictatorship in the Liberty Square. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-27-12	In addition, in recent years, we have rejected the pension supplement for those who received it illegally in the communist dictatorship, together with Rumány Rezső and Béla Biszku. The government also decided to double the pension supplement for the victims of the Communist dictatorship this year and next year, in two steps, thus also providing some compensation for their suffering. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-27-13	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Erzsébet Schmuck, on behalf of the LMP, applied for a pre-meeting speech. What did people say? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me start by saying that at the end of the week was the Memorial Day for the victims of communism. Unfortunately, on this day, we must repeatedly draw attention to the fact that today we only know the victims, not the responsible ones. Therefore, the LMP will re-submit its proposal on the publicity of agent files, for the many times now, and we call on the government and the Prime Minister to pay tribute to the victims of communism instead of the ten billion-dollar commemorative years. Last week's special event was that the Prime Minister decided to withdraw Budapest's 2024 Olympic competition. The central propaganda started immediately, which gave rather confusing, contradictory explanations as to why they had to take this step, and why they did not wait for the people of Budapest to give their verdict in a referendum. But the explanation is very simple: most people simply don't want an Olympics. Fidesz is wrong to blame the failure of the Olympics on the opposition. The LMP has collected 33,000 signatures, and we've been on the streets for the last month, talking to thousands of people. We are very happy to share our experiences with the majority of governments and help the government understand what this collection of signatures was about and what people think of the Olympics. One of the most common opinions was this: we would rather spend all that money on hospitals; the state of hospitals is miserable, and I do not want an Olympics. These opinions also point to the fact that Fidesz saves on health care. People know that. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We've already introduced it.]] Only one data: 10,000 people are sick every year of colon cancer. Half of this could have been saved by appropriate screening tests. This is not what the national programme is going to do. That's not what they're spending money on. The emigration and low pay of doctors and nurses is cliché, but it is still true. Half-bluffing a new wage increase will help little and will not eliminate the withdrawal of funds from previous years. It was a common opinion to spend more on the poor. Fidesz left half the country on the side of the road, gave them up. The distance between the rich and the poor is growing rather than decreasing. It's getting harder to make a living. In recent years, the government has cut social security, frozen the wages of social workers, destroyed civil society organisations in the area. People know that, too. However, the overwhelming and emerging opinion was: I will not allow my grandchildren to be indebted. The water world has also increased by four times, and the line could continue. I mean, people don't believe the government, they don't believe that it's really designed for development, they don't believe that the costs could be kept, they don't believe that most of the money wasn't in the pockets of the already rich buddy. They also clearly have experience, ladies and gentlemen, that the Paks investment forced on the country is as disturbing to people as the Olympics are. Most people are strongly opposed to the investment in Paks, some people refer to the Russian influence, some are afraid of debt, some people are threatened by their sense of security, and some people say that time has simply passed over nuclear power. With regard to the expansion of the Paks nuclear power plant, it is clear that the government does not want a referendum, just as on the issue of the Olympics. He's covering up legal arguments as to why he can't. It is simply outrageous, honourable Members, that the Hungarian energy strategy cannot be decided by the Hungarian people by an international treaty and Russia over them and over them. We are convinced that Hungarian people have the right to decide whether they want to live with or without nuclear power in the long term. The investment in Paks will cost at least HUF 4000 billion. The investment in Paks is not primarily a technical issue, but an economic, energy policy and a deeply moral issue. It is a deeply moral issue because today there is no solution to the disposal of high-activity waste when it has thousands of years of degradation. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds: Yes!]]
u2017-02-27-14	The reason the government doesn't want a referendum on Paks is because he knows he'd lose. The LMP will use all possible legal and political means to ensure that the investment in Paks is not decided by Viktor Orbán and Vladimir Putin in a restricted meeting room, but by the Hungarian people. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-02-27-15	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, gives his opinion. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Me? You're kidding!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and One of the charms is that in connection with communist crimes, a man who himself had a serious position in the communist system is proposing and speaking in Parliament. [[Intercoms from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]] So we're going to handle it accordingly. [[11.40]] As far as the Olympics are concerned, the Olympics are a national issue for Budapest and Hungary, but an Olympics can only be successful if there is consensus on their support. I would also like to say to you that when the Metropolitan Assembly voted on this issue, the majority of left-wing parties supported this proposal, they said that the Olympics could be a very powerful catalyst for our economy, our faith. The left also said, "Return it," this is not a party political issue, it is a joint matter of the country. From this agreement, the left side backed out. If it weren't for agreement, the government, the capital, wouldn't even enter the tender. However, this agreement was betrayed by left-wing parties and turned national affairs into party affairs. The institution of the referendum is an important and good thing, and a majority could have been obtained in a referendum, but the success of an Olympic tender requires not a majority, but unity. This unit is not available because of the backstabbing of left-wing parties. You mentioned the issue of health care and the question of workers in the social sector. Please find out how much the wages of those working in the social sector increase in several steps. You seem to have missed that. You also missed the fact that there is a 500 billion-dollar development in health care, 207,000 increases in the wages of doctors and specialists, and 65 percent for nurses. If you have some time to listen to our answer, you should also pay attention to the fact that the colon cancer screening programs you mentioned have started, with the involvement of the general practitioners. As far as the Paks expansion is concerned, the expansion of the Paks nuclear power plant can greatly help to maintain the reduction of the costs and help to make electricity cheaper in Hungary. It's good for families, it's good for companies, and it can strengthen our industry. Once again, Paks expansion is a guarantee of a reduction in overhead. The construction of new blocks can also create new jobs in the order of tens of thousands. Developments in enlargement have been and will be reported by the government on a regular basis. If, by the way, you are interested in energy policy, I would like to point out to you the proposal bearing the name of the Brussels Energy Union, which would remove the right to set prices from the hands of the Member States, which would make it impossible for Hungary to set the price of electricity at a low level in the future. So if you'd like to address this issue, please pay attention to this. As far as the referendum is concerned, a referendum can be held on what legislation permits and which has sufficient social support. If the legislation permits and there is social support, then there will be a referendum on a matter if it is not allowed by law or there is no social support, and there will be no. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-27-16	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I am very sorry, by the way, that the LMP also joined those who stabbed the Olympics in the back for a moment's political gain. I consider all this to be a part of pre-election fight and competition, and overall, I am also very sorry that it looks like András Schiffer will be right, who, on his departure, spoke about the serious intention of pushing the LMP into the left-wing force field. That is why they participate in László Lengyel's casting, so that some of the party members do not even know about it, so they share an interview with Tamás Portik's helper, and that is why, among other things, they compete with the other left-wing parties in the tax raising plans. Their spirit is how left-wing parties fight before next year's election, but for their part, the government does not want to participate in this fight. Thank you for listening.
u2017-02-27-17	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck came forward on a case-by-case basis. I'm giving you the floor now. Here.
u2017-02-27-18	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. I would like to reject the slander of Secretary Csaba Dömötör. I have never held any positions in the MSZMP, I was the secretary of the Youth Environmental Council in the KISZ, and I have never held any positions in the KISZ. So I refuse your high-ranking or I don't know how high-ranking your claim is. [[István Szávay to Csaba Dömötör: The Tasnádi sat in the same chair as you now sit!]] Thank you very much, Congresswoman. This concludes this part of the speeches.
u2017-02-27-19	Mr Richárd Hörcsik, on behalf of Fidesz, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. Agents' organisations are once again working on Hungary in Brussels. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, One of the Committees of the European Parliament is holding an hour-long debate in Brussels this afternoon, and I quote: "The State of Fundamental Rights in Hungary." With the help of the friends of the left-wing Hungary in Brussels, we have seen that Hungary has been tried many times in recent years. So we could say that the soap opera continues, but it's just the usual outdated record. Since no one listens to them at home, they will try their luck abroad in this matter as well. However, if we look more closely at the agenda for today's hearing, fellow Members, we see that the left will not be the main character here, but the other three organisations. The situation is that in the role of the accuser, not just Tibor Szanyi or Péter Niedermüller, but Amnesty International, the Company for Freedom Rights and the Hungarian Helsinki Committee. Contrary to the common misunderstanding, these are not real NGOs, we are talking about offices of international organisations in Hungary, and activists paid with foreign money, so we can safely say that we are talking about foreign agents. Ladies and gentlemen, It is rumored that these three organisations want to present the situation of fundamental rights in Hungary through a convicted terrorist case known this afternoon as Ahmed H. I would like to remind my fellow Members that Ahmed H. is the Syrian man who has recently been sentenced by the Hungarian court to ten years in prison for acts of terrorism and other crimes, because, as we saw on the television screen at the time, he encouraged the masses of illegal migrants at the border to throw stones at police officers protecting the border and break through the fence. By the way, against this court order, another such agency, MigSzol, organized a protest after the verdict. MigSzol is clearly a member of György Soros' immigration support network, whose information on its management and operation is otherwise not transparent. In any case, it is certain that almost all members of the Soros network will be included as cooperating partners in the information material published by you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have seen that the cross-border empire of György Soros reaches Hungary, and a number of organisations calling themselves civilians receive money to deliver hundreds of thousands of migrants in Europe. They do this despite the fact that the citizens clearly expressed their intention not to do so in the October referendum, ladies and gentlemen. These organisations therefore regularly attack our country, such as the government's border and anti-terrorist measures, the strengthening of immigration rules. They're on Ahmed H's side, and we're on the side of the Hungarian people. Ladies and gentlemen, It is no coincidence that the debate in the Hungarian Parliament has barely begun to strengthen the legal border closure, and the pro-immigration organizations have launched Hungary's attack with renewed force. Don't be surprised, this is not surprising, because these organisations have been attacking the construction of the border lock from the outset, the tightening of immigration and anti-terrorist rules. And that is what they are doing now: they are attacking, and in Brussels again, so to speak, they are pressing charges against Hungary. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-27-20	Dear Secretary of State, Therefore, every citizen, I believe, has the right to know what kind of political agency organisations operate from foreign sources and how much support they receive. I believe that it is in the common interest of all of us, honourable Members, to prevent the inaccessible attempts at foreign influence and to protect the Hungarian people from them. Thank you for listening.
u2017-02-27-21	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the government, Mr. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, gives his thoughts. [[11.50]] Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, The fact that the left has again put Hungary's issue on the agenda in the European Parliament proves that in the months ahead, we must expect tough debates not only with Brussels but also with the Hungarian left. The subject that you have been talking about, for example, will be one of the controversial issues in relation to immigration. This is another reason for the government to consult citizens on these matters, which is why it decided to initiate a national consultation. Five issues will certainly be included in the national consultation. The first issue concerns energy policy. This issue is relevant because there is a proposal in Brussels - the title of the Energy Union - and on this basis the European Union would remove the issue of price setting from the hands of the Member States. This step would mean that there would be no cost reduction. So we need government decisions here, which is why this issue is included in the consultation series. Addressing the migration crisis is another issue. We remember well that only in 2015 and a half million people arrived in Europe. A large number of illegal immigrants cheat out poor EU regulations and move freely within the European Union without otherwise having reached a decision on their asylum applications. Many terrorist assassins took advantage of this incomplete regulation when they committed a bloody assassination. The Government would therefore like to strengthen the legal border closure in addition to strengthening the physical border closure, which is why it has tabled a corresponding bill, the debate of which has already begun in Parliament. By the way, it is very talkative that this bill is already being strongly attacked by international organisations funded from abroad. Thirdly, as far as transparency is concerned, we are faced with the problem of the support of a number of political activist groups from abroad that use it for an attempt to gain influence. We don't really know, it's not very transparent how much money we're talking about, but significant amounts. For this reason, the government is now examining the possibility of ensuring greater transparency in this area. There is a well-functioning American example. I would also like to say to you that a law has been in force in the United States since 1938, under which so-called foreign agents have to register themselves and report every six months to the Ministry of Justice there. Fourth and fifthly, fiscal policy and instruments for job creation should be kept in national competence. We can all well remember the international criticisms it received when the government decided, for example, to drastically reduce corporate tax. I think it would be good for the opposition to take a stand on these issues, because they all touch on the issue of sovereignty. These objectives are all about maintaining and strengthening national self-determination, one by one. We do not want Brussels, just as it did on immigration and quotas, to override Member States' powers by stealth legislation. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-27-22	This is what the new national policy is all about. Thank you for listening.
u2017-02-27-23	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr István Tiba to present the list of speakers after the agenda.
u2017-02-27-24	Dear Parliament, Péter Hoppál, Fidesz; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; István Apáti, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik. Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now, at 11:53 p.m., we will begin to discuss questions and immediate questions. I would like to inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is the Rules of Procedure 121. Paragraph 4 (a), point 124. By exercising its powers extended by paragraph 1 of Section 1 of the Act, he rejected the following questions because they are not part of the government's remit: Mr Zoltán Magyar Jobbikós, Member K/13819. Mr Bernadett Szél LMP Member and Mr István Ikotity LMP Member K/14157. The oral question.
u2017-02-27-25	Now, Honourable Parliament, Sándor Szabó, a representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What help does the government intend to provide to families who have lost their homes after the eviction moratorium has expired? It's an address. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I'm guessing Secretary of State will answer. As you know, on March 1, 2017, the eviction moratorium will cease, and families with no fault of their own will no longer be safe, for example because they cannot pay their house loans, so the banks will start to auction their family property. Of course, I note in parentheses that if Lajos Kósa does not beat the forint that you prefer to keep silent, then it is not certain that this is the problem for foreign exchange lenders. Returning to the question, last year, according to the Faculty of Executives of the Court, more than 2,000 people have already lost their homes. This is a drastic increase compared to previous years. I am sure that a lot of families are aware that eviction moratorium is not a solution, but a kind of delay, but there are many families who, during this time, cannot deal with banks or solve their later housing problems. We also see that the KDNP's miracle weapon, the family bankruptcy system, has failed. By the way, Péter Harrach acknowledged this because he is constantly initiating a review of the law. Implementation of the law is difficult. The application, the filling out of the application form itself, is complicated, and the condition is such that many families have problems, so it is no wonder that less than 500 people made use of this solution last autumn.
u2017-02-27-26	Since the government is constantly saying that solving the problems of people with house loans is a top priority, housing is the most important asset for families, so I respectfully ask the Secretary of State whether the government is prepared to lose their homes by 1 March. My second question is what concrete solution or assistance the government intends to offer to families who have lost their homes without their own faults. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-02-27-27	Thank you, Congressman Szabo. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Ouch! Ouch! Ouch! Not again!]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Those who were in such a situation without their own fault were often put in this situation because of your fault, Congressman. , since we should not forget what statements were made in connection with foreign exchange lending from the then MSZP-SZDSZ government, how the then forint loans were taken down from revenge between 2002 and 2004 and the system of interest-supported forint loans, while Péter Medgyessy, your prime minister, said that it was a good thing, that it should be kept, that it should be extended. This expansion consisted of two years of dismantling, and obviously, if they were now in power, they would do nothing else with the system of home-building subsidies, the CSOK and other subsidies. Instead, people were driven into foreign exchange loans, doing nothing to protect them, while they were able to successfully stop them in the surrounding countries. We, with a price barrier, eviction moratorium and other opportunities, such as family bankruptcy, tried to help families who were in trouble. If I can highlight the National Asset Manager, honourable Member, then we can say that the National Asset Manager has adopted a total of 39 758 real estate offers by 31 January 2017, i.e. until the last month. This means that the National Asset Manager provided housing for about 158 thousand people. You know that enforcement procedures are suspended after the offer is accepted, so the housing of these people is assured. The property stock of the National Asset Manager now reaches 28 210 properties, and by the end of 2017, it has an additional 10 thousand real estate assets, a total of 35 thousand real estate assets. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] With HUF 100 billion in budget support, the National Asset Manager will generate HUF 250 billion in mortgage debt. This means that out of 1 HUF of budget money, he was able to replace 2 HUF 30 cents of credit institutions' claims and thus help families in difficulty to keep their homes safe, and, of course, with further suggestions.
u2017-02-27-28	We will come before Parliament. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Editor Sebestyén, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources the following question: - Is social workers still entitled to the wage increase that everyone in the country will receive? It's an address.
u2017-02-27-29	Congressman Sebestyén is responsible for this. [[12.00]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, A letter addressed to the employees of the Integrated Social Institution in Komárom-Esztergom County has recently been published, in which they are drawn to the attention of the employees that they are not affected by the salary increase for the minimum wage increased from 2017. According to the institution, the amount of the part of the salary based on the employer's decision should be reduced by the amount of the increase in the basic salary, so that the amount of the remuneration remains unchanged. Although there is no legal objection to the provision, from a moral point of view, the above procedure leaves a number of obstacles. The issue of wage-setting in the sector has been waiting for years. Apart from some of the pretense measures taken over the past period, nothing tangible could be obtained from the Ministry. On the other hand, we are getting further and further away from the introduction of a career model, since, at the same time as the guaranteed minimum wage is increased, the salaries paid by the employer are reduced, so that they do not comply with the compensation promised in their own background institutions. Following an article published on the alphahir.hu news portal, from different parts of the country, the employees of the sphere contacted several people that their employer had taken a similar step. So what the government gives, the employer swallows. It does this in the worst-paid sector in Hungary, with nearly 100,000 workers working day by day to remedy the worsening social situation. In the meantime, the standard of living of employees in this essential field does not exceed 75% of the minimum level of living in the majority of cases. Dear Secretary of State, Are you aware of these processes and are you taking the necessary steps to meet the minimum wage increase? Or the situation that I consider more likely to be the responsibility of the government, because the institutions do not receive the cover for the payment of increased wages. I am not expecting praises, as I have received a reply to my written question about the allowances that have been given to the employees of the sphere in recent years, because the allowance is a substitute, it can be taken at any time. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-27-30	I'm not looking at these, I'm looking at how the employees of the sphere feel. I expect this specific question to be answered and when the wages of social workers will finally be settled. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-27-31	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I am pleased that you are now aware of the scale and timing of salary increases and know how and how wages will increase. Indeed, we also have an important objective to continue what we have started in previous years, after the sectoral wage bonus, after the sectoral wage supplement, another increase in the social sphere will occur, and we hope that this will reach a rate of 62 per cent overall in the context of a process up to 2019 in relation to the wage growth of those working in the social sphere. They deserve this surplus for the work they do there. Those employed at minimum wage or minimum wage, you know, have increased their salary by 15 percent and 25 percent, respectively, as of January. In the past, there have already been surpluses in the bonus scheme regarding wage supplements and wage supplements. One reported an increase of approximately HUF 15,000 and the other of those with higher qualifications, with an average increase of HUF 30-30 thousand. You have repeatedly demanded here in Parliament that this extra wage and this additional wage be paid on a basic basis, but you know that if this had happened, Jobbik's proposal would have put employees in a very awkward position in the social sphere if they had been leased on a basic basis, because they would not have applied above the minimum wage now increased or with a further increase in wages above the minimum wage that has been increased. So if Jobbik's proposal had been accepted, tens of thousands of forints per month would have been worse for social workers. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] In both the public sector and in the ecclesiastical civil sector, we will provide additional resources for these payments, and the proposals will soon be on the table of Parliament, and we have also provided a HUF 7.5 billion surplus to raise wages for those who have not been or have been very little affected by the minimum wage or the increase in the minimum wage. [[The president's ringing again.]] In their case, a tens of thousands of HUF increase can be expected here, as they will receive a higher increase in the degree of higher education and higher experience. And the problem that you said was...
u2017-02-27-32	We'll monitor it with the unions, and if there's a problem, we'll intervene. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2017-02-27-33	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy a question: It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, We have often heard the argument about the Olympics that we cannot even talk about unnecessary investments because most of the improvements in the tender would be made regardless of the Olympics anyway. The question is whether this statement remains valid even after the withdrawal of the Olympic tender, which has also been said many times in government communication. The feasibility study of the Olympic tender included the rental program as a necessary development. The demand for a substantial expansion of the rental sector is constantly on the agenda from the perspective of housing policy. The development, adoption and allocation of this concept are still to be done in the future. The village recycling programme can greatly contribute to and speed up the development and implementation of this concept. In the after-production of the Olympic village, some of the accommodations would have been converted into apartments for rent, for example for public service beginners and employees. In Józsefváros, for example, where a large-scale rent-apartment sale program is currently being prepared, they would have built a whole tenement for thousands of families. The question remains with the collapse of the Olympic dream: will there be a rental without the Olympics? If you take only HUF 570 billion for the Olympic villages, you could double the current tenement stock in the capital.
u2017-02-27-34	The LMP has already suggested that up to 300,000 apartments could be built out of 3000 billion for the Olympics. So the question is whether there will be a rental program without an Olympics. Thank you in advance for your reply. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks, he left the game!]] Is the card in?
u2017-02-27-35	[[His mic's working.]] I need a microphone for the Secretary of State. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Rent program!]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Look what life brings, because the LMP was a great attacker and opposition to the organizing of the Budapest Olympics, and even the tender is not withdrawn, the LMP demands part of the implementation of the Olympics. For this reason, as far as the future is concerned, I propose that a proposal like this should be read first and that it should involve developments and what it brings to the country, and that it should be attacked afterwards, because here you prove that the LMP proves that it is necessary to think first and act afterwards. And as for the housing program, the government's thinking is this. So, first of all, he prefers home creation programs, which is why he created the CSOK, because the Hungarian man likes it for some reason, if he doesn't live in someone else's, but in his own. That's what CHICS is for. In 2016, 36 thousand families came forward, and 87 billion were requested. But the government has also helped those who have been in an impossible situation for social reasons, such as currency lending, since the aforementioned National Asset Manager has created 35,000 apartments. But those economic policy objectives are also supported by the government when the labour situation justifies leaving someone's place of residence, moving elsewhere, and living temporarily, living in a working home or choosing another solution where they work. Here, the government provides tax relief and a state aid discount. I feel that, in recent years, the government has also taken a responsible decision on this issue. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-27-36	As far as improvements to the Olympics are concerned, they need to be rethinked at government level, capital level, and they need to be redesigned. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-27-37	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Judit Czunyiné Bertalan, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Development:. New gym in Somod! Where is the training and gym building program at? It's an address. Congresswoman Judit Czunyiné Bertalan should take the floor. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, In 2014, the government decided to launch a national public education infrastructure development programme. The aim is to build European-class gymnasiums, classrooms and educational schools that serve the development of young people in the long term, thus helping to carry out the public education tasks of the locality. [[12.10]] We are committed to ensuring a sound infrastructure background for public education and, at the same time, our priority is the establishment of European-class gymnasiums, which serve the educational tasks of the municipalities in the long term. There are many decades of disadvantages to be dealt with. The last time there was such a comprehensive, national gym construction program in the early 1990s. We also have to deal with many disadvantages in the fact that there are few acceptable water surfaces or facilities where they can serve swimming education, the needs of young people who want to play water polo and lovers of movement. To date, 25 settlements have decided on the construction of schools. In the new facilities, besides everyday physical education, swimming, recreation, recreation and health conservation will be available for everyone else. If the facilities are built, they will provide a total of 700 thousand people with swimming and sports opportunities. In the first phase of the program, the construction of 25 schoolhouses and 26 gymnasiums began throughout the country. We are proud of it and we are pleased that in the framework of the programme we have now managed to enrich with two new gymnasiums in the county in Somod and recently in Dunaalmás. The preparation of the next phase of the programme is already underway. These investments clearly represent pride and joy for the settlements. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Dear House, Such investments that are small at first, but important, prove that the country is being built, not only in the capital but also in the countryside. That is why I am asking the honourable Secretary of State where the next school or gym is expected to be delivered in the next period. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-27-38	Where is the training and gym building program at? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-02-27-39	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, the government considers it a priority to promote the healthy mental, mental and physical development of children, which is why we launched in 14 the national public education infrastructure development programme you mentioned. The aim of this is essentially to have basic education-related institutions for pupils in all walks, and especially for everyday physical education. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-27-40	In the framework of the program, a so-called A-type gym, 18 times 30, was handed over on 3 February, and I am pleased to inform you that a so-called B-type gym, i.e. 25 times 30, was also handed over on 24 February. Thanks to the programme, 18 additional short-term projects, including gym and classroom development, have been completed throughout the country. The investments will continue, and students will be able to acquire a new gym in 14 settlements until the next academic year begins. Within the framework of classroom and school development, more than 100 new classrooms are built in 24 settlements, 12 of which have already delivered these developments. And five settlements are full of new schools. Of course, the program does not stop with these developments, and the second phase of the program is currently under discussion, in which further development of classrooms, schools, gymnasiums and school facilities will take place virtually all over the country. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2017-02-27-41	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development: "Where do workers' rights go in Hungary? ! It's an address. Mr Nándor Gúr has the floor. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Going back a decade, we find in the statistics a little researched that in 2006 there were 16 cessations. 2006 - 16 job breaks! 2011-15, under consideration for this period, we see that it is up to 1-3 strikes per year that could be brought to life; it is not because the situation of workers has improved. From 2011, with the introduction of the new Labour Code, a negative result of government legislation was the attempt to reduce the power of trade unions. In connection with the strike law, they were trying to create an uncertain situation, creating a wide margin of judicial discretion and practice. As regards the lack of sufficient services, the threat of illegal activity has been placed over trade unions. Obviously, the number of cessations has also decreased. Several trade unions have made a difference in terms of wage increases, as an example last time at the Budapest Közterület-Sustaining Zrt. Here it was the Local Industry and Urban Economy Workers' Union 2000 that proclaimed a strike law. The Metropolitan Administrative and Labour Court has, we can say, canceled it and rejected it. Thus, trade unions are legally unable to act in the interests of workers.
u2017-02-27-42	I would like to ask you, Mr State Secretary, why you want to save wage developments for employees within the framework of public companies. What do you think is the reason why trade union demands for this type of wage increase are increasing? I'm guessing it's not that it's better. Why do they make the work of trade unions impossible even in terms of robbing the strike? Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-02-27-43	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The grapes are sour. I have some bad news: from 2010 onwards, you have basically made peace at work. You're wrong, and what's more, you're saying it's not true when you say that the fall in strikes is due to a modification of the strike law. Over the past six years, the government has pursued a very important policy of job creation and preservation, resulting in a virtual loss of basic job dissatisfaction. Such a welcome reduction in the number of job cessations is a positive feedback to us. As far as the amendment of the strike law is concerned, I do not think you dispute that the establishment of a minimum level of public services represents a fundamental Community interest in a minority wishing to pursue its interests, to which legislation is entitled, in fact, obliged. At the same time, all trade unions will continue to benefit from legal cessation in compliance with the Fundamental Law and the Law on Strike. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes several times.]] Honourable Congressman, Only over the last few months, some 150,000 people working in the state companies you mentioned, as a result of several months of ongoing negotiations and negotiations with trade unions and trade union Confederations, will have about 30 percent wage development over three years. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] To this end, it is said that no wage increases are being made for public companies and that we are neglecting meaningful negotiations with trade unions. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-27-44	in non-public meetings, substantive consultation is simply unfounded. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2017-02-27-45	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Tamás Pintér, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of National Economy a question:. Wage increase to Fidesz - tens of thousands of people on the street? It's an address. Mr Tamás Pintér has the floor. Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Their attempts to reduce contributions led to an urgent chaos in the world of work. Some of the companies are forced into tricks, even though you are aware that you will not be able to manage the necessary resources. The government would have a major role to play in providing workers with adequate resources for their decision on the guaranteed minimum wage, but the responsibility is also an unknown word for you in relation to wage increases. More and more trade unions warn that employers will announce their employees part-time in the future so that they do not have to raise their wages while they expect the same work from the workers. It is also expected that workers' jobs will be redefined, and for many municipal and public institutions with a lack of resources there is a risk that their employees will be disbanded and employed as public workers in the hope of avoiding wage increases. [[12.20]] One of the biggest sufferers of your irresponsibleness is small and medium-sized enterprises that provide a livelihood for 70 percent of employees. In the absence of compulsory wage support, about 10 percent of companies could go bankrupt, up to 200,000 people could lose their jobs. In the case of large companies, it is already apparent that although contributions have fallen, workers do not see any increase in their wages. Among other things, the Dunaferr Vasas Union of Trade Unions is fighting against this unworthy situation, with whom we also show solidarity, since we are right to ask what kind of government is it to stand by and watch multinationals eviscerate Hungarians? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-27-46	Dear Secretary of State, There are three questions on this subject. Instead of helping employers with payroll, why not help them to eliminate the disadvantages associated with wage increases? According to the government, is it an effective wage increase, while increasing the wages of more than tens of thousands of people being unemployed? If you force the wage increase, why would trade unions with similar goals be impossible? Thank you very much.
u2017-02-27-47	I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I am sorry that there is no agreement within the Jobbik faction on the speeches made by Members, because last week one of their representatives demanded that the government take a greater, more courageous approach to encouraging wage increases. Now you're telling me the exact opposite of the disadvantages of a wage increase. I would like to confirm, and what we see now is that you have not defined the direction in which you want to take in terms of wage increases, reduction of labour costs. What we see is that when the government takes bold steps to raise wages, you speak against it and at other times call for a raise. They don't seem to know what's going on in this country in terms of wage increases, what the government is doing to this end. I would like to remind you that it was not the government that set the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, but it was a tripartite agreement, which was signed by employees and employers' representatives, in particular employers and workers agreed to increase the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, which could then have an impact on the further increase in wages. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Of course, the government will not send a payroll commando around employers' necks, but will only check that the provisions of the law are properly implemented. And to ensure that employers' burdens are not too high, you should also know that the burden on wages has been significantly reduced and reduced by the government for another four years, since this particular agreement of November last year was not only about raising the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, but also about a significant reduction in taxes, so tax reductions and wage increases were the subject of the agreement together. [[The president's ringing again.]] So I guess after the tripartite agreement, [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-27-48	What we talked about, you don't have to worry about the consequences of the increase in wages.
u2017-02-27-49	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Wind and R. Benedek Sallai, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of Agriculture:, Why does the government cause further damage to the country's food security by robbing agricultural land? It's an address. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor. Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In January 2012, Viktor Orbán personally recommended to the people the new agricultural programme named after Ignac Dányi, and I quote literally: "Today, villagers buy products in supermarkets that can be produced in their gardens. It shows just how bad the problem is when the villager doesn't eat healthy food. 'The Prime Minister said that in 2012. He promised that his government would strengthen small farmers, small and medium-sized farmers, and thus increase food safety. It has now become clear, of course, that all this horse-zung, this lie has been destroyed, and there has also been no meaningful step in it, and even if possible, the government has taken counter-steps, and this system, whipped with foam, has further destroyed Hungary's food security, so that they have followed in this respect the governing powers and directions of their socialist predecessors. Obviously, there may be a question as to why agricultural speculators who travel to agricultural subsidies instead of real farmers, the agricultural land supplied to the Oligarchs near Fidesz, are destroying food safety, but we can see this when we look at what the May Other Politics has shown in the autumn of last year. Now, József Ángyán describes in his latest report that large investors and managers of the Belgian family holding company consisting of large agricultural companies in Somogy County and the Fidesz leader of the local government in Kaposvár could get to the state land without auction, at a starting price, without any food production activity. Even though small farms are characterised by high-quality, healthy food production for local consumption, the decline in labour-intensive farming continued in 2016: compared to 2013, the number of individual farms has decreased by 12 percent. Obviously, robbery privatisation has contributed to making food safety in the country even less secure, so there is obviously a question as to why the Hungarian government, Fidesz-KDNP, has an interest in destroying the quality of life of Hungarian people with worse food; I would expect an answer to that.
u2017-02-27-50	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-02-27-51	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My dear fellow Member, I have to say that you did not put it very well, especially at the beginning of your question, the problems it raises, because precisely the Ministry of Agriculture is the Ministry of Agriculture, which advertises various actions from week to week, advertising various incentive programmes for the cultivation of the garden. We are holding it today, and one of our most important statements is that there is no safer food than food produced in the garden, because it is intended for our own care, which is why we have announced support programmes that involve the award of different prizes in various competitions. Of course, any such action serves the purpose of drawing people's attention to the possibility and beauty of the garden. Then I must say to you that it is increasingly interesting to interpret the analysis - quote - put together by Professor József Ángyán, because it would be a great exaggeration to say that it is completely outspoken from the facts, an analysis of the slanderous writing, which is not based on the knowledge of the law at all, and to call it a report. It is based on incorrect data, since most of the procedures have not yet been completed, so it is not possible to know the final customers, since in many cases the NFA has concluded a contract with pre-buyers. [[Sallai R. Benedek: Fidesz Municipal Representative! Belgian family!]] The land for the farmers! After the land sales of the programme, the state's land assets decreased by about 200,000 hectares, leaving 1.6 million hectares of state land. Is this the great privatisation that 30 percent of the registered Hungarian farmers, nearly 30 thousand farmers, have acquired land under the program? Is that the big sin? And I would like to draw your attention separately and repeatedly to the fact that no farmer can obtain more than 300 hectares of land in Hungary today, as this property ceiling is laid down in the Land Traffic Act. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] His last claim was that employment in the agricultural sector increased by 30,400 people over five years, mainly due to individual farms and organisations under five. Despite the decline in the number of farms, the number of specifically producing producers increased by 49 percent, by 54,400, and their share exceeded one third.
u2017-02-27-52	It is also clear from this, my dear fellow Member, that everything you have raised is quite far from reality. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-27-53	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Nyitrai, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:. What does the Government of Hungary intend to do to continue the development of the Egri Castle? It's an address. Mr Zsolt Nyitrai has the floor. [[12.30]] Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, As a Member of the Parliament of the city of Eger, as a citizen born in Eger, I consider the development and development of the city of Eger to be of particular importance, our goal is to build Eger and make it beautiful. I see that we are in a good position, because both the operational programme for territorial and urban development and the programme "Modern Cities" offer great opportunities for people living here. With regard to the TOP developments, the city also submitted its last aid application last December. The programme, signed by Prime Minister Viktor Orbán in Eger and signed by you, Minister, offers us five major development opportunities, one of which I would like to highlight, and this is the case of the Eger Castle. The Eger castle is a symbol of Hungarian patriotism, courage and responsibility for Europe as a whole; the Eger castle, which was declared by the National Assembly in 2015, and which is the country's most visited rural museum. Several spectacular developments have taken place in the Eger Castle in the spirit of safekeeping: the castle promenade has been renewed, the castle promenade has been built, and several parts that have not been visited have been available to citizens. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-27-54	Dear Minister, The development and preservation of the values of the Eger castle is a national issue, and our goal is that a reconstructed national fortress full of attractions awaits Hungarian and foreign tourists. Dear Minister, I ask you how the Government of Hungary is helping our national cause, the development of the Eger castle. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-02-27-55	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the National Assembly that the Hungarian Government has signed an agreement with 20 county-owned cities worth HUF 2400 billion, of which HUF 1400 billion is an EU resource and HUF 1000 billion is a domestic source. I would also like to say that, in the presence of Mr Eger, we agreed on an amount of HUF 80 billion, one of the most important items of which is the linking of the cities of M3 and Eger with a four-track drive. These investments are in progress; the agreement was concluded almost two years ago, until 2015, we spent 2.3 billion forints on the development of the national memorial site to support one of Hungary's most important museums. It is indeed a nation strategy goal to restore rural castles, to function as a national memorial place, to be a community square, and to further strengthen - in this case - the pride of the city of Eger. On the other hand, I also note that we are assigning funds to this, not only are we talking about it: HUF 6.5 billion is being spent on the complete reconstruction of Eger's castle, of which HUF 1.5 billion I know is already won by the city of Eger under the national castle and castle programme, or the results are currently being presented, but negotiations on the content have been carried out. More than that, we will develop the Eger castle with some HUF 5 billion of private support, i.e. the support provided by Hungarian taxpayers, of which last year the municipality of Eger received HUF 250 million for design preparation. This year we will spend 152 billion forints of Hungarian resources and 250 billion forints of European Union funds on the programme "Modern Cities." The reconstruction of the Eger castle is included in 152 billion HUF. So if the planning is going well, the designers, the monumentists, the municipality of Eger, the congressman can agree with the Egers on the content, then this year it is possible to finance an additional HUF 4 billion. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-27-56	Good luck, Congressman.
u2017-02-27-57	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Imre Horváth, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Development:. What will happen to you Magyar Posta? It's an address. Congressman Imre Horváth has the floor. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In recent days, several reports and reports have been published in the press and on television about postal services. In my constituency, in Újpesten, several voters have complained about postal services, which is reflected in the fact that they receive letters and letters late, weeks and months later, and in several cases they also deliver transfer orders after the deadline, so they have to pay an extra fee to the citizens. To my knowledge, there are similar problems in several districts of the capital. The reason for this is, to my knowledge, a shortage of staff in the offices, especially with regard to postal delivery agents. In Újpesten, pensioners are typically called in, overtime paid, and other districts are assigned to the Post Office in Újpest. It can be considered that the reason for this is that even a 14-percent increase is not enough in terms of working rates, so people don't really push for increased salaries to be mailmen.
u2017-02-27-58	I am asking the Secretary of State what the Ministry intends to do to put an end to the current situation at the post office. I look forward to your reply.
u2017-02-27-59	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, His question points to a real problem and his reasons are correct. In Hungary, the entire logistics industry, including the Hungarian Posta, is generally characterised by labour shortages in central regions and in Western Hungary. This was due to previous pay, and in Western Hungary, the border had an exhausting effect. Therefore, because the Hungarian State considers Magyar Posta to be a strategic company and partner, in line with the government decision made last December, which raised the minimum wage by 15 percent and the guaranteed minimum wage by 25 percent, then increases the minimum wage by an additional 8 percent in 18 and the guaranteed minimum wage by an additional 12 percent, it expects that in these large state companies with labour problems, including the Hungarian Post, even if the situation you have indicated is not so tragic, but what is guaranteed will improve. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-27-60	In view of this, Magyar Posta has agreed with its own trade unions over the last few weeks - and the government has approved this in the last few days - that, on average, 32 percent of the wage development will be established in three years. In particular, the Hungarian Post is differentiated, of course in agreement with the trade unions, and will primarily provide additional income for those jobs where you are experiencing a shortage of workers. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-27-61	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Apáti, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister for National Development:. When do the people of Satmar deserve the M49 journey? It's an address. Congressman István Apáti has the floor. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The traffic on Highway 49 creates increasingly unbearable conditions in the Satmar region every day, as a significant amount of all types of vehicles pass through the Csenger-Győrtelek section, the entire area of Kocsord and a significant part of Mátészalka. The first traffic count took place in the summer of 2006 from the municipality of Kocsord, when in the twenty-four hours 10 324 vehicles passed through this settlement with three thousand souls. Then the next traffic count took place after five years, in 2011, we saw an average increase of 20-40 percent per vehicle category, but there was a category of motor vehicles, for example, the most populous car traffic, which increased by 60 percent over five years. The main problem is that Kocsord is subject to double loads, as both traffic from the border crossing points in Bellershima and Tiszabecs puts a strain on this settlement. Of the municipalities listed above, Kocsord is in the most disadvantaged situation, due to its unfavorable geographical location in this respect. The roads are narrow, depressed, there are many life-threatening and fatal accidents, almost every quarter there is at least one fatal accident in the settlement. The property in the interior is devalued, as the walls of the houses are cracked. In addition, in January 2013 the construction of the M3 Guardian's section was completed, since then traffic has only increased and the situation has become worse ever since. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-27-62	Only the rapid construction of the M49 motorway can be a solution, so that this section of the road can be relieved. Previously, promises were made that by 2017 at the latest part of the journey will be completed, now promised by 2020 or later. The question, then, Mr. Secretary of State, is when will the road construction be started, when will it be completed, and with what kind of division they intend to build, since the first phase should be built at least up to Ököritófülpös, but mostly to Csenger, that would be the salvation. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[12.40]]
u2017-02-27-63	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, The M49 motorway consists of two different technical stages. The road between the M3 motorway and the border is divided into two parts by the connection of highway 491 and the preparation of the section towards the highway is more advanced. The planned road developments are set out in the Government Decision on the coordination and implementation of investment in Hungary's short- and medium-term road development by 2022. This development is not included in the Government Decision. At the same time, the government will review the progress of the projects on a quarterly basis, the list of projects, and will decide on the implementation of further improvements if the necessary conditions are met. So if there's any more money coming in or if one of them fails, the people on this list will come in. That's exactly what we're working on to improve the state of Highway 49. Within the framework of the road renovation programme for 2017, a total of 6 km of road 49 is being renovated, and the public procurement procedure is also under way. The government will decide on the provision of funds for renovation in the coming months. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The Hungarian Public Road Nonprofit Zrt. For a period of five years, he concluded a contract with the State of approximately HUF 400 billion, which allows him to perform maintenance and operation tasks in a more predictable and better quality and at a higher standard. Until the beginning of these work [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-27-64	the road operator shall take all necessary measures. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-27-65	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Wind and R. Benedek Sallai, representatives of the LMP, wish to ask the Minister of the Interior:. When is an integrated, sustainable water management programme due to take place? It's an address. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I think the title itself has the essence of the question. Now, at the moment, a large part of the country, a large part of the lowland territory, is facing internal water problems. This is not an extremely difficult year, however, in many places, in arable areas and grasslands, the phenomenon of inland water has appeared. It is not uncommon that, in the same year when the inland water appears, two months will pass, and the same country will have to face drought damage, which is absolutely shocking, because they are now talking about water abundance, and in two months, the lack of water. Obviously, the government changes of Fidesz-KDNP have largely eliminated the rational implementation of water management in Hungary, but at the same time the government did have a plan known as the Kvassay Jenő Plan, which included roughly the national water strategy content, which included at least a strategic plan to start managing the waters of the Carpathian Basin and to try to provide areas at risk of climate exposure and water supply. [[István Ikotity applauds.]]
u2017-02-27-66	Obviously, it is not enough for the President of the Republic to mention the world's water management problem only in the capital if there is no meaningful effort. Now, in the face of the internal water problem and later drought damage, we must see that the country does not have water management. On an ad hoc basis, they use energy for flood control in the event of a war, but how we can store water in the long term, how to store and hold back with works of art with dead-water rehabilitation and other activities such as the further development of the Vásárhelyi plan, to keep water, there is no concept to that effect. So, as I said, the issue is in the title, and I ask the Ministry of the Interior with respect: when is an integrated, sustainable water management programme expected to be implemented in Hungary? Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-02-27-67	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is clear to all of us that due to the natural characteristics of Hungary, the appearance of inland water is to be taken into account. Regardless of what measures are being taken, the geographical potential itself brings this with it, just as it brings with it that the drought period will return again and again during the hot summer period. Long-term plans adopted by the government include steps, development directions that will allow water retention to improve in Hungary and can be used in the dry period. At the same time, we also see that in the decades that have passed, adequate reservoirs have not been developed, water management and regulation have been extremely fragmented and irregular. The channels maintained by the population and land users have run out, vanished, plowed, so there are a lot of problems faced by governments, municipalities and farmers. The large projects launched this year will create the opportunity to develop, develop and re-habilitation of re-routing sites, and to build new channels in several regions, as well as to replace completely end-of-life and no longer available channels. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Obviously, protection against inland water is not only a matter for the state, it must be done by stakeholders, farmers and users of the land; they know in their own profession what steps can be taken to further reduce the danger of inland water. All we have to do is to call the year where the flooded areas are over 100,000 hectares dangerous. This year, it doesn't even reach 43,000 square meters. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-27-68	Obviously, this is part of the weather, but I think that it is partly a new strategy of the government. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-27-69	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture: a HUF 5 billion investment in Biatorbágy! What does this development mean for Hungarian agricultural machinery? It's an address. Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán has the floor. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The government has always considered agriculture to be a strategic sector, since Hungary's agricultural characteristics are extremely favourable. It is therefore a pleasure to report on any investment that contributes to the development and competitiveness of the Hungarian agricultural sector. Biatorbágy, albeit an agglomerational settlement, but GSI Hungary Kft. its presence with its agricultural machine factory is also very important for the settlement. The major investment that is now under way also deserves special attention because it is a development that is entirely carried out on a private basis without EU support. The US company will invest HUF 2.3 billion in machinery from its own resources, and one developer will build a production hall worth HUF 3 billion. I believe that the expansion of production also shows the confidence of the US company in Hungary and reflects the excellent economic and business cooperation between Hungary and the United States. The investment will greatly increase production and the company's exports over the next ten years. In addition to manufacturing, the complete engineering design of the products is carried out in the Hungarian factory. Over a hundred of the employees are 75 percent highly qualified professionals, and in the coming years a significant increase in staff is expected. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Dear House, Such news justifies the idea of making a worthwhile effort both for economic policy and for agricultural policy in order to make such investments, since success [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-27-70	We can only achieve you with broad cooperation. That is why I ask Minister: what does this development mean for the production of Hungarian agricultural machinery? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-02-27-71	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy. [[12.50]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, First of all, I would like to congratulate Biatorbágy on this investment, to congratulate him for helping Hungarian agriculture in the 21st century. Bringing it to the 20th century will help to achieve the objectives, the results that this age expects and requires of Hungarian agriculture. After all, both precision farming, digitalisation and the degree of mechanization, which helps as little chemical use as possible, helps to preserve soil nutrients as much as possible, helps to manage the best possible groundwater, and Hungarian agriculture is now essential. to be transferred to the century. GSI Hungary Kft. The planned expansion of Biatorbágy's agricultural machine factory of more than HUF 5 billion is indeed a major success, and it is also a recognition for the production of Hungary's agricultural machinery, because obviously they wouldn't have come if there were no funds, engineers on whom it could be based. It is important to point out that we are talking about a sector where we cannot survive without committed R &amp; D and continuous innovation. This is why GSI Hungary intends to complete the complete engineering design in addition to manufacturing in Hungary. Innovation will also have a positive impact on education and training, so the presence of a modern factory with significant export results will also strengthen young people's interest and commitment to the agricultural engineering field. The development of a shortage of professionals will also be able to contribute actively to the success of other domestic actors in the coming years. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-27-72	And one more figure: Hungarian agricultural machinery production has been stable for years, reaching sales of more than HUF 110 billion, and the export rate is more than 80 percent of the total sales. So it is clear that we are talking about a very perspective sector with a great future, which is essential for the further success of Hungarian agriculture. Congratulations, and thank you very much for your questions.
u2017-02-27-73	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Teleki, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: Why does the Government save Florian Farkas? It's an address. Mr László Teleki has the floor. Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We have asked many times from opposition benches why Florian Farkas is not called to account for the money that the broad social groups often demand of you. I think it's time for those spendings that we've seen, how they've been made, to be accounted for. It is also because today in Hungary we miss very much that the layers you should be helping have been left on the side of the road, even though in the campaign they always said that we would not leave anyone on the side of the road. On the other hand, the elderly, the elderly, the young and the sick were left on the side of the road, and among them are the Roma population, because they allow the source that Flórian Farkas had removed to disappear, and they do not want to be accountable for bringing it back. I miss this money from education. It is missing because even though it is said that Roma children also have access to scholarships, they cannot access it, and it is in a hat that makes the use of public funds inaccessible. I ask you, Mr. Secretary, if you really believe that this scholarship system can continue to be maintained in the form in which you are trying to satisfy young people. I don't think I can. The other very important question is that you say that there is no line in health care, no waiting list. I'd like to point out that there is a lot. I would rather spend the money that is very often skipped - and in this case, Flórian Farkas - on a health programme that could base it on making healthcare better and more transparent in any case. You won't do that. But they also do not do so in education, not only in the scholarship, but also in the exploitation and construction of the future generation, so that young people who are interested in college and university can learn at the highest possible level, because they can't really make progress in that either. They can't show off because they don't want future generations to be even more educated than they are now.
u2017-02-27-74	Therefore, do not steal the future of young people. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-27-75	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, All the tests that started earlier continued, and some of the tests ended. This is why the government has decided to withdraw from the grant agreement with the ORÖ or this employment cooperative, precisely in order to make sure that only regular aid is granted here. However, I do not think that you have the intention of making the National Roma Municipality impossible and putting this form of representation in an impossible position. This is why the government has decided to partially take over ORÖ's debts and in the other part must ensure the repayment of its debts through the sale of its own assets and real estate. We hope that this will happen next, and the ORÖ will be able to start with a completely clean slate. Roma young people have not suffered any damage in recent years, any catch-up support or other services provided to them could continue smoothly. You know that we are progressing through a strategy within the framework of the national social inclusion strategy, the first to be completed in the EU Member States. This sets out very important goals at Hungarian level, which obviously has an EU relevance. However, we are also pleased to see that, since its adoption, in fact, since 2010, since a different social policy has been in place in Hungary, the social problems that cause poverty have fallen to a noticeable extent. For example, the risk of poverty or social exclusion among people under the age of 17 has been reduced from 43 percent to 33 percent - this is a huge positive change -; from 1441 to 2500 children in children's homes who are sure to use services there; from 4 percent lower early school leaving among Roma youths; from 13 thousand disadvantaged students can participate in the Roadway Scholarship Programme; and I could still list the Roma community network and other measures that could help young people of Roma origin. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-27-76	Thank you very much.
u2017-02-27-77	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources, whether it is public interest or private interest? It's an address. It is for Congressman Lajos Rig. Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, We can say that the health system suffers most from a lack of resources, which is where most of the problems arise. Recently, my contacts in Germany have been able to obtain high-quality tools and equipment for three Hungarian hospitals, the lips of Magyar Imre Hospital, the Deák Jenő Hospital in Tapolca and the Almási Balogh Pál Hospital in Ózd. The value of donations is approximately HUF 10 million, which was very useful for hospitals with ongoing liquidity problems, since unfortunately the minimum conditions and the lack of equipment and equipment for everyday operation are increasing. We were very happy with the donations, but it also saddens me that our hospitals need all the outside help they can get, because the state simply doesn't provide adequate resources for our health institutions. There are also many problems with the lack of money, in addition to an unthinkable change of structure, in which many hospitals are even more difficult to deal with. I turned to the Hungarian Imre Hospital in his lips with a public request for data to find out how the patient numbers developed after the removal of the active beds of Tapolca Hospital. It is clear that the burdens of his lips at the hospital have increased greatly. Based on data from the trauma department in 2011 and July-August 2016, the number of patients increased by one and a half times. There is also a marked difference in the emergency department: while 10 came from Tapolca in August 2011 and 24 from the district of Sümegi in 2016, this figure was 108 and 106. There are many problems in the ambulance's house as well, and their burden has increased by leaps after the cessation of the active beds at Tapolca Hospital. While in July 2011, the mileage of the vehicles and container service of the Tapolca rescue station was 29 thousand kilometers, in 2016 it increased to 43,000 kilometers. Putting one of the cars on 24-hour duty does not justify this overrun. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-27-78	I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, when does the government realize that the current funding cannot solve the minimum conditions? Thank you very much for your patience.
u2017-02-27-79	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Obviously, your donation to these health institutions is very important and well placed, but I would like to compare it with the fact that in recent years, since the structural change, the total amount of this HUF 10 million was HUF 2.5 billion in development aid. I just wanted to indicate the magnitude of this, that it came into these institutions ten times as development aid. Obviously, there is no institution where there is not yet room for development aid or donations, so I would just like to point out that, fortunately, the institutions have been able to plan a future of this multiple. [[13.00]] You were talking about extra tasks in the case of the lip hospital. Therefore, at the end of last year, the lip hospital received HUF 439 million from targeted additional resources, and the Deák Jenő Hospital in Tapolca received HUF 53 million. These additional tasks received HUF 439 million from a targeted surplus at the end of the year. So what I can tell you is that the government has tried to improve the situation there from development sources, from EU sources and from domestic sources. And we have provided support for various purposes, blocking, central patient management system, the development of an important patient-receiver, renovations, purchase of medical equipment, the relocation of a rescue station, the expansion of services, professional training programmes. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-27-80	We hope that all of these can be felt by those who go to this hospital and see how a wing has been renewed or do not have to push patients between blocks now, but can now provide them within a block in various sectors. It is also important that in the context of on-call care the surgical clinic continues to wait for patients 24 hours, with specialists, X-rays, ultrasounds, and laboratory diagnostics. I trust this will give you a sense of safety for all the patients there. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-27-81	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Where did the salary increase of staff for education and education go? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor. Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I have spoken on several occasions in recent years for the direct support of educational staff. They're the ones who work a lot for teachers, aren't they? They're the school nanny. , school secretaries, pedagogical assistants, librarians, administrators, labists, and I could go on a long list. They are in a very bad situation, since they have not received a penny increase since 2008. This means that the real value of their salary has decreased by about 25 percent since then. [[He's showing it to me.]] At last, the government promised them a 7+3 percent wage increase by January, a 7 percent wage increase, and a 3 percent wage increase, which can be given by means of a maintenance special assessment. It was visible, and it was seen from several places that there were three percent significant problems in order to get this. But, Mr. Secretary of State. The thing is, I've got a piece of rent paper in my hand. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Which shows that, let alone 3 percent, even 7 percent, these assistants don't get at least according to this detail.
u2017-02-27-82	It appears that the amount of the guaranteed salary, the amount of the guaranteed salary of the department of payment, is one amount, has not changed. The addition to the guaranteed minimum wage has increased, and eventually some supplements have actually increased the amount, but this is precisely the increase that is the addition to the guaranteed minimum wage. I ask you, Mr. Secretary of State, how is it possible that the wage increase required by the law will not be granted to anyone? And when will they finally give a decent wage increase, either as promised or beyond, to these people who work so much? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-02-27-83	Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As the government has tried in the past year to help these people's financial situation with a surplus of HUF 35 000 twice as much as possible, and to improve the income they receive on an annual basis, we have included this additional resource in the budget law this year, as it is a billion-dollar item, if I look at this average 10 percent increase in wages directly assisting the educational work. Here is the 3-percent chance to give it, not to give it, which means that someone will receive more than 10 per cent wage increase; there will be someone who is less than 10 per cent, but at least 7 per cent. After all, the heads of institutions have the opportunity to give more help, those who work better, more than 10 percent of those who do less than average, and obviously, those who do less than 10 percent. But every institution gets this plus 10 percent frame. Seven per cent of this must be provided for sure, and the three per cent framework can be more than one employee, less than the other, depending on its performance. So the amount itself is in the budget law, and every employee here must have it. The contractual amendments are obviously ongoing. Most of them happened at the beginning of the year, but I'm sure there's a possibility that you might have a case like this who, for some reason, couldn't or hadn't signed a modified contract. But if, even in March, the 10 percent increase does not arrive and there has not been any amendment of the contract, then there is a need to intervene, because in the Finance Act, this amount is available to everyone in every district centre. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-27-84	We'd like them to have it as soon as possible. Those who did not receive their wages in January should receive 10% of the surplus in January and February with their wages in February. But you're lucky it's not the LMP that's on the government, because you'd be introducing higher tax rates, so this surplus would be absorbed by the LMP tax increase. So we hope that Fidesz-KDNP will continue its single-key tax system, because otherwise, during the LMP period, they would certainly have to expect a greater withdrawal. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-27-85	Ladies and gentlemen, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. Is everything all right with MÁV? Exactly running trains, joke of the year! It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman. Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The trains in Hungary are very late. According to a survey, passengers are not satisfied with the quality of service, ticket prices are inflexible and relatively expensive. In general, 50 percent of passengers and 40 percent of passengers are positive about railway travel, which can be seen as a poor result at European level. Last year, the management of the MÁV group was balanced, and thanks to track and vehicle development, regular transport improved a lot, said MÁV Zrt. This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal of the European Union. ANNEX II The 8th. [[Defiance.]] The article will tell you about David's Violet Or Ilona Dávid, that 92 percent of the trains were running accurately in Hungary last year. Well, I travel quite a lot with the scheduled flights of the MÁV, and I am so pissed off, Mr. Secretary, that 92 percent of trains travel accurately, that I have quickly prepared a statistic, and now I write every day how many minutes the train on which I travel is delayed. 2017. ANNEX II From 10 to 27 to today, I have traveled 13 times on regular flights, 11 of these 13 flights were late..., 9 were late, 3 were not late, Mr. Secretary of State. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-02-27-86	Trains were 134 minutes late, on average 13 minutes. But there were times when we were 45 minutes late, we were 20 minutes late; I could only get on a train twice that wasn't late, which arrived in time. I may always take the wrong train, but, Mr State Secretary, I would like to ask you what statistical data you can provide to prove the statement of the MÁV CEO, and whether rail transport is really that good, that 92 percent of trains arrive in Hungary on time. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-02-27-87	I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. [[13.10]] Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and According to international standards, a train that has not once started before the scheduled time and arrives at the terminal with a delay of not more than 5 minutes is deemed to be accurate. The continuous documentation of train traffic data - in response to your question - is carried out by the traffic management service of the MÁV, the accuracy data referred to by the Chairman-CEO in 2016 was produced on the basis of duly logged data generated during passenger transport. Moreover, the typical rate of delay of trains differs from that of being in a national, regional or suburban segment. It is clear that there are fewer possible delays than short-term trains with fewer passengers, while it is indeed longer than IC trains with faster, longer running distances and tighter timetables. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Last year, the timetable was achieved at about 90 percent. Of course, I would say that it would be better if it were 95 or 96 percent. If the train is two minutes late in Japan, the headline is in the newspapers, only Japan is not on the Hungarian network. The Hungarian railway must correct not the delay of 8 years, but the delay of the last 50 years. The situation is improving in all respects, technical services and other things, including on the issue of timetable. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Just because it came up: 8 years ago MÁV had 330 billion debts, now 60. I am saying, therefore, that the situation is improving, but such questions in general, Congresswoman, are in violation not of the government, but of the 35,000 railwaymen. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]]
u2017-02-27-88	So I'm asking you to ask me more carefully.
u2017-02-27-89	Ladies and gentlemen, Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy:. When does the government switch beyond political marketing to indicators of our real economic performance, rather than using economic statistics that are suitable for self-attack and fraud? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Once again, the government has started an amazing success propaganda to prove that Hungary's economic situation is becoming increasingly favourable. In terms of the truly positive macro numbers, there really seems to be a better picture. The deficit-to-GDP ratio has been below 3 per cent for years, public debt and unemployment are falling, economic growth is stable at 2-3 per cent, there is essentially no inflation. It is a pity that the Hungarian reality shows a very different picture compared to the economic indicators that are completely inadequate to measure the performance of Hungarian and similar economies. The positive GDP figures reflect the output of the Hungarian location of multinational large companies instead of the performance of real Hungarian economic operators. The positive development of our external trade balance is not the result of the Hungarian real economy, but rather the performance and export of foreign companies in Hungary. There is clearly government manipulation behind the declining unemployment rates. Hundreds of thousands of public workers and their increasing numbers of people fleeing and working abroad from humiliating wages and poverty improve statistics. The lack of inflation results in a general international deflation environment. How, of course, should we expect change if the government does not face the facts? How can we expect an economic paradigm shift, an increase in wages, a decrease in vulnerability, instead of measuring the real situation and facing reality, by deceiving ourselves with nominal statistical data? When will the government finally plan at least the first step and face the reality of the Hungarian people? [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-02-27-90	Does the government even plan to switch to real data measuring the state of the national economy, or continue to delude, deluding himself and fooling the Hungarian people? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-02-27-91	I give the floor to State Secretary András Tállai, Deputy Minister. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It's never been so good!]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Contrary to your statement, I can say on behalf of the government, and I hope that not only on behalf of the government - and I am sure - that the performance of the Hungarian economy is excellent; that the country is characterised by growth above the EU average; that the employment rate is increasing significantly; that the number of unemployed people has fallen significantly; that there are 700 thousand employees in Hungary today than in the 2010 change of government. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: I wrote this down in writing. If you don't understand, read it.]] The fact that Jobbik does not accept the macroeconomic facts in Hungary, I tell you frankly, I am not surprised, as Jobbik's policy has changed over the past few years, turning from anti-immigration to pro-immigration, from anti-European Union to pro-EU. What is new about simply not accepting the performance of Hungarian people? And that's probably what hurts the most. This performance, the performance of the economy to be recognised, has been achieved by hundreds of thousands of millions of Hungarians. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches. Dr. Gergely Bárándy to the representatives of Jobbik: Please understand that it has never been so good.]] But if you no longer believe the reality, you do not believe the facts and you do not appreciate the performance of the Hungarian people, you should at least accept the recognition of international organisations, so the European Commission's country report, which is very positive and positive about Hungary, or even the credit rating agencies, who are certainly not qualified as political accusations. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: It was a long two minutes!]] All three credit rating agencies have rated Hungary precisely because of the performance of the Hungarian economy. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Thank you very much. Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-02-27-92	I think you're on the wrong track, the Jobbik is on the wrong track. Whatever their political goal, the facts in Hungary, the performance of the Hungarian economy, must be accepted by you. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-27-93	Ladies and gentlemen, István Ikotity and Erzsébet Schmuck, representatives of the LMP, wish to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question: what is happening in Mongolia, how is the government doing with the Eastern Opening? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman István Ikotity.
u2017-02-27-94	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Today, it is clear to everyone that the Eastern opening policy is nothing more than another high-priced communication campaign. It could also be said that a modern Hungarian adventure to the East is at stake, only in this case it is not the property security of the host countries, but the Hungarians. Your opening to the east doesn't bring the money, it takes the money. We could set a number of examples, but let's look at the state of the east opening in Mongolia. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán arrived to Ulanbátor for three days under the leadership of a 50-person delegation in January 2016, and your minister, as a member of the delegation, pointed out that our country considers Mongolia a strategic partner in the region. In 2015 the Hungarian embassy opened again in Ulanbátor, and Magyar Nemzeti Kereskedőház Zrt. started its operation in order to expand bilateral relations. Ilana's office. However, due to the fall in commodity prices and mistreated economic policy, Mongolian currency, Tugrik, has lost 80% of its value since 2013 compared to the dollar. The general government deficit in Mongolia amounts to 20 percent of GDP. The cornered Mongolian government therefore signed an agreement with the International Monetary Fund on 18 February to avoid bankruptcy. I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, how the Eastern Opening Strategy is today, especially with regard to trade and investment. I would also like to ask you, in the event of a Mongolian bankruptcy, what is the guarantee that the Hungarian state-owned Eximbank will see its 25 million dollars deposited in Ulanbátor. I look forward to your reply.
u2017-02-27-95	I give the floor to Secretary of State László Szabó. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, In the opening of the East, despite the economic difficulties affecting the region, we have achieved many successes thanks to the external economic efforts supported by diplomatic means, and despite the huge economic negative waves in the Eastern region due to the crisis between Ukraine and Russia, the Eastern Relation was able to grow. So it would be a huge exaggeration to say that the opening to the East doesn't work. Practically all the great powers of economic life, everyone looks east and south, just like the Hungarian economic forces, precisely because growth, real real economic growth will come from East and South in the next 10-15 years. Our trade flows in Ukraine, Kazakhstan and Moldova have increased significantly; Hungarian companies are winning tenders in Azerbaijan. And I have to say, we've had a lot of success in Mongolia, too, over the past few months. The tied-up loan scheme is in place. You mentioned the signature that happened last year, about a year ago. And in order to see how their currency is in crisis and how commodity prices change, believe that Eastern opening is not responsible. Moreover, the economic difficulties in Mongolia have brought very serious attention to international financial markets. The IMF and the Mongolian Government have agreed on a three-year loan programme, and international financial institutions, Japan, South Korea and China have also concluded agreements with Mongolia. At present, a $5.5 billion package is available to remove Mongolia from financial problems, and according to the IMF, GDP could increase by up to 8 percent per year by 2019. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So it would be a very big mistake if we weren't there with serious forces. In addition, investment in the dairy industry and dairy machinery have been released from Hungary in the last year. The Money Printing Company now delivers biometric passports worth $10 million, and we are confident that the renovation of the Songino biocombinat will be launched soon by Hungarian professionals [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] [[13.20]]
u2017-02-27-96	under his command. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-02-27-97	Ladies and gentlemen, Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question: When will there be a road border between Tiszaszentmárton and Salóka? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to talk about a settlement in Transcarpathia, Szalóka. The village in Ungvári district is already mentioned in the certificates of the 1200s and its population is 97% Hungarian. The population of the settlement faithfully preserves its Hungarianness, the language, culture and art of its ancestors. Szalóka The Tiszaszentmárton and Eperjeske on the Hungarian side are separated only by the Tisza and the border. The total population of these four villages is about 5,000 people. Of course, here too, families were torn apart by the Trianon peace dictatorship. For those living here, it is a huge problem that in Ungvár district there is a total of one passenger crossing point for Hungary, Csapon. Szalóka from Ukraine is almost inaccessible due to very poor quality roads. Locals can only keep in touch with relatives and friends in Hungary with great difficulties and hours of detour. On the other hand, Szalóka and Tiszaszentmárton are connected by a railway bridge, on which there is currently only rail freight traffic, so that no individual can pass through it in any way. Statical surveys carried out by Hungarian experts from the bridge confirm that it would be suitable for road transport as well. The leaders of the border villages had already consulted years ago to open the border crossing point. Professionals have found that the area's environment is suitable for the construction of the border crossing point, the border section concerned is accessible from both directions on the road and that the existing infrastructure allows the customs and border guards to operate smoothly. It follows from all this that the construction of the border crossing does not require any substantial financial investment, but would improve the conditions for cooperation with the neighbouring country if it opened. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-27-98	My question is: do you agree that the opening of the border crossing point in Saloka cannot be postponed any longer? What does the government intend to do to establish a road border crossing as soon as possible, and when is the road border crossing between Tiszaszentmárton and Salóka expected to be opened? I look forward to your honored, meaningful reply.
u2017-02-27-99	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State László Szabó. Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, You're speaking from my heart. The Government of Hungary has a strong focus on the development of cross-border transport relations, and the linking of once uniform areas separated by borders is important for us in terms of national policy and economic development. This also serves the survival of Hungarians across the border, their attachment to the mother country and their closer economic relations. Recognizing this, the Hungarian Government launched a comprehensive infrastructure development and restoration programme, in which it decided in January 16 on small-scale border road links which it considered to be technically sound, funded and feasible by European Union funds in cooperation with the partner country. Thanks to the intensive diplomatic work of the past years, we have concluded high-level agreements with neighbouring countries in order to ensure that these cross-border opportunities are more frequent, and we can draw Hungarians from outside as close as possible to Hungary. Last November 2016 Ukraine and I made a declaration of intent as Prime Minister, and we have already established planned infrastructure developments in relation to the first phase. This could, for example, result in the completion of the enlargement of the border crossing point in Beregsurány and the construction of the road bypassing Beregszász. According to the agreement with the Ukrainian party, scarce resources will be used for a small-scale development of the border crossing point between Nagyhodos-Nagypalad. In view of the difficult economic situation of Ukraine, no further developments can be launched at this stage, but further improvements of importance for Transcarpathian Hungarians and border areas will be possible following the implementation of the projects defined in the Memorandum of Understanding. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-27-100	Thank you, Mr President, for your help in drawing attention to this. There is obviously a lot of work to be done, but we are working at a great pace to make it as easy as possible for Hungarians along the border to cross Hungary and to make trade connections as tight as possible at the denser border crossing points. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we move on to immediate questioning.
u2017-02-27-101	First of all, Bertalan Tóth, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question, "Do you want to bury him so that they don't see him?" It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept his identity.
u2017-02-27-102	I'll take it, thank you.
u2017-02-27-103	It says yes. You have the floor. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, When two years ago it was discovered that the client's money had been stolen from the Buda-Cash Broker house with a thousand strings attached to Fidesz, the scandal took the DRB banking group with it. The bank is in the process of being liquidated, but there are people still running for their money. In such a situation, about a hundred families from Pécs, Baranya, who took out housing loans from the DRB bank, repaid the loan before the bank ceased to exist, but the unfair interest and cost they would have received was stuck inside. It is a small sum compared to the 100 billion Buda-Cash scandal, but it is very important and serious for some families. This is, therefore, the problem that could be solved by regulation, as a separate law has also been passed to help cheated foreign exchange lenders. Dear Secretary of State, You cannot say that this matter surprises you, because the families have directly indicated the problem not only to you but also to a large number of organisations, other ministries, but I have also indicated and even proposed a solution. Minister Mihály Varga, however, swept this proposal for a solution off the table and refused to consult me personally on this matter.
u2017-02-27-104	Why leave these families on the side of the road? Why don't you want to help them, because, as I said, we're talking about a lot of nearly a hundred million forints. As the other authentic or even trapped victims were helped by billions of forints, such as the Honvéd Insurance Fund, I do not understand why they cannot help this family of nearly a hundred Pécs and Baranya. I look forward to your reply.
u2017-02-27-105	I now give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, I would like to say in advance that you have been duly answered by Minister for National Economy Mihály Varga in his letter of 24 January, and that you have made a substantive point of expressing your professional position and your legitimate and legitimate position on the issue that you have raised. I would like to point out that this is not about a simple broker or a foreign exchange loan victim, because in the problem and issue that you raise, it is a matter of payment of a claim in liquidation proceedings, and you would like to see a procedure in this matter bypassing the winding-up law that the individuals mentioned by you, who have otherwise repaid the loan - i.e. compensation of a different nature - would benefit from a completely favourable and different procedure, which would eliminate, circumvent, and be in a more advantageous position vis-à-vis others. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-27-106	I think that the government and Parliament have found a legal and legal solution for hundreds of thousands and millions of victims both in terms of foreign exchange credit and in terms of brokers, and I believe that the problem that you have raised must also be dealt with legally, but this law means the law on winding-up proceedings, not the law on foreign exchange credit victims. Please accept my reply.
u2017-02-27-107	I give the floor to the congressman in return. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Secretary of State, I cannot accept your answer. On the one hand, Mihály Varga responded to my request two months later, and on the other hand, this is a discrimination where the families I am talking about are discriminated against, because while families that have not repaid the loan have this unfairly charged amount deducted from the principal amount, they do not receive this money back. It is simply incomprehensible to me that if a third-class Serbian football team, Kisvárda 490 million forints could receive 3 billion forints for stadium development, or 1.3 billion forints for the National Roma Municipality, and for this reason the Hungarian state has to pay a penalty, then why this item cannot be solved.
u2017-02-27-108	The legislative proposal that I have tabled would resolve this discrimination, but if you have any other proposals, I would also welcome it, because the most important thing is that these 100 families of Pécs, Baranya, have access to their money. Thank you. I can't accept your answer.
u2017-02-27-109	Secretary of State, you have the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.30]]
u2017-02-27-110	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, As I said in the first two minutes, there is a legal and legal solution to the problem raised; it is true that it is slower and more difficult, but still in line with the laws currently in force. However, I find it difficult to accept that now that you are already in opposition and one problem or several problems are solved by the current government, so the problem of foreign exchange lenders or the problems of brokers, you act responsibly as if you care about people's problems. I ask you where you were, where the Hungarian Socialist Party was when you repelled hundreds of thousands, millions, irresponsiblely among foreign exchange lenders, not to warn about its risks and price risks. This whole problem had to be solved by the Fidesz government. Where were you, where was your responsibility, when this huge social problem was created in Hungary? Thank you very much.
u2017-02-27-111	Ladies and gentlemen, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title "Personal Declaration." The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept his identity.
u2017-02-27-112	Mr President, thank you for this opportunity, and I would like to wait for the Prime Minister. All right, thank you. The Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question.
u2017-02-27-113	Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what should the Government do in order to catch up with the working Hungarian people? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I'm asking if you'll accept his identity.
u2017-02-27-114	I'd also like to wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-27-115	Thank you. Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, is anti-communism just a political product for you? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept his identity.
u2017-02-27-116	I accept, thank you very much.
u2017-02-27-117	You have the floor, Congressman. Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Minister, Since the founding of Fidesz, he has been proud of his anti-communist past, and Viktor Orbán's brave and karakan speech in 1989, at the re-mortem of Imre Nagy, has probably played an important role in this. This morning, too, we listened to the speech of KDNP's fellow Members on the occasion of the Memorial Day of the victims of communism with tears and humid eyes. Compared to this, on 20 January 2017, Vladimir Putin inaugurated the Memorial of the Angel of Peace in the former St. Anna cemetery on the Fidesz Esztergom during his visit to Hungary, which commemorates, among other things, the Red Army. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-27-118	Since the birth of Jobbik, he has considered Russian relations important. When Fidesz insulted Russia about ten years ago, we already said that trade and economic opportunities must be sought and created in the future. For three years, we have been saying that the economic and trade sanctions imposed by the European Union against Russia are harmful, and what Hungary sanctioned by its signature. But we cannot accept the forgery of history and the glorification of the Red Army as an angel of peace, even if the socialists initiated it, from a national party or from a party who made himself national and anticommunist. What a coercion and servitude is this again, Minister, which we can see from you? ! At Fidesz-KDNP, anti-communism is just a political product? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-02-27-119	I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, First of all, let me point out that over the last thirty years, in the history of Fidesz, the Member has made precise reference to the idea and belief with which we identify ourselves and think about our own party and our political community by taking anti-communist principles, and our fellow parties have been constantly involved in the breakdown of the legacy of the communist dictatorship over the last thirty years, this is consistent, consistent and accountable to us at any time. As far as relations with Russia are concerned, we can always distinguish between pragmatic country interests and our own convictions, i.e. our commitment to world view. They're not mutually exclusive. The fact is that today's reality, and it's not Fidesz's fault that if you look at the international price table, you know exactly that today - wires or not - Hungary can buy the cheapest gas from Russia. It's a reality. And four million households are fueled by gas. Of course, we must work to be independent of this energy source, but that is the reality. That doesn't make us communist friends, just like the Russian Federation doesn't always identify itself with the period before 1990. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Luckily, this is my colleague, Pál Völner. I could immediately ask him what was the situation on Esztergom, who said that this was basically a World War I monument. I would add that we respect Germany's right to keep German military tombs in order in Hungary, as well as the right of the United States of America to keep American military tombs in order, and the right of the Russian Federation to keep Russian military tombs in order, as well as the right of Ukraine and Romania to keep the tombs of World War II in order. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-27-120	As far as World War II and anti-communism are concerned: Member, I understand you supported our recent decision to bring justice to those who lost their father or relatives in World War II after 70 years, and are now receiving orphanage. Don't ask us to be an anti-communist.
u2017-02-27-121	I give the floor to the congressman. Dear Minister, I think that I could explain it to you, because that's what we represented when you were scolding Russia with your mouth full of opposition. We have also said that economic, commercial and energy contracts should be concluded with Russia, but this issue is entirely different. There is no reason why, while we are negotiating with Russia on a win-win basis on an economic and commercial issue, you are falsifying history and creating such a monument, because this is not only a memorial to Russian prisoners of war who died in the First World War, but also to the Red Army, and you know it, Mr. Secretary, do not wave your head. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] On the other hand, while you are pointing to the West, and this weekend Viktor Orbán has done the same thing to ensure that the West does not know the crimes of Communism, it is up to you not to point to the West, but to sweep around your own house first.
u2017-02-27-122	The agent files are secret three times in four years, even under your governments, to this day, and you have done nothing to make them public.
u2017-02-27-123	Mr. János Lázár has the floor. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks, but it's not!]] Thank you very much. What I can do is accept the reply of my fellow Member, Pál Völner, which is that this is a World War I Memorial and reminds of the victims who died at the end of World War I or the victims of World War I. [[Dr. Pál Völner: That's right.]] I think there's a World War II memorial on Esztergom. But to get justice, I'm going to go and see it, and then I'm going to ask you to speak up, and I'm going to let you know if there's no other way, after the agenda. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: What's that got to do with anything? Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-27-124	As far as your comment is concerned, I think that we have not only remembered the heroes of World War II in recent times, but the 100th anniversary of World War I is also a worthy memory of the fact that the ideological chaos at the end of the First World War will also be properly processed. Yet, my fellow Member cannot question that Marx and Engels were not Russian citizens.
u2017-02-27-125	Ladies and gentlemen, Bernadett Wind, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:.. Why is Szilárd Fazekas Sándor Kiss untouchable? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr.István Nagy State Secretary for his reply in order to carry out an urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding.
u2017-02-27-126	Thank you. I'll wait for the Minister. Thank you. The Minister will have to answer the question at the next meeting in the second row.
u2017-02-27-127	Erzsébet Schmuck and R. Benedek Sallai, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Is this a civil Hungary? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept your identity.
u2017-02-27-128	Thank you for asking, Mr President. Although I'm one step closer to Minister Simicskó, I'd still like to wait for Prime Minister, if you don't mind. Thank you very much. [[13.40]]
u2017-02-27-129	Thank you. Member Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, also wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. Can you feed everything to Hungarians? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Róbert Zsigó Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept your identity.
u2017-02-27-130	I can't turn down everyone, so I'll take it. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-27-131	You have the floor, Congressman. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. István Nagy State Secretary and I have already exchanged ideas on how Fidesz's estate policy serves to reduce food safety in Hungary. In particular, I would like to ask you that you may have heard of one of these food safety scandals in the last two weeks in the FM, which has revealed that in the Western European countries of the European Union, the same products, the same manufacturers' food quality, meet higher food industry requirements than in Hungary and Eastern Europe. This scandal has shown that in Hungary, the chain of authorities related to the protection of food safety - even though there are periodic checks, despite its efforts, the background of the downsizing has not gone without a trace - cannot do its job to protect Hungarian citizens, Hungarian society, from the weaker quality of the food. Obviously, Fidesz does not see much of the potential for the recovery of the Hungarian food industry except for Sándor Csányi and Lőrinc Mészáros, and we are therefore still exposed to the fact that the vast majority of our food stores have weaker, poorer quality foods from abroad. My question is, after seven years of government, who do you think is responsible for this? After all, on the Hungarian shelves there is nothing more than what you allow it to go there. Nothing else goes on the shelves but what you're contributing to. My question is whether you acknowledge that you are unfit to protect Hungarian citizens and Hungarian society from healthier food in terms of food safety. My question is whether you acknowledge that the Fidesz-KDNP and the Ministry of Agriculture are fundamentally incompetent in protecting the health of Hungarian society and food safety in Hungary.
u2017-02-27-132	And I respectfully ask you, if you do not resent the fact that Minister of State acknowledges that Sándor Fazekas is completely unfit to represent the issue of agriculture and food safety in Hungary at all in the Hungarian government. I'd be honored to hear your answers. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-27-133	I give the floor to Secretary Robert Zsigó. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You've been talking about a lot of things about your immediate question. I'll try to answer the point, because if I answered everything, I wouldn't have enough time. You are talking primarily about food safety as a subject, and you are confusing the former, the Austrian and the Hungarian stores with the issue of food safety. I assure you, honourable Member, that the National Food Chain Safety Office, acting as a background institution of the Ministry of Agriculture, is working every day with the authority of every law to ensure that healthy, safe, high-quality food, preferably Hungarian food, is placed on the table of Hungarian families. In recent years, in order to give an example, the Directorate for Major Causes has prevented VAT fraud and tax evasion of nearly HUF 9 billion within Nébihen, and the National Food Chain Safety Office is taking action against all unfair businesses. What inspired your question, indeed, at the end of 2014, Nebih bought and examined 24 foods available in Austria and Hungary as well in terms of their composition in a laboratory, and indeed there were foods that fit from a food safety point of view, but have different compositions, and in this respect their quality is lower than that of someone who bought them in Austria. The Hungarian government stands up for the interests of Hungarian buyers. At the forthcoming V4 summit, we have called on the European Commission to note that legislation is primarily a matter for the European Commission, and until then, we consider this matter a moral and honorable issue, and we believe that customers should buy high-quality Hungarian foods instead of these products. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-27-134	Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-02-27-135	I give the floor to the congressman. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Secretary, you said in one speech that the Nebih can stand up and monitor daily and that you have been able to examine 24 products in the last four years. Speaking of thousands of foods, on the basis of the sample of 24 you dare to state that the food safety of Hungarian consumers is guaranteed? What's that got to do with it? They completely destroyed the administration system and made it unfit, while practically their wallets do not understand the subject, they practically incompetently allow them to fill the Hungarian food shops with virtually any rubbish. Therefore, the European Union is not responsible for the introduction of these products on Hungarian shelves on the basis of your permission and your procedures, and you must bear the responsibility.
u2017-02-27-136	After such a food security scandal, it would be a minimum that the Minister of Agriculture would stand up, but at least it would be useful for you to acknowledge that the Minister has proved his complete incompetence. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-27-137	The Secretary of State has the opportunity to respond. Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, With due respect, you're confusing everything in this one minute, not just the last two minutes. Once again, this issue you are talking about is not a matter of food safety, but of European Union law on the one hand, and of fairness and fairness on the other. We cannot allow it, the Hungarian Government has not allowed it so far, and will continue to do everything to ensure that multinational food manufacturers who market these products under the same name as those in other parts of the Union sell food of lower quality here, such as Austria or Germany. We will take action against this, which is why the V4 summit has been organized lately. Your question is whether you can feed people with anything. With respect, with due respect, I ask you, Member, not to feed the Hungarian people with everything, like the dishonest multinationals. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-27-138	Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-02-27-139	Ladies and gentlemen, Alpár Gyopáros, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:, Has the EU Commission learned anything from Brexit? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Eight months have passed since the UK's withdrawal from the European Union referendum, i.e. the Brexitrefendum. As long as this marriage was between the United Kingdom and the European Union, the separation still took place, and if you look at the party who initiated the breakup, you can see that Britain thanks you very much, is fine. We don't have to worry about him, he's on his feet, and most importantly, he knows what he wants. Brussels, on the other hand, was not in a rosy position before, and the break-up was even more difficult. He failed, but instead of admitting that and doing a self-examination, he's acting offended. It is enough to refer here to the threat of the President of the European Commission that the British will pay a very peppery price for leaving. Although the leaders of the Union had all the means to keep the community together, they have failed in this task. Before the referendum on the Brexit, any problems arose, the answer of the Brussels bureaucrats was that this question, which is now before us - I stress, no matter what the issue was - could only be solved by even closer European cooperation. This approach to the migration crisis has obviously failed. The British reference could have been sobering. However, a significant part of the political and spiritual elite in Brussels continues to live in a dream world, where political action is driven by ideologies and utopias, not reality. People have had enough of this, and they have decided to leave because the EU leaders seem to be incompetent to carry out their duties. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-27-140	Dear Minister, How do you see that the European Commission has learned anything from the Brexit?
u2017-02-27-141	I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, First of all, in order to understand the Hungarian position, it is absolutely necessary to say that Hungary is basically in opposition in Brussels, given that what Central Europe, the V4s or Hungary represent, for example, in terms of national sovereignty and the concept of a strong nation, is predominantly in a minority in certain matters, sometimes in a majority, but essentially in a minority. [[13.50]] The question is whether the Brexit was a sufficient wake-up call. I think we can talk about the worst failure of the European Union to date. They would remind you of the debates that preceded Britain's entry. Many people had a lot of work and an important stage in the idea of the European Union to make Britain, the United Kingdom, a member of the European Union. Now some - and in this crucial role the 40 000 Brussels apparatus - have achieved that the vast majority of Britain's voters have left the European Union because of labour market regulatory issues and other regulatory issues affecting national sovereignty. The difference between the residents and the exits was indisputable. In this situation, Hungary must first learn the lesson and represent the position that we are interested in a fair Brexit, which means that Europe must also be good and winner in this and, of course, in Great Britain. For example, by leaving the European Union, Hungary achieves that its largest trading partner outside the European Union will be the United Kingdom immediately. So we have a direct reason to leave in a normal, orderly way. In April, a European Council meeting will be held with Commissioner Barnier, who has been to the Prime Minister in Budapest to see what the negotiating agenda will be. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-27-142	Another important point is that there is great hubris and little humility in Brussels in bureaucracy. Yet it would not be right to demand the head of the apparatus and demand the head of President Juncker. The government's position was that trouble can't be solved with trouble, it can't be corrected with error. Right now, we need to find what we agree on. To this end, Europe's leaders will meet in Rome at the end of March and try to reconcile the common values on which we can rebuild the alliance.
u2017-02-27-143	I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, When our country joined the European Union and even at the time of the accession negotiations, we witnessed a clear division of competences. We knew exactly what the European institution had to do with the other European institution, and even the European institutional system compared to the nation states. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-27-144	Since then, in relation to each of these problems, as I have already indicated, the European institutional system's response is that we want more Europe, and more Europe is apparently the stealthy legislation of the European Commission and the European Parliament and the weakening of the sovereignty of nation states. This has been proven countless times. For example, after the last elections to the European Parliament, the Council's right to vote as President of the European Parliament was essentially formal. The result is well known, today the President of the European Commission is Mr Juncker, whose good mood may even be over Tibor Szanyi, and who, in fact, has not been able to solve a more serious European problem at the head of the European Commission in recent years.
u2017-02-27-145	Mr. Minister has the opportunity to respond. I respect the position of the Member, but we are still interested in the solution. When Hungary made a commitment to the European Union, it concluded an alliance of interests and values at the same time. We don't have to explain the alliance of interests. However, it is important to explain the value alliance because in this Parliament I hope that there is agreement that a strong Hungary and strong nations can make Europe even stronger. If not strong nations, but weak nations, will form the European Community, then we will lose our competitiveness, we will not be able to increase it, and we will be permanently behind in the competition between continents. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-27-146	The question is whether brexit is an option. In our view, Brexit can be an opportunity to sober up the European Union and to curb, slow and reverse certain processes. What we want to do is to talk about a number of points in which we agree, rather than an ideological dictatorship, a certain perception of the European Union, I would not say that it is a full and complete understanding and that we should have the opportunity not to be discriminated against, but to argue in order to defend our principles.
u2017-02-27-147	Ladies and gentlemen, Gergely Bárándy, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:. What did Mr. President think of this? ! It's an address. The President appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept his identity.
u2017-02-27-148	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Since Mr Vice-President is not talking nonsense in Parliament, he is obviously unable to answer why Mr President is doing this. I'd wait for him. Thank you. Thank you. Mr President will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question.
u2017-02-27-149	Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Attorney General an immediate question:. Fidesz politician is above the law? It's an address. It's up to Congresswoman. Thank you for the floor. It has been six years since we filed a complaint in the case of fictitious invoicing in KSE Kft., the local government company of Kecskemét. At the time of Gábor Sombor's mayorship, a total of HUF 452 million was transferred from the company through fictitious accounts, and more than HUF 335 million were unpaid by its suppliers. Nevertheless, your investigation has progressed spectacularly, which we in Parliament have repeatedly called for. It wasn't until February this year until the first trial. We might as well think that, even if it is slow, the law enforcement authority will, exceptionally, catch up with those close to the ruling parties. However, it was an illusion. In the indictment presented at the trial, it's not what's in it that's interesting, it's what's left out. Despite years of investigation, it was not possible to find out how the subsidies received from the municipality could have disappeared with fictitious accounts. In support of the documents, we presented how they abused a HUF 54 million municipal grant agreement. The municipality accepted the fictitious accounts of apparently irregular use. As a result, we reported a breach of budgetary fraud and accounting discipline in January 2016. Then the D.A.'s office has replied that they're investigating this case in the ongoing proceedings. The investigation has been closed since then, the arraignment has been filed, and the indictment doesn't show any trace of this connection to the Kecskemét City Administration.
u2017-02-27-150	Mr. Attorney General. Do you think this is mere negligence, or does it have something to do with the grant agreement being signed by former mayor Gábor Zombor? How is it possible that the prosecutions under your authority are covering up cases? You think that's a normal way to deal with the charges? Or are you willing to take action in the case described in the complaint for a substantive investigation? Are you as afraid of Gábor Zombor as you are of Voldemort? They don't dare write her name, and they don't dare say Voldemorte? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-02-27-151	I give the floor to Attorney General Péter Polt. Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In the case you mentioned, several independent reports were made at the time. One of them was done by the mayor you mentioned. Following the complaints, the NAV conducted a long and conscientious investigation. By the way, this was a very complicated case, which resulted in the Szeged District and Investigation Prosecutor's Office accusing six people on 22 October 2015, which is a long time ago, and the case has been in trial at the Szeged Court ever since. There's no doubt that there's been another complaint in the courtroom. The complaint is directly related to the subject matter of the case and, therefore, according to procedural rules, the prosecutor's office sent it to the court in February 2016 in order to attach it to its case files. It's still there. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-27-152	And as to the comment that the prosecution would select a party either between the defendants or the witnesses, it will not stand up to its place in this case or in any other matter. Furthermore, the ex post examination shows that there are several different party positions, whether between the defendants or the witnesses involved in the case. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-27-153	I'll give the floor to the congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, The fact that the D.A.'s office is picking on me is a public fact. You don't have to prove that. Every citizen already knows that. You know, a municipal company, where municipal representatives and mayors are responsible for everything, including their signature, and then, when nearly 800 million forints disappear, they are charged with fictitious bills, and they are excluded from the indictment just because they are fidesz politicians, selection. If, by the way, even in the people sitting in court and in the judge's court, why in a lawsuit on a municipal company there is no Fidesz representative or even a municipal representative or the mayor of that time to be heard, then I think it's not a question of the prosecution's selection, unfortunately on a political basis. [[14.00]]
u2017-02-27-154	I think the least I can do for a case like this is resign the entire D.A.'s office. Thank you.
u2017-02-27-155	Mr. Prosecutor General, the rejoinder is yours. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Then you can sit down. Dr. László Varga: It was deadly serious! You have to cancel.]] I just want to answer the big questions. I just have to repeat myself again. If you had ever studied the documents of this case, you should have seen who the D.A.'s office was listening to as witnesses. Once again, out of several parties, people who knew about the case and who were also burdened, and then among the defendants, there were then politicians. So this in itself contradicts your question and your own self-powerful response to it. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-27-156	The case is indeed being prosecuted for misappropriation and other crimes. Those who commit a crime with indictment certainty are all in court. Thank you very much for your attention. [[For signal:]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. Romania in front of Hungary? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public mission. I'm asking if you'll accept his identity.
u2017-02-27-157	It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In mid-February, Romanian head of state Klaus Iohannis welcomed the European Union's Brexit negotiator in Bucharest to ask him for assurances about hundreds of thousands of Romanian rights in Britain that they would not be damaged after the Brexit. It seems, therefore, that our eastern neighbours are not only ahead of Hungary in economic, but also in national interest, they are not only in the fight against corruption, but also in the fact that they pay more attention to the interests of Romanians working abroad than the Hungarian government is doing in relation to Hungarians who have fled abroad and have been persecuted abroad. The question, Mr Secretary of State, is what the Hungarian Government has done on this issue so far. What steps has the Hungarian Government taken to ensure that hundreds of thousands of Hungarian rights in the UK are not violated? We have heard little from you so far, not even at the level of words, let alone specifics, but otherwise there is plenty in the government's account in this area, there is plenty to pay in this regard. A new Hungarian exodus was launched after you came to power. As of 2011, emigration from Hungary has accelerated with a view to moving to Western European countries for work. Both young and old are going, but most of them are young and well-trained, so there are crowds of young people who can and will work in Hungary. Only the number of Hungarians living in England is estimated to be hundreds of thousands, only the number of Hungarians living in and around London is estimated at about 100,000. All the surveys show that the Brexit did not discourage the outside workers. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-27-158	The question is what restrictions will then be imposed on foreigners, foreign workers. The question is whether Hungary has any intention of doing something about it, or whether we are letting history rush past us. What steps did they take? What steps do you intend to take to this end? Secretary of State, I look forward to your reply. Thank you.
u2017-02-27-159	Mr. András Tállai has the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to point out that the problems and difficulties of the two countries in this area are not comparable. So the Hungarian people working abroad in Great Britain and Romania are not comparable, as many people leave Romania to work abroad as from Hungary. So even when comparing population numbers, the size of the problem is not comparable. What the Hungarian government has done with regard to the Brexit, I think it has done everything that is in the best interest of Hungary, the Hungarian people. The Prime Minister of Hungary has negotiated in Britain. This is also a recent press report, in which he clearly asked that Hungarians working there, who want to continue working there, should not be harmed or discriminated against. However, it is in the interests of the Hungarian government to return home, to work at home, to find their calculation at home, as the labour force situation in Hungary has changed significantly over the last few years, and unemployment has created a shortage of labour in Hungary. This is why the three-way agreement was reached between employers, employees and the government, the essence of which is that in Hungary the incomes should be significantly increased and that is to try to encourage Hungarian people working abroad to come home, and the Hungarian families, especially the Hungarian economy, to bring their workforce to the service of Hungarian families. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-27-160	But, of course, the government will take further steps in the near future. Thank you.
u2017-02-27-161	The congressman has the right to a rejoinder. Thank you very much. Secretary of State, according to a British newspaper meeting a few days ago, the Hungarian Government, together with several other countries in Eastern Europe, is preparing a special deal with the right-wing government of Great Britain, the essence of which is that they will support the British aspects in relation to the Brexit. I would ask Mr Secretary of State for a clear position on whether the government is preparing a special deal that would go over the heads of the Hungarians working in England and possibly make a political deal at the expense of their interests. Is this news true or not? The other: the majority of Hungarians left not only because you have built an unlivable, poorly functioning and corrupt country, but because you cannot make a living on the wages at home. Jobbik has taken a European citizens' initiative - with several Eastern European countries - in order to catch up on Eastern European wages. Equal pay for equal work - that is the essence of this European citizens' initiative. We would not have heard it from Viktor Orbán once in recent years, when he defended the laws of your party state in Brussels that he would have spoken for the interests of the Hungarian people, those who live on Hungarian wages and salaries. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-27-162	How does the government feel about this initiative? Does the government at all agree that wages in Eastern Europe should be similar to those in Western Europe? I am waiting for your answer to these two questions. Thank you.
u2017-02-27-163	It's for the Secretary of State. Mr President, When we compare Hungary and Romania, let me have some numbers. One of these figures is the rate of reducing unemployment. Compared to 2010 in Hungary, the third quarter of 2016 figures: the number of unemployed people has decreased five times, but if compared to 2014, they are also three times the number of unemployed people. The employment rate in Hungary is more than ten times higher than in Romania, not to mention the actions, where a family with two average earners and two children in Hungary earns one and a half times as much income. So he makes Romania look like a model country, but let us also take into account the facts of Hungary. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-27-164	I think that the Hungarian government will do everything in its power to create an economic environment: it has reduced corporate tax, it has reduced employer's contributions, it has increased minimum wage, it is encouraging income increases, it wants the Hungarian economy to continue to grow and the number of people employed to grow, and it is taking every step to do so. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-27-165	Ladies and gentlemen, Rózsa Hoffmann, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "Do workers in the social sector receive adequate appreciation? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept her identity.
u2017-02-27-166	Of course.
u2017-02-27-167	You have the floor. [[14.10]] Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about the wage development and career of social workers. On behalf of my fellow Members, I can also say with responsibility that the support of the needy, children, the elderly, the sick, the fallen, the homeless or the needy, is a personal matter for all of us. Our special responsibility in this assistance is to appreciate the professional staff involved with them, and therefore the employees of the social sphere. Our aim is therefore to ensure that workers in the sector can receive adequate financial recognition in addition to morals, so that the Fidesz-KDNP administration has launched the wage-receiving of over 90,000 social workers. They are the ones who help some 800,000 people every day in a charitable, state, local government, church, social institution, or volunteering. In the last three years, we have already started the pay gap, and from 2014 the government has set a wage supplement of HUF 12 billion per year, which was pushed by an additional HUF 8-8 billion in 2015 and 2016 and, in total, there was more money available to raise wages by HUF 60 billion. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-27-168	Dear Secretary of State, With the economic strengthening of the country, we have finally had the opportunity to raise the general wage, which has also helped those working in the social sector. To ensure security of supply, to keep them in the sector in the future, they need continued support. That is why I am asking to what extent the wage increase for social workers is rising and where the social career concept is being developed, what discussions are being held by the government on this issue. I look forward to your reply.
u2017-02-27-169	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, The 2014 sectoral pay gap and the next pay supplement in 15-16 could lead to a very large surplus of the social sector workers' wages. Allow me to show you this for three examples. A child care professional who has been on the field for a long 30 years now earns 36,000 forints more than in 2013. If you look at someone who got out of college as a career beginner in 2013 and gets out now and the difference between his wages in the social sphere, you can see that the difference is 43,700 forints for a college-educated family care provider. Now you can start your career by 43 700 HUF more than you did in 2013, and if you are a social advisor, your salary is now 52 thousand HUF higher than you would have been in 2013. This is because not only the equal pay bonus for all, but also the wage supplement was introduced, which has tried to give a higher wage increase to those with higher education, higher education, better education, so they are able to help with their qualifications, obviously in addition to human devotion, which, I think, is worthy of recognition here for everyone who works in the social sphere, all 93,000 working there. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-27-170	There will be a further increase in the coming years. There are very many people in the social sphere affected by raising the minimum wage and the minimum wage, which is 25 percent this year as well, and 12 percent for those with qualifications next year, and who do not have a high enough rate, we believe that there will be additional additions to what I will return to in one minute. Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin will take her place in the notary's seat.]]
u2017-02-27-171	It's for the congresswoman. [[László Varga: Unbelievable!]] Dear Secretary of State, I'm sure we all remember that in 2010, when this government received - or its predecessor - trust from the voters, how much personal psychological distress it caused us all to take over public finances with a lack of money, a lack of public debt that couldn't get money in a lot of otherwise justified areas because the previous government had squandered and indebted the state. [[László Varga: Accept a decision that you are brilliant!]] It is a great pleasure for us that Hungary has finally reached it with a good governance and a good farming, so that those who really need respect can also receive the salary that allows them to make a living on this salary. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-27-172	I think that we should thank those working in the social field, all those who have not been discouraged, have not lost hope, have stayed home, and I hope that they can trust that this career will continue and their appreciation will be strengthened.
u2017-02-27-173	The Secretary of State is to be rejoined. Thank you very much for the floor. In this way, this year there is an additional HUF 7.5 billion available to raise wages for workers in the social sphere, an additional 1.5 billion for daycare workers, but let us now move on to those in the social sphere. We are also talking about a higher wage supplement for a higher education, as others are affected by the general minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, i.e. the minimum wage increase. As a result, this year, employees in the social sphere can expect an increase of 33 thousand forints, almost 20 per cent. Obviously, this may be higher or lower depending on specific jobs, but it must reach at least HUF 16 500, and it will be the highest of HUF 84 585, which will increase the wages of social workers this year. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-27-174	Overall, we would like to see an average wage increase of 62 percent between 2013 and 2019, with the government covering this, and working with the service providers, trade unions, so that it can reach everyone as a wage increase, not only in the budget, but also in everyone's personal wage paper. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-27-175	Ladies and gentlemen, Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. When did the government oracle re-established? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. Thank you very much, I accept it, especially because it is partly the subject of Hódmezővásárhely. Hódmezővásárhely is a very nice city for me, I was baptized in the new church, and my grandparents lived there, and I spent every summer there as a child. That's why it pains me that when I went there, I saw that it was one of the first ones to go dark, thanks to the LED lights. It also hurt that public procurements were issued - I looked at how public procurement was launched - that practically there was no need to refer, and they entrusted a full exchange of public lighting to a company without asking for a reference before. Even a veterinary company could have started there, Lajos Szabó could have run there or his successor. On the other hand, in other cities, such as Szekszárd, the only way to run such a public procurement was to have three or four thousand lamps installed in one single city, and I think this is no accident. So the fact that anyone could have started in Hódmezővásárhely, and then in all the other cities only if they had 3-4 thousand lamps, is not a coincidence, but it is a very serious type of tampering with public procurement when we ask for references that only one company is qualified for. It is particularly serious here that it is the company of the Prime Minister's future son-in-law at the time, and it is particularly serious because we know that Szekszárd has been talking to this company long before then.
u2017-02-27-176	My question is, do you think this phenomenon is a coincidence, or my other question is whether OLAF has initiated an investigation in this matter and has closed this investigation if it has concluded with what result and if you have received any notification of this. Thank you.
u2017-02-27-177	I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Thank you very much. First of all, Mr President, if I may, I would like to answer your question, "When has the government's oracle been restored?" I would like to inform you that Ferenc Gyurcsány's government oracle has not been restored. As far as the new church is concerned, I find it an honor to have you baptized there in every beaver farm. I also encourage him to support the new church, the Reformed Church, and the Reformed Church, which is otherwise in bad condition. [[Defiance.]] As far as the public lighting in Hódmezővásárhely is concerned, I look forward to Hódmezővásárhely one evening - don't misunderstand my comment - The cost of street lighting decreased by 25 percent and the power of lighting increased by 40 percent. I'd be very happy to show this to you anytime after 6:00 p.m., at 6:15 p.m. I'll be at your service today or tomorrow. Tomorrow I hold a public forum, I hold a public forum in my constituency on Thursday, I can show you that in the city of Mako, where this investment has not been completed, what the public lighting is like, and I can show you where it is done, what the public lighting is like. We couldn't ask anyone for references because it was the first such investment in Hungary, no one has ever done anything like this in Hódmezővásárhely. If we had asked for a reference, we would never have achieved a 25% reduction in costs and a 40% increase. In the case of Hódmezővásárhely, I can't testify to any investigation, given that the person who has examined the project has found it to be 100% organized. In other cases, I know that our opposition fellow Members, perhaps you, have also made criminal reports and other reports, and I am not aware of the end of these investigations, and the investigations are ongoing. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.20]]
u2017-02-27-178	I can reassure the Member that, where there has been a modernisation of public lighting, and where the contracting authority has chosen the technology well, has prepared the investment well, there has been a very significant increase in lighting and a reduction in public lighting costs and resources, and we have been able to separate ourselves from the energy provider that has been extorting us ever since. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-27-179	Thank you. I give the floor to the congressman for a rejoinder.
u2017-02-27-180	Thank you very much. I'm going tomorrow, but not in the evening. I go there a lot, and it's much darker in the evening hours. But that wasn't the question. The question was whether OLAF had been investigated, whether it had been completed or not. I would ask the Minister to answer whether he is aware of OLAF's investigation. He didn't say anything about that. My complaint has already been closed, but I would definitely be interested in the OLAF investigation, especially because in the closure document they are referred to as OLAF also provided them with a document. I would like to ask you for an answer, and whether you agree that this is a really good example of what Mayor Rezső Ács told us that the companies are already there today. And you have also said here in Parliament that companies are often present in the launch of projects. That's why Szekszárd has been consulting the mayor with the later winning company for months before the announcement.
u2017-02-27-181	Mr. Secretary has the floor. Thank you very much. As far as I know, there are several investigations in progress on this issue. I can confirm that there has been an Eutaf investigation, that the government has conducted an irregularity investigation, that a similar case is being prosecuted, and that OLAF investigation is under way. I can't really comment on the ending of any of them, because I know they're all in progress. [[Delight and applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-02-27-182	As far as the construction is concerned, I think that the municipalities that wanted to be independent of the electricity suppliers wanted to reduce the dependence and vulnerability that had traditionally been created between the electricity supplier and the local authorities over the last twenty years would have wanted to carry out a good project, which, once again, is much cheaper to operate and has a much greater efficiency of light. If you're in Hodmezővásárhely, there's no way you're experiencing darkness unless you bring it there. [[János Pócs: Yes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, János Pócs, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: "How can animal protection really be more effective? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Róbert Zsigó Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept his identity.
u2017-02-27-183	It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, At the beginning of the session, the Committee on Agriculture discussed a proposal on animal protection submitted by a representative of Jobbik. I would like to highlight a draft measure of the proposal. Jobbik's group wants all dog owners in Hungary to have their mandatory pets neutered, and this can only be waived if they pay a levy. All of this is explained by the fact that uncastrated dogs suffer because they do not mate when they want to. They also believe that the majority of the domestic dog-keeping society is not mature enough to be responsible for the reproduction of dogs. Dear Secretary of State, The good old logic of the proposal is that all dog keepers are guilty. Jobbik will find a simple solution to the problem, they'll castrate again. I'm familiar with this mentality, but from a time when the party president hasn't stolen the party's soul or, to put it this way, he hasn't castrated the party yet. It seems to me that this neutralizing procedure wasn't entirely successful. In the collective subconscious of Jobbik, there is still the old logic, there is still the tendency to radical solutions. It's not that easy to kill that particular soul. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-02-27-184	Dear Secretary of State, What solution could be better than Jobbik's proposal? What measures does the government take to help raise the awareness of livestock owners? What support is available to support institutions and organisations in the field of animal protection? How important is it for Hungarian people to protect animals? I also ask with respect: are non-governmental organisations involved in animal protection popular with regard to offering 1 percent of personal income tax? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-02-27-185	I give the floor to Secretary Robert Zsigó. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to begin by thanking you for your question, since it gives me the opportunity to tell you what the government has done in the field of animal protection in recent years. Since 2010, animal protection has been a very important area. I can't even list everything. I, too, find it regrettable that there are political parties that use animal protection for their own political purposes. Honourable Congressman, This year, in the 2017 budget, HUF 40 million is available in the field of animal protection. This does not mean that this is all the money, but that it means that 40 million HUF is more available than in the previous year. We plan to provide 30 million forints of this to support the modernisation of animal shelters and health facilities, the award of which is planned by tender, and which is in progress. In addition, 5-5 million HUF will be spent on the continuation of the previous successful spaying programme and the continuation of the approach-forming work on responsible animal farming in the organisation of the National Food Chain Safety Office, as I agree with you, we also need responsible keepers of animals. Once again, it is not only 40 million forints available, because since 2010 there has been about 3 billion forints in the nature and animal protection organizations. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-02-27-186	Until my two minutes are up, I will also inform you that in order to reduce the number of animals in shelters and strays there is a great need to neutered as many animals as possible, because we all know that if animals in animal holdings, shelters, are to be adopted or adopted, this can only be in castrated condition. Based on an agreement with the University of Veterinary Medicine, we will continue this programme both earlier and in the coming period. If you don't mind, I'll answer the rest of your questions in a minute. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-27-187	Congressman has the right to a rejoinder. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It is also important to mention that part of Jobbik's proposal for a decision is to provide specific support from the central budget for animal shelters. A similar proposal for a decision has already been made by Jobbik. At last week's committee meeting, however, it turned out that a member of the party, a representative of the party, operates a dog shelter, and Jobbik worries about them. There has been a history of serious deficiencies and irregularities in the operation of this particular shelter. Ladies and gentlemen, In your animal shelter, where 450 dogs were built before the 250-seat operating permit, this company tried to keep the rights to even 1 percent. Dear Secretary of State, There are two messages to this proposal for a decision. Even in opposition, the party would be shoveling money to criminals' better friends. The other is, if they were on the government, as promised, they would castrate criminals, dogs, us, and each other. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz. Dóra Dúró: So pathetic! Dr. István Apáti: You were very weak!]]
u2017-02-27-188	Dear Secretary of State, The question arises: how can we act more effectively against illegal animal shelters? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-02-27-189	Dear Secretary of State, You have the opportunity to rejoinder. Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I can assure you that the animal protection authority will take action in all cases either against the animal shelter operators or other animal protection organisations which are not doing their job in a fair manner. Another great result of recent years - to continue what I just said - is the microchip marking and registration of dogs. What we can tell you is that candidate dogs are registered in a national dog database, and the information can be accessed by the authorities, which greatly helps us with our work. As a result, and as a result of what I said earlier, the number of dogs arriving in the nationwide settlements decreased from 30,000 five years ago to less than 20,000. In addition, it is also welcome that the number of dogs adopted from the tadpoles has increased significantly by 20 percent. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-02-27-190	Thus, the work of recent years has a result in the field of animal protection. Thank you very much for asking. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the discussion of today's agenda. [[14.30]]
u2017-02-27-191	It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. For the speech following the first agenda, Mr.Péter Hoppál asked: "Dignified commemoration in Pécs on the Memorial Day of the Victims of Communism." You have the floor, Congressman. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, This weekend, I attended several memorials in Pécs on the Memorial Day of the Victims of Communism, February 25. On Saturday, Pécs took place the foundation stone of the Memorial House of Béla Kovács, the Secretary-General of the Independent Small Farmers' Party, the then governing power taken away by the Soviet authorities exactly 70 years ago. We were also able to hold a celebration on the round anniversary, with the participation of the descendants, in the framework of the Pécs-Patacs primary school, the former primary school named after Béla Kovács. We also inaugurated last week the memorial of the victims of Pécs-Baranya carried to the Soviet Union in the city. With these memorial sites, we can settle our debt for decades thanks to government support. This joyful topicality and the importance of memory are the little by little fulfillment of the purpose of the Memorial Day which is the subject of my speech today. Remembering and reminding for a long time was an act prohibited and punishable by communism in Hungary. Some had no interest in being reminded or even forbidden, and some were afraid to remember because they were intimidated. Experience has shown that fear is inherited for generations until someone breaks it. Philosophy says that truth has never been built upon a lie. That is why it is so important that we reveal and bear in mind the past, and that we and our heirs guard over it, so that the horror caused by dictatorships can never be repeated in our country again. Both the Day of Remembrance of the Holocaust Victims, 16 April and the Memorial Day of the Victims of Communism, 25 February, was introduced by the first Fidesz government in the millennium years. This is when these two totalitarian dictatorships, the 60th Andrássy Street prison building, opened up, symbolizing the horrors of Hungary, the House of Terror Museum for ordinary people such as the victims, their families, relatives and all the heirs of our history, who do not know the real face of the system. Today we are at the last moment when living witnesses and victims can testify to the horrors of the crimes committed by the Communists. Millions of people throughout Hungary have been affected by everyday murders, abductions, false accusations, imprisonments, tortures, rapes, threats, harassment or observations. In 2013, the Committee of National Remembrance set up under the second Orbán government and the Gulág Memorial Year announced last year, 2016 under the third Orbán government, was aimed at restoring memory to the humiliated and the relatives of the murdered not only in Budapest but also in Hungary's entire territory, thereby showing the path of pain relief and the recovery of society. Everyone, throughout the country, has the right to remember their loved ones and to find a cure for their suffering. Pécs and Baranya are sadally concerned with the abductions during communism, but in the context of the commemorations, he also has an important task to do because of the birth of a former small farmer politician Béla Kovács in Pécs. February 25th, the day of the abduction of Béla Kovács is symbolic for the whole country, as this was the act that was the beginning of the reign of the communist dictatorship for all Hungarians 70 years ago. The municipal and civil society organisations of Baranya county received a total of HUF 160 million from the applications for the Gulág Memorial Year. It is a recognition to all those involved in the creation of programmes and monuments to commemorate, drive and drive. We repay our old debt when we transform Pécs people, the government of Pécs and the government together, renovating the birthplace of Béla Kovács in Pécs into a memorial house and community space. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-27-192	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we must believe that the truth is the basis for the future of a stronger, more united and more successful society, a nation. It is important that those who experience an unimaginable range of injustice and vulnerability at least in the present get justice and have the opportunity to declare their truth. Respect for the heroes.
u2017-02-27-193	Thank you. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát applied for a speech after the next agenda:. How much longer? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. Mr President, Dear House, Although I recommend to the government representatives from week to week that they meet with foreign exchange credit victims, small families, this is not a very common case based on feedback, and it does not really happen. Therefore, I would like to draw your attention once again to facing the victims of an unsolved problem. These families should meet not only in receiving hours, but also during personal visits, as Jobbik's representatives do at every invitation, and face the problem of what kind of national nukes there are that, after the destruction of hundreds of thousands of people, their situation is quite simply drying out Hungary's economy. Former productive, active, active, working, tax-paying people have become small-scale people, who in many cases need social transfers, their families have fallen apart, their homes have been lost. And we also know from the government's success propaganda that there are over 32,000 people whose homes have been brought to him by the National Asset Manager, so those who no longer have their own homes, the Fidesz-KDNP government invented the construction of their homes. That's how they can hire their homes back. This may temporarily help someone, but we cannot rely on it as a long - term solution. In the long term, with a public-based home-building and rental-building programme, with the commission of Hungarian construction contractors, using Hungarian small and medium-sized builders and entrepreneurs to the greatest extent possible, it would be possible to achieve huge economic results, reducing housing poverty, slowing down the migration spiral. Jobbik has a complete concept for this, we put it on the table, with a budget of less than 100 billion to start a program of this kind, i.e. a fraction of the level of expenditure of government unwarranted prestige investments. At the same time, we must say that it was sobering to listen to the debate on the report of the Hungarian National Bank and to monitor it. My colleague János Volner and I commented in detail on this debate that the Hungarian National Bank was an active participant in this looting mechanism, even with the fact that the weakening, weakening and stabilisation of the forints around 310 HUF/euro level has easily preserved and preserved the problem of foreign exchange borrowers. At the same time, however, it has never provided the Magyar Nemzeti Bank with an unabsorbed source of profit. Therefore, our problem is that if the MNB generates losses, this will be supplemented by the Hungarian budget, the Hungarian taxpayers' forints. That's the law, that's the rule. However, we still do not see clear rules as to what will happen if the National Bank of Hungary, for example, realizes a huge profit at the cost of the skin of foreign exchange lenders. Here we see a HUF 94.5 billion profit generated in one of the periods concerned on this currency-credit conversion alone, and the MNB, with great goodwill, paid HUF 50 billion into the budget as a dividend. At the same time, we see that this is not an optional option in Germany or Poland, but a direct obligation. Therefore Jobbik proposes that it should be done in Hungary with a binding force. Therefore, if the National Bank obtains profits in similar transactions, it should be obliged to pay this into the budget. It wouldn't be far from me if all of this went into a compensation fund from there to the victims to save as many families as possible. And we can also see that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank was actively involved in the operation of the looting mechanism, but also in the period concerned, only in 2015 it consumed 33 billion forints of public money to carry out its own tasks. Of these, 20 billion are staff-related expenditures, with almost 1300 staff behind them. If only this 33 billion that we spent on them had been used more efficiently, then it is possible that now the foreign exchange credit victims would not be in this much trouble. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[14.40]]
u2017-02-27-194	We also need a Hungarian National Bank, a sovereign National Bank, but in such cases we expect it, and it is their duty to intervene in the interests of Hungarian citizens. The fact is, however, that it was for the purpose of leading the MNB. Obviously, we are not asking for this on simple employees, but managers are being called upon to expand the real estate portfolio, the purchase of art and others in a crazy way, while a large majority of those involved remain on the side of the road. Therefore, this government would have a dog's duty not only to alleviate the housing crisis, but also to take on the problem that Jobbik is now taking on. The problem of the credit-damaged can only be solved by the HUFing of loans at the rate of admission, with a new clearing law. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-02-27-195	To speak after the next agenda, Congressman István Apáti asked: When can the chauffeur from Nyírmegyes return to his family? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, After 13 December 2016, I now have to recall the nightmare story of one of the inhabitants of Nyírmeggyes of my constituency, a good family father with two children, a truck driver who fits the movies. On 27 September 2016, Károly Varga, in the early hours of the evening, drove on the road near the village of Orjol, 120 km from the Russian-Ukrainian border, and, in only partially clarified circumstances to date, went from the back into an allegedly unlighted, Russian-marked small garden machine, the leader of which lost his life on the spot as a result of the accident. However, it is particularly important that, according to expert studies, the Russian driver drove his own small machine with 1.8 thousand units, i.e. a high level of moderate to moderate blood alcohol, i.e. under rather irregular conditions. It is said that even the vodka bottle rolled out onto the road or the side of the road as a result of the accident, and this obviously has something to do with it, it may have a connection in the event of the accident. What happened then, as I said earlier, is appropriate for American films, and unfortunately, the fate of this good Hungarian man has been very bad so far, since from 27 September until 4 October he had to stay in a commercial accommodation, in quasi-voluntary house arrest, since no judgment or decision had yet required him to do so. He could've escaped justice at any time, but he didn't do that. On October 4th, he was then placed in pre-trial detention, and since then he has been in a rather poor quality, allegedly non-compliant Russian prison, every day, every hour; and he is a man who, to put it mildly, is not accustomed to prison life, this is a completely alien life situation for him. He's been a law-abiding life - style all his life, so you can imagine what it's like to be in a Russian prison nearly six months ago with a record like that. During the first six weeks of detention, the Russian judicial authorities, the prosecutor's office, the Russian prison execution, to say the least, crossed the line where it could, nothing helped contact with the legal representative, the consulate or the relatives. It all says that Charles Varga had to wait six weeks to talk to his wife and mother on the phone. This, I feel, is unacceptable at the end of 2016, a serious violation of all international conventions, in my opinion. And what is shocking, ladies and gentlemen, is particularly incompatible with the Hungarian concept of law, is that it is not about a fatal road accident, so it is about a thorough suspicion of a traffic crime, but about reckless manslaughter. Otherwise, it's reckless homicide, as it has been discovered since then, because it's the only way to get him arrested in advance - so that they can keep him there to this day, because he couldn't even be put in custody or placed there with a criminal record of a traffic crime. Then, from 4 November to 28 November, a hearing was postponed at which 500 thousand rubles would have been released for payment or deposit of approximately 2.5 million forints. It was approved on November 28. On 2 December, the first instance decision was withdrawn for the appeal of the widow of the deceased Russian driver, so it remained in advance. But I note that the Russian legal environment is such that even if the family had put down the sum of HUF 2.5 million in rubles, they would not have allowed it home to Hungary, but should have waited for the continuation of the procedure in Russia in a designated place, quasi house arrest or with a ban on leaving home, without the possibility of working, without language skills. We are now at the point that he is still under pre-trial arrest, and he has been offered this family of birch cherries, who are in difficulty, financially, emotionally and emotionally bled out, by paying 600,000 rubles, or 3 million forints for compensation, because according to Russian law, if a person is acquitted of such a case in criminal proceedings, he and his family will still have to pay compensation. In this case, too, you can receive any sentence from acquittal to imprisonment, but it is taken into account as an extenuating circumstance, which I note is typically a police and judge trick, that otherwise it can be a quasi-acceptance, and in this case, perhaps according to established Russian practice, you will receive as much as you have done in advance. But there's no guarantee of that. So pay 3 million forints, and then we'll get something. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I know that the State Department is correct in informing the family, personally as a representative of me, I know that they are doing a lot of things, but I am asking you to use all your influence at the highest level, even up to the Prime Minister, in order for this good driver to be able to return home as soon as possible. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-27-196	So the main question is what else they can do, what else they want to do. Can you help the family with the possible payment of HUF 3 million? When can this good family man with two children come home to Nyírmölgyes? Thank you very much.
u2017-02-27-197	Secretary of State János Fónagy has indicated that he wishes to reply. Mr. Secretary of State has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Based on information from the Ministry of Justice, allow me to inform you of the legal options and to begin by saying that, as you said, the Ministry and other bodies are, of course, trying to move forward in this matter. At the same time, I would like to make it clear that the Ministry of Justice has not received a request regarding the detention of the driver of Nyírölgyes in Russia, either from the driver or from the Russian or other authorities. As you said, a Hungarian citizen caused a road accident in Russia, Russian authorities prosecuted him, so there is no international criminal law element in this case that would allow for an extradition request or other legal aid in criminal matters. The Hungarian authorities do not have the power to review the justification and thoroughness of the criminal proceedings in Russia, including the justification for prior detention. The only way to do that, as you said, is by diplomatic means. [[Dr. István Apáti: But they won't give it to me.]] The Hungarian authorities have the opportunity to take action in a given circle, if the Russians were to ask Hungary for legal aid; if the driver were sentenced to a final prison sentence, he could ask and ask that he serve the sentence of imprisonment in Hungary; or if he were to be prosecuted in Hungary against the driver, on the basis of which the Minister of Justice would ask for his release. In this case, however, the Russian authorities could refuse extradition on the grounds that they are prosecuting. It is also an opportunity for the Russian authorities to offer Hungary the possibility of taking over the criminal proceedings; this falls within the discretion of the Attorney General. But they won't hand it over. [[Dr. István Apáti: Maybe that's the problem.]] At the same time, a contract signed between Hungary and Russia in 1958 on legal aid in criminal matters is in force. , on the basis of Article 56 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, it is possible to take part in criminal proceedings. At the request of the Russian authorities, the Hungarian Attorney General is obliged to examine the possibility of taking over the criminal proceedings. To this end, if it considers it appropriate, the Hungarian Attorney General may contact the Russian Attorney General's Office in order to offer Hungary the opportunity to prosecute. The transfer of criminal proceedings, as I mentioned earlier, depends on the discretionary decision of the Russian Attorney General's Office. [[14.50]]
u2017-02-27-198	The driver has the opportunity to request consular assistance in Russia on the basis of an agreement on consular relations. This includes contacts between the Consul and the driver, including written and telephone contact and personal visits, the transmission of judicial and out-of-court documents, the provision of representation before Russian courts and authorities, if for some reason the driver cannot defend his rights in time and any other assistance that is in accordance with Hungarian and Russian law. That's the normal interpretation of the thing. At the same time, this case is known to the Ministry of Justice and we trust that the necessary steps will be taken. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-27-199	Thank you. After the last agenda, MEP Zoltán Magyar applied: without immediate intervention, hundreds of families of vineyards in Kecel and its region will be in danger of being killed. You have the floor, Congressman. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Last week, on Thursday, at the invitation of my fellow Member Gergely Farkas, we held a residential forum in Kecel, where, in addition to the general agricultural problems, we were also reminded of a local, extremely serious case, but since the problems identified here are not only local specific, but are indeed true for half the country, I would now, instead of my fellow Member Gergely Farkas, be speaking and complementing it. This winery in Kecel and its region, which is now in trouble, has a serious capacity, a serious supplier's place where the vineyards in the area could sell their crops and get what was rightfully due. Indeed, for this basement economy in Central Hungary - Kunságért Szövetkezet és two or three other companies, which are registered there - we do not know exactly what the problem is, but according to the news, some of its leaders are sitting in advance, and even if they continue to make payments, the future is very uncertain. Vineyards in the region are terrified that, like the previous disaster of Borker, the story will end up another failure, which may result in no place to transport the grapes. Even last year, we saw that the various wineries did not accept the grapes produced at a fair price on the grounds that they were clogged, their capacity was not enough for processing, and when they were forced to deliver the grapes produced at a price of ten forints, these capacities were interestingly released. There's a lot of uncertainty, conflicting information. I do not expect the government to give us details of a current ongoing investigation, but what we expect and expect from the vineyards is that this uncertainty will be eliminated both in the current problem and in similar cases that are returning year after year. Moreover, the company concerned has received EUR 1.3 million of EU funds for development, so it certainly does not stop the plant from being competitive. The vineyards said that some of the grapes delivered in 2016 had not yet been paid off at all, and that some of them had not even received one forint, while at least the first details should have arrived by 15 December. They would expect a guarantee from the vineyards and we would expect the price they agreed to receive after the grapes they brought in. Although this does not cover their costs, it must also be said, this is also a recurring problem every year, that they are often forced to dispose of the grapes they produce. Therefore, we would certainly expect the payment of suppliers, and we would ask for guarantees. However, what goes on and is very important for the future: I would not like to experience it once again in the Great Plain or elsewhere, so that if such a modern, renovated capacity fails, and God does not give you the result, let us say, of bankruptcy, then we will see that for pennies, the plant will be dismantled. Indeed, in this case, the State must intervene, and there are opportunities in the European Union, so there are ways of doing so, while our membership exists, and there are opportunities for the State to take over the cellar that has gone bankrupt in this way, in this case, to ensure that the vineyard can continue to be delivered, and that the purchaser is also interested in paying this price in a timely manner, with a view to ensuring that the vine grower himself has an interest in producing the vineyard at a fair price and in a fair quality. Only this model can be one of the models taken from Western Europe, which is viable, sustainable and which Jobbik could accept in this case as well. Only with such solutions can it be imagined that it is not up to some gamblers to get the fair price for the grapes delivered. Of course, above the present case, there is no Turkish staff, we do not know what exactly is behind the criminal proceedings, but it is certain that the vineyards did not receive the rightful income for their grapes. It is also insane that, in Hungary, they still pay for the fruit produced only after three months, and we also know that the Nebih would have the opportunity to filter out the Italian waffle, both technologically prepared for this in terms of the Nebih and the legislation. Quite simply, we find that some government firms can do anything, bring in any amount of counterfeit wine, there is no consequence. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-27-200	We expect a meaningful answer to these points. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-02-27-201	I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, He raised several questions, the starting point of which was the fall of Kecel and a wine company in Kecel. We, as well as the government, are aware that there is a police procedure in place against an undertaking engaged in a major acquisition activity, its managers are where they are, and the company's activities are suspended. If the company fails economically, the congressman must be well aware of the rules of liquidation, the order of satisfaction. As tragic as it is, this obviously also applies to this situation. However, the Member mentioned the possible role of the state in this. Since 2010, the government has taken a number of measures to improve the situation of vine producers. This also applies to the settlement of spring frost damage and the functioning of the compensation fund; the Member also mentioned the negative impact of incoming low quality imported wines and the significant government measures taken to counter this. The issue of wine products imported into Hungary for further processing or presentation is continuously monitored by the Ministry of Agriculture. As a result of consistent official action, the significant imports of Italian wine between 2011 and 2014, which were still more than 356 thousand hectolitres in 2014, decreased by more than 50 percent by 2015. With regard to foreign wine products, Nébihet was mentioned, 188 administrative measures were taken in 2016, of which 105 were purely imported wine samples and laboratory tests. In the course of the marketing authorisation, 44 applications have been rejected by the wine authority and the procedure is therefore tightening and toughening. The Member added that cooperation and the intervention of vine producers can improve the situation in these events. Together with the National Council of Mountains, the Ministry of Agriculture continuously monitors the development of vine prices. From this it was concluded that at a buying-in price lower than the average price between 72 and 110 HUF, newly planted grape varieties have been purchased mainly in recent years. However, it should be added that new grape varieties can be produced at a lower cost of production and with a higher yield, so that the possible price per kilo is not accompanied by a corresponding lower yield value. Otherwise, the yield of these varieties is significantly better due to their resistance to disease. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Let's trust him.]] We agree and agree that government measures must be complemented by sectoral cooperation, exploitation of the potential of integration, and the Ministry of Agriculture intends to actively participate in the real implementation of this through an agreement with the National Council of Mountains. In the framework of this, the National Council of Mountains announced last week that it was preparing the rules for buying grapes. Within the regulatory framework of the European Union, the National Council of Mountains, as an interbranch organisation, will develop interbranch rules on the form and content of the contract, making the wine grape market more predictable and orderly.
u2017-02-27-202	Let's trust him. Thank you very much. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 6 March 2017. [[The meeting ended at 15.00.]]
