u2017-10-18-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 11th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Mr Attila Móring and Mr Nándor Gúr will be here to assist me in leading this meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, The report and the report of the Hungarian National Bank on the year 2016 and the joint general debate on the proposal for a decision on its adoption will follow. Report submitted by the Hungarian National Bank B/15351. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Economic Committee, H/17753. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, Allow me to welcome Mr György Matolcsy, President of the Hungarian National Bank, to the hearing. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr György Matolcsy, President of the Hungarian National Bank, author of the report, in a 30-minute time frame. At the same time, I respectfully welcome your fellow workers.
u2017-10-18-1	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the opportunity. Let me begin by saying that, as Hungary and the Hungarian government, the Hungarian central bank, the Hungarian National Bank, closed a great year in 2016. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank fulfilled its legal obligation and fulfilled all three tasks in its mandate, thus maintaining price stability, maintaining financial stability and supporting the government's successful, growth-oriented, employment-enhancing economic policy. As every month and every year since spring 2013, the Hungarian National Bank has followed a successful merger central bank policy, in which there was room for Orthodox and unorthodox steps, traditional and non-traditional central bank policies. Together, they achieved that the Hungarian National Bank fulfilled the mandates in part, and achieved a number of special results in part. This is what I consider to be the complete turn of credit, which took place in 2016 in the Hungarian economy; both corporate credit and family and household credit have been expanded again. This is a complete turn of credit and a complete turn of credit. He could participate with all the programmes and policies of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank in the turn that all the credit rating agencies, all three credit rating agencies, once again classified Hungary in the category recommended for the investment. In addition, at the request of the Prime Minister of Hungary, the Hungarian Central Bank carried out a full competitiveness analysis, and presented the results to the government in a book of Competitiveness and Growth, and made a series of proposals. Many of these have already been adopted and decided by the government. In 2016, the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank restarted the base interest rate reduction cycle, setting the central bank's base rate at a total of 45 basis points to 0.9 percent - a historical low point. Since 1924 the Bank of Hungary, the National Bank of Hungary, has been operating in Hungary, now the lowest level of the central bank base rate. It's value, it's self-worth, it's success. Ladies and Gentlemen, I also consider it a serious success that the Hungarian National Bank introduced a quantitative limit that gave a ceiling on the assets placed in the central bank, a three-month asset, which also meant that the central bank had kept less money and that banks had issued more loans or purchased sovereign debt. Similarly, it is a very serious success to note that in Hungary, both short and long yields have decreased significantly. It is almost astounding that long sovereign debt yields were able to decrease by 480 basis points in 2016, an economically more than astounding, incredibly good result, and short yields also decreased by 670 basis points. This means that the Hungarian public finances calculated a HUF 500 billion lower interest expenditure in 2016 compared to the previous year, e.g. the 2013 base year. In 2013-2016 the interest payment on Hungarian government debt decreased by HUF 1000 billion. This HUF 1000 billion is here in the country, we have it here, it has become consumption, it has become a construction, it has become an investment, and it is not primarily the profit of foreign financial investors. With the help of Hungary's central bank - not alone, but with the help of Hungary - the interest payment on Hungarian government debt is already HUF 1600 billion lower. This also indicates the effectiveness of a new monetary policy combining traditional and non-traditional central bank assets. Similarly, I consider it a major turnaround that the foreign exchange ratio of public debt fell to 25 per cent in 2016. We also remember the period around 2010 when Hungary was ranked among the ten most vulnerable countries in the world in terms of the financial system, for example because of the high level of public debt and the high foreign exchange ratio within it. In 2016, the growth credit programme continued, one of the most valuable and successful programmes of the Hungarian Central Bank. Only in 2016, until the end of 2016 more than 30,000 companies received credit, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, and some HUF 2600 billion of loans were granted, but if I count the entire programme, 2017 then some 40,000 Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises received a cheap, long-term investment loan and revolving asset loan worth approximately HUF 2800 billion. [[9.10]] If you think about the fact that after the turn of corporate lending, the corporate loan portfolio in Hungary is over HUF 6000 billion, then you can see how strong the amount allocated under the HUF 2800 billion growth loan programme is, and how high its share is within the entire corporate loan portfolio. Between 2013 and 2016, according to the calculations of the Central Bank, the growth credit programme increased the gross domestic product, GDP, of the Hungarian economy by around 2 percent. We were also able to help and expand employment with tens of thousands of people. Ladies and Gentlemen, We also launched a market loan programme, which was more successful by 50 percent, so to say, the bank commitments exceeded the initial commitments by 50 percent, and an additional loan of HUF 300 billion was made instead of HUF 195 billion. It stopped at the same time, and this is very good news, a reduction in household and family credit. This clearly indicates that families have dealt with a series of shocks imposed on them by the foreign exchange lending of former governments after 2002 and re-trusted themselves, partly in the financial system. In 2016, we launched the Housing Market Monitor on a six-month basis, because we believe that the central bank's obligation is to monitor the housing market in general, the real estate market, including housing lending, since we have had a very poor experience after 2002. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Magyar Nemzeti Bank has already been integrated into the central bank by the National Assembly, and I believe that due to its right decision, it has integrated the supervisory activity into the central bank. The supervision is strengthened, it operates at a very high professional level. In 2016, he carried out so-called prudential supervision of 1608 financial institutions. This in itself is a great number, but the quality of supervision has changed. The quality of the supervision is no longer an afterthought, I may recognize that there is a problem, but we find a preventive, possible troubles and risks forecasting operation. In addition, in the first half of 2016, the Financial Stability Board decided to launch the work aimed at introducing an immediate payment system in Hungary. It's gonna be a big hit. This is only in the decision preparation phase, but I can predict that it is progressing well, progressing rapidly, and that the immediate payment system will enter into force in Hungary according to the plans and schedule. In 2016, the Hungarian National Bank paid a dividend of HUF 50 billion after the outstanding positive result of the previous year of HUF 95 billion. This was good news, and it is also very good news that you put an additional HUF 54 billion in the profit reserve. This means that the Hungarian central bank already has a high surplus reserve of over HUF 100 billion, currently around HUF 160 billion, in view of the year 2017. This is also a historical achievement, and I think it is a basis for safe operation. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, The Hungarian National Bank is part of the Hungarian state. The central bank would not have been able to achieve any of its outlined results in 2016 without a wide, well-functioning federal net, as it has not done in any year since 2013. We have established very good cooperation with the government, other institutions of the state, Parliament committees, the business sector and especially with the banking system in 2016, as we have done every year since 2013 and this year. Coherence, cooperation, joint work, joint development and joint implementation of the programmes were without exception the basis, basis and guarantee of all our results in 2016. I think that this in itself is the most important value in 2016 and every year since 2013 that, therefore, in Hungary, price stability, financial stability, growth, employment and all the turns that we have achieved can be implemented by a state and market, government and central bank, banking and business sector in a strong cooperation, in a federal cooperation based on trust. Your Honour, Mr. President. These bright, shiny cards. However, in 2016, there was a range, an area that would certainly wish for the black, dark pages of the Hungarian economic history, including the central bank's story. This is the series of political attacks launched by a party of the Hungarian Parliament, the Hungarian Socialist Party [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Continue, believe me.]] against the Hungarian National Bank. Unprecedented, unprecedented in Europe [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Against you and not against the bank!]] in Western democracy, it is unprecedented that a political party, and a political party represented in Parliament, launches a political attack on the central bank; they have not been able to express professional criticism, they have not been able to express such criticism, but only [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Against your president!]] against the central bank, the president of the central bank and the family of the central bank [[Dr. László Kács: Family? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Does the central bank have a family?]] There's been a political attack. Even this, so to speak, would be understandable on the basis of the history of this opposition party, but it is in no way understandable and in no way acceptable that all political attacks were based on lies without exception. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Haha, you didn't deny any!]] Every attack was based on a lie. Let us bring up some lies, some campaigns from 2016, launched by MSZP against Hungary's central bank! [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Will there be a violin in it?]] Not against a micro-company, but against one of the most important players in the Hungarian economy. Yes, for example, that the Hungarian central bank bought a violin. He didn't buy a violin. It was a lie, from the first moment, everyone knew. They continued for months. The other is that the President of the Central Bank lives in the home of the President of the Banking Association. Everybody knew it was a lie. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: We didn't know and they didn't deny it! He didn't deny it once!]] It's not true, it's false; everyone knew it. While, in the end, UniCredit Bank, the employer of the President of the Banking Association, found in an internal investigation that there was no such thing, it was a lie. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You did the bank quite a favor. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Then, of course, the Hungarian Socialist Party within the framework of political attacks [[Intercoms from Fidesz: Take your time. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I'm calm, I'm just answering.]] accused the President of the Central Bank of personally and his family of stealing the assets of the Central Bank Foundations. That's a good statement, since it's HUF 267 billion. It's a big amount. Everyone knew it was a lie. Every minute, day after day, week after week. Of course, the HUF 267 billion is not only there, but it is already HUF 270 billion in wealth expansion, while nearly HUF 6 billion in scientific, research and educational support was provided by the foundations, about 1,200 projects. [[9.20]] And they continued this for months, quarter, all of 2016. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: As I recall, I won the lawsuit legally.]] Similarly, this opposition party claimed in a series of unprecedented political attacks, once again, that a family member of the President of the Central Bank received HUF 500 million from central bank foundations as the owner of a vs.hu news portal. Everyone knew all along, because they had to look at the stock book, that for a moment there was no family member of this company, which received support from the central bank foundations. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Only to the offshore company!]] And they went on and on. Everyone knew it was a lie, but the political attack continued. Similarly, ladies and gentlemen, this opposition party has come to the point where it has questioned the right of the President of the Central Bank and his family to borrow from any of the family members as entrepreneurs, to invest in buying a company, to run as a Hungarian business, for example, a family member with whom I do not live in the same household, in the European Union tender system. They questioned the right to participate in the functioning of the market economy in Hungary with the name of the President of the Central Bank. It's almost unbelievable. But once again, knowing this party's record, it's not as shocking as it looks at first. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I must also say that a political attack on a national bank in itself, a central bank, is condemned. Everyone thinks so, the laws in the European Union are clear. The political attack on all central banks is outside the operational logic of parliaments and democracy. Yes, only this party used its political presence for political attack. Therefore, the central bank and the President of the Central Bank have the right to ask once what political performance this party has. Because we saw that his professional performance on the steering wheel was minus, very big minus. The Hungarian economy has been destroyed, many, many zeroes have been added to the public debt, the general government deficit, the unemployment rate; their government performance is minus. But what is their political performance? In 2016, they decided to launch an attack on the Hungarian State, as the central bank is part of the state. Well, zero! Ladies and Gentlemen, The political performance of the Hungarian Socialist Party is zero in 2016 in the light of the central bank. Obviously, everyone will draw conclusions on this in the coming months. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I'm sure you'll have to politicalize the president of the independent central bank.]] Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, As President of the Hungarian National Bank, I was proud and happy to stand before you. The Hungarian State operates, as part of the Hungarian State, the Hungarian National Bank is effective, and in very nice cooperation with the government, the rest of the state, the business sector, the banking sector and the families can continue to fulfil all of its statutory tasks in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-18-2	Thank you very much, President Matolcsy. Dear Parliament, Before I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, I would like to ask Mr Gergely Bárándy to make a note of his angry remarks and to present them in his speech. I give the floor to Dénes Galambos, rapporteur of the Economic Committee, author of the proposal for a decision. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I have a point of order, Mr. President.]] I'm not giving you the floor. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Order of business?]] Later. I gave the floor to Dénes Pigeon first.
u2017-10-18-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice President, Dear House, The National Assembly is present not only as a legislator in the Hungarian public law system, but also as a controller. In this capacity, the government controls several independent organizations, including the Hungarian National Bank and its operation. Every year, the National Bank is obliged to report to the National Assembly on its activities. This obligation was also fulfilled by the MNB for 2016. At its meeting held on 10 October 2017, the Economic Committee discussed its report and report on the activities of the Hungarian National Bank last year, and decided to submit to this House a proposal for a decision before you. Based on this report, the National Assembly now has to assess the activities of the Central Bank in the previous year. The Hungarian National Bank cannot perform its tasks successfully without cooperating with the government. The two organisations will only be able to shape economic policy effectively through united action. As President György Matolcsy indicated in his previous expo, the relationship and cooperation continued to be unbroken and constructive with the government during 2016. We can safely say that this relationship has been working well and effectively since March 2013. Dear House, On the basis of the report, it is clear that the MNB fulfilled all three of its tasks as required by the Central Bank Act last year. It maintained the stability of the forint exchange rate, participated in maintaining the stability of the financial intermediary system and contributed to the preservation of economic growth. The report shows that the consumer price index remained below the 3% target for price stability. Annual average inflation in 2016 was 0.4 per cent. Here I consider it important to mention that gross average earnings increased by more than 6 percent last year, while net average earnings increased by almost 8 percent over a year due to changes in personal income tax rules. This means that due to the low level of inflation, Hungarian families recorded a significant increase in income last year, real income rose by nearly 7.5 percent. The vulnerability of the financial intermediary system has decreased significantly. As a result of active central bank engagement, the share of non-performing loans has been further reduced. The lending activity of banks has also increased in the retail and corporate segments, and the credit dynamics of the annual SME and SME sector have reached the level of 5-10 percent needed for sustainable growth. The effectiveness of the MNB's operation is well demonstrated by the fact that 19 new investigations were launched last year, with the closure of five previous procedures, and as a result of the checks an official fine of more than HUF 60 million was imposed. The new Hungarian economic model, the basis of which was laid by Mr President as Minister of Economic Affairs after 2010, led Hungary to success. Since 2013, the central bank has actively supported the government's economic policy for the first time by launching the growth credit programme, followed by the growth support credit programme as of 1 January 2016. As Mr President pointed out in his expo just now, before the conclusion of the growth credit programme in 2017, the results show that there has been a dynamic in the financing of the SME sector which has contributed significantly to the acquisition of the capital of these companies and thus of the machinery, tools and equipment needed for their businesses. I think that this was a particularly successful result of the NHP programme and a transfer sheet for businesses to learn in 2017 to adapt to the fact that different proposals no longer operate only out of support but in combination with credit schemes; see the latter proposals for GINOP applications. In other words, the transfer - although it will obviously be refuted from the opposition side - started to launch normal bank lending after the launch of the NHP programme to an extent that, in addition to the interest rate policy, can already provide a realistic level of interest rate. Due to the sustained relaxation of monetary conditions, the government's interest savings amounted to HUF 500 billion in 2016. Between 2013 and 2016 HUF 1000 billion of interest was saved. [[9.30]] Dear House, I would like to highlight some of the results of the report, which we also discussed at the Economic Committee meeting. We have already discussed inflation, interest reduction and the growth credit programme, but I would like to get back to this. The base rate, although slowing down compared to previous years, decreased by 45 basis points last year. With this, the central bank's base rate reached another historic low, 0.9 percent. Thanks to the government's economic recovery measures and the central bank's credit programme, we achieved a 2 percent increase in GDP last year, thus exceeding the average of both the euro area and the EU as a whole. I am not talking about the NHP now, as Mr President has also quantified the number of businesses and the financing amount of some HUF 2800 billion. The success of the NHP programme in the year 2017 in the year 16 and the first half of the year 17 should not be analysed in any particular way, I think. The 2008 economic crisis was also particularly detrimental to Hungary because the domestic banking system was particularly vulnerable in view of foreign exchange lending due to high central bank base rates. With the assistance of the MNB, the issuance of foreign exchange loans was also successful. The lending activity of the banks has intensified, and I have already referred to this, together with the SME sector. External risks increased in 2016, despite years of weak performance of the eurozone economy, the Hungarian economy remains on the growth path. Systemic risks have been further reduced. As a result, credit rating agencies continued to improve our country's classification last year. The report also shows that the Hungarian National Bank has effectively complied with its audit obligation in the last year, since 126 prudential and 36 market surveillance investigations were launched last year and 129 prudential and 50 market surveillance investigations were completed. The measures imposed nearly HUF 1.2 billion of prudential institutional fines, more than HUF 200 million of prudential personal fines, and nearly 3.9 billion market surveillance and supervision fines. Dear House, The role of the Hungarian National Bank was further strengthened in the field of consumer protection last year. The report shows that in 2016, the majority of the tasks were related to the clearing of foreign currency loans and the modification of contracts. At the same time, consumers have now learned about this range of activities of the central bank, as last year, the customer service at the Financial Consumer Protection Centre received more than 40,000 customer service requests and requests. As of 1 January 2016, as a result of the development carried out at the initiative of the central bank, all forint transfers requiring settlement on a paper basis in credit institutions were processed in the intraday settlement system of the interbank clearing system instead of the night settlement used earlier. In other words, this accelerated inter-bank transfers and served the interests of consumers. Everyone has experienced in recent years that our currency, the forint, is being renewed, more modern, safer banknotes are being placed on the market. The MNB started the replacement of HUF 10 000 of the six paper labels in circulation and the exchange of the 1000 and 500 denominations will take place next year. Ladies and gentlemen, As rapporteur for the Committee on Economic Affairs, it can be seen from what Mr President said and from what I said, representing the Committee's post, that the Central Bank has also performed its role exemplaryly in 2016. So for my part, through Mr Vice-President, I can say to Mr President that I wish him a similarly successful and successful year next year. At its meeting in October 2017, the Economic Committee supported the proposal for a decision by 9 votes and 4 votes in favour and submitted it to Parliament. Then, on behalf of Fidesz, I would like to talk about the part of social responsibility in my speech as a keynote speaker. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-18-4	Thank you very much, Congressman Dénes Pigeon. I'll give the floor to Gergely Bárándy's point of order in a moment.
u2017-10-18-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, I asked for the floor before, by the way, as you spoke to my fellow Member before me. I would like to propose that Mr President take a break now and make sure that President György Matolcsy comes back here, at least for his own accounts. My reasons are as follows. Mr President, It is deeply offensive to Parliament's authority that the person who is required to report as the President of the Central Bank tells the Expo and leaves the Chamber and leaves his vice-president to represent him. This can be done in the debate on a bill, it can be done on an immediate question, but when you keep your personal report, I think you can't. I do not recall such an unprecedented incident, Mr President, and it violates the authority of Parliament. Recall that the President of the Curia, the Attorney General, the President of the OBH, the Ombudsman and everyone else are present, except György Matolcsy. I find it outrageous! Thank you. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew: That's right! Applause in the MSZP fraction.]]
u2017-10-18-6	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Bárándy. I do not consider his point of order speech to be a point of order, nor do I order a recess or a vote on this. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Why not?]] However, thank you for giving me the opportunity to welcome Vice-President Márton Nagy, who is sitting here fully on behalf of the National Bank. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. Dear Parliament, The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You can comment on this by faction.]] It is available; look at the rules of the house, it can only be given, but I do not give the floor, because I do not consider it a point of order. I give the floor to Dénes Pigeon, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew intervenes.]]
u2017-10-18-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr. President. Dear House,
u2017-10-18-8	Just a moment, please. Just a moment, please, Congressman Pigeon. I told you that you were obviously paying attention to the right to represent the Hungarian National Bank by Vice-President Márton Nagy, whom I especially welcomed. You have the floor, Congressman Pigeon. If you think so, please contact the House Committee with your complaints. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: We will do so, you can be sure of that. Dr. Zsolt Legény: In his capacity as a housekeeper, he presides over the meeting.]] Congressman Pigeon, you have the floor.
u2017-10-18-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice President, [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2017-10-18-10	Congressman! With all due respect to Members of the MSZP, there is no need to warn you that it should not be the result of me excluding you from today's sitting if you disturb our work by yelling at you. You have the floor, Congressman Pigeon.
u2017-10-18-11	Thank you. As I have indicated, this House, in my previous speech on the Economic Committee's post, which was also the majority position of the Committee, the Fidesz-KDNP faction association, I would also like to address the issue that I dealt with at the committee meeting, on which President György Matolcsy spoke at the committee meeting. I do not wish to return and repeat my statements on the presentation of the position of the Economic Commission, but there is a subject that is related to the two speeches. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the importance of strengthening and supporting the economic policies of the central bank and the government. The central bank would not be able to fulfil its monetary tasks without it, and the government's economic policy would not be successful if the Hungarian National Bank did not support it. The issue of the profitability of the central bank is an important issue. At committee meetings and at other times, through immediate questions from interpellation to immediate questions, the opposition has repeatedly attacked the MNB to ask whether it is worth asking whether a central bank's task is to keep its own management in order. The answer is yes. [[9.40]] According to the Fidesz fraction, this is not only a possible goal, but also a duty. This would have been the task of the former central bank governors. If the central bank were to operate smoothly, it would also be a step forward compared to the period in 2013 and to the period before that, since at that time there were two years when the loss of the central bank approached and even exceeded HUF 40 billion. This money must have been raised by the budget, because no one was moaning from the other side at the time. Now that the central bank is operating profitably, everyone would like to distribute this money. The other issue worth talking about is the amount of foreign reserves. Before the crisis, in the spring of 2017, Hungary's foreign reserves amounted to EUR 17 billion, which had to be increased to close to 40 billion due to the crisis. The MNB follows the rules of the European Central Bank in this respect. The amount of foreign currency corresponding to one year's external liabilities shall be available; this shall be provided. Thanks to the domestic measures taken to tackle the crisis and the efforts to reduce Hungary's foreign exchange debt, this rate has now fallen to around EUR 24 billion. Dear House, As Mr President indicated in his exposé, the MNB generated more than HUF 54 billion in 2016, mainly due to the positive development of interest rates and financial operations. Mr President also indicated that last year the central bank paid 50 billion forints of dividends into the budget. During your administration, between 2003 and 2010, the National Bank gave a zero-forint dividend into the budget, with a profit before dividend payment of HUF 78 billion in 2003 and HUF 66 billion in 2009. At the meeting of the Economic Committee, I also explained another important element of the Central Bank report, which is also debated from the opposition side, to say the least, they are debating and attacking the Hungarian National Bank's use of the results of its successful management for good and socially useful purposes. Through the foundations set up by the MNB, I think that the objective is to play a leading role in the renewal of the training of economic and financial professionals without taking over the state's activities in the field of higher education in this respect. In this view, the central bank founded a department at the Corvinus University, and as a result of the cooperation, within the master department of economic analysts, the specialization of central bank analysts was launched, and after several years of break, several courses, regional and environmental economics, and new training profiles were launched. The MNB has concluded cooperation agreements with seven higher education institutions across the country, including the University of Miskolc and the University of János Neumann in Kecskemét. As a Kecskemét campus, I use the latter as a good example of the activities of the MNB Foundations, since in Kecskemét technical higher education also results in a high-tech technique such as automotive manufacturing and world-class electromobility activities, and in comparison to the related automotive activities, there is no question of this. And this activity - see the example of the campus in Kecskemét - is definitely appreciated positively. At the same time, the scholarship application programme has also been launched to support young people in disadvantaged regions. More than 400 students of 25 higher education institutions have also received scholarships under the Excellence Scholarship Programme. Ladies and gentlemen, The second attack surface, which is almost daily, is the topic of great art works created by outstanding Hungarian artists. I think it is worth reading the report of the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank, which was prepared in the framework of the evaluation of the Value Reserve programme, and I recommend it to your attention. The example that I think is right to quote is highlighted in the report. The aim is that works of art that can be kept at home may require all efforts, and I believe that similar legislation is in place for the French, German and Austrian central banks, as well as for the Italian and Spanish central banks, under which the activities relating to the arts are also exercised by the central banks of these countries, which are not very young and have few traditions. In January 2014, the MNB set up the Value Reserve Programme and its primary aim is to recover foreign-owned art, and here I have indicated the examples for which I believe that this activity of the Hungarian National Bank is not unique. I would like to conclude my speech as a keynote speaker, Honourable House, by saying that, according to our position, the Fidesz-KNDP faction, the Hungarian National Bank fulfilled its legal tasks last year and successfully carried out its activities in the interests of the Hungarian people. I would like to thank Mr President, Mr Vice-President, for the full management of the Central Bank and all its employees for this activity. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-18-12	Thank you very much, Congressman Dénes Pigeon. Dear Parliament, The Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party indicated that two speakers presented the group's position within a 30-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Congressman László Szakács.
u2017-10-18-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I think this report is in a kind, family-friendly mood, and it has been talking about such great successes here, President Matolcsy. Before he stormed off, I would like to record this only for the minutes: at 9:25, the President of the Hungarian National Bank left his own report, which is basically ignoring Parliament, but this is how he does it. Péter Polt doesn't do that, the Ombudsman doesn't do that, the head of the National Court Office doesn't do that, only Matolcsy does it, President Matolcsy does this: he leaves Mr. Vice President, who, according to press reports, is actually in charge of the National Bank. By the way, György Matolcsy demonstrates that he is actually just a window person bringing these communication turns to us in the House, trying to turn Parliament into a flea circus. We're not going to react to them now. It's all been there, there's red dots, there's been talk of advent in the auditions. There was a conqueror attacking the National Bank of Hungary, it was not us at the time, but it was a NATO Member State with an embassy in Hungary, which attacked the National Bank of Hungary, then it was not the Socialist Party that attacked the National Bank. And now that he's related to everyone... These things are - I hope that you know that, so at least you have not been misled by György Matolcsy - so that we do not talk about the real issues. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Anita Heringes enter the room. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Where is Matolcsy? Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Girls!]] And so we believe that these things should be revived after all. We will not now do President Matolcsy the favor of answering the suggestions he has made. I'm just wondering, basically, if there are such bright successes and bright days behind the MNB that Matolcsy was talking about, then why isn't the entire Fidesz fraction here to praise. Why doesn't he listen to the debate about this? [[Lajos Korózs intervenes.]] And why don't you tell me again how brilliant your success is? Because there are no bright successes, Mr. Vice President. You know that, and the Fidesz faction knows that. The fact that the Hungarian National Bank has 95 plus 54 billion forints in its account means that they could eat 54 billion forints in the profit reserve, which is what Hungarians should be afraid of. The reason you're really afraid of this is because you don't know what you're going to spend it on again. Is he going to lose his public finances again? Will they put it back in the foundations where the way they operate is, in general, a criminal category? [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Yes, signatures are on an adventurous path, honourable Members, to the decisions of the founders, to the decision of the founder instead of the curatorium, to the decision of the chairman of the board, and of course to answer these things. [[9.50]] It is no coincidence that, when certain things work this way, it is only in terms of transparency, transparency and traceability, Mr Vice-President, if this is the way things work, then Matolcsy really has one thing left to do, like that the entire family of Chief Prosecutor Péter Polt should work at the Hungarian National Bank and depend on it existentially. 266 billion forints is a lot of money! That's a lot of money, and that really could have done what we said for years, it didn't happen last year, that's not what the report is about. It could have been paid into the budget as a dividend, and it could have been spent on things that were actually the problem of Hungarians, such as health care, education, social issues, wage increases or pension increases. In terms of wage increases, you were excellent, but earlier, György Matolcsy, who now bravely ran away from the discussion of the report, was the leading fighter of not being insufferably large salaries that exceed HUF 2 million per month. They shouldn't be like that. Now he told me at last week's committee meeting that it was scandalous that I thought that he made a scandalous amount of money: he made 5 million forints. [[To István Nagy Márton:]] And you guys, I think it's 5,000 less. [[Lajos Korózs: If that's all you're earning...]] He makes five million forints a month! Then I would ask you to socialize this idea, come to us in South Hungary, or go to North-East Hungary, and explain it to people who do not earn the average, earn well below the average, where they are pushing each other aside for 150,000 gross, for 150,000 gross! Explain to these people why they think I'm being scandalously political. Why do you think I consider your wages to be scandalously high? Why don't you come over there and explain, socialize this idea, Mr. Vice President? [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: He's right!]] György Matolcsy should not run away from these questions, he should also come to the people, leaving his bodyguards at home. Come and explain this to people who, for 130 to 150 thousand grosses, step on each other's heels, just make sure they have something to do. Come and tell him not to lose 266 billion forints of public money. Do not try to make a law on this, which you will later be thinking about by the Constitutional Court, which you will then state as one of the biggest undertakings of the Hungarian National Bank, the most progressive and most prestigious undertaking that raises Hungarians to financial awareness! These are the foundations that concluded 112 contracts in total and 66 of them were the Public Procurement Arbitration Committee that punished you. To what financial awareness, who raises who here, Mr. Vice President? ! Well, no wonder Matolcsy's running away at this hour, of course he doesn't like to hear these. Don't joke about these things, please. Once again, financial supervision has hardly been mentioned. This is not one of the bright successes ever since. It's embarrassing for everyone in this room. It's because we're being told their problems are the currency-damaged, the brokers' scandal victims, and you're being run away from them. If György Matolcsy commits to the sentence he said at the meeting of the Economic Committee that he will always be opposed to any so-called victim, as he said, cynically, Mr. Vice-President, whatever satisfaction the Hungarian National Bank may gain from its profits, he will always be against it, and if we draft such a bill, he will always argue against it, that is your policy! I'm very sorry, by the way, for putting the ruling faction in this position, which is talking about social responsibility. This isn't social responsibility. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: This is embarrassing!]] This is quite simply a cynical policy, minding their own pockets, filling their own pockets and serving their own goals, their own oligarchs, which the Hungarian National Bank has agreed to - that is why we are attacking it. Therefore, we are not attacking the institution of the Hungarian National Bank, we are attacking this kind of leadership, which always brings a screen, where little red dots, and Matolcsy's total kinship, which is 7.5 billion people, in order to talk about it, although the problem is not. The problem is what you have to face, ladies and gentlemen, is that people who have not changed their foreign exchange credit at the rate at which they should have been paid at the time of admission should have said something. They said that we would be attacked by the European Union, that we would be sued and that we would lose this lawsuit - one. You have had so much debate with the European Union, for once in your life we would have even agreed with this debate. That would have been worth a door slam, but you didn't. You've run from this bravely. You know why? Because the Hungarian National Bank made 136 billion forints on it. Two, no one would have attacked us. Romania has also replaced foreign exchange loans by replacing foreign exchange loans to Romanians at the exchange rate at the time of admission. Did the EU attack them, Mr Vice President? [[István Márton Nagy says no.]] If not, I think we should also try to do so in Hungary. You know, this problem now affects 900,000 people who may lose their housing, but then György Matolcsy says at the Economic Committee meeting that they will certainly not support so-called victims. It's in the record. Ladies and gentlemen, You will need the voters, you will need the foreign exchange victims, you will have to face the victims of the broker scandal, but you will say so, because that is what the President of the Central Bank, whom you are proud of, said. And to the President of the Central Bank, through the Vice-President, since the President of the Central Bank has been so bravely running away from his own debate and his own report, I would also like to send a message to you from this point of view that this issue should also be socialised in the context of social engagement. Believe me, I know them well, I've been very busy dealing with the brokerage scandal victims, the victims of foreign exchange scandals instead of you. I know them well, I can get them together. I invite you, Mr Vice-President, and you, President Matolcsy, to come and stand up for this position. Not here, in Parliament, where they can't even stand the debate with us. You'd better come over there and tell them that's what you think. The thing is, do you know what you're thinking? You don't even care about all these people. You have no idea, you've seen money in this. They saw money where it could be disposed of on one side at Quaestor 220 billion HUF, in Buda-Cash... - Oh, well, they saw opportunities in that. Companies that Buda-Cash treated grew out of, oh, they bought newspapers! [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: Unfortunately, yes.]] You've seen money in these, you've seen a lot of money. Of course, it was for someone who could have taken his money: 333 people. There's a list like that, they could've taken the money. Why them? Who was that list for, Mr. Vice President? For you? Is that list for you? [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Where was the financial supervision?]] Did financial supervision know about that list? Because if he couldn't, that's the problem. If he knew, he'd be an accomplice. Who was this list for? These are the reasons why the Hungarian National Bank is outside Quaestor from December 2014 until January 2015. Only the good Lord may know the results of this company's audit, and in a month's time, the savings of 32,000 families will vanish. Then you made laws here, so you helped them - we hope that someday the Hungarians will be able to repay it - that they begged about it, that 21,000 people are still running for their money. But you have already taken the property away from them by law, because you said that if anyone has accepted even zero forints, you are no longer entitled to participate in the winding-up proceedings. Then there was the private pension savings and the question of them, which is also the year 2016. I asked the question of private pension savings in 2016, why this could happen by somehow getting to a Hungarian commercial bank during a strange competition, and, according to news reports, György Matolcsy lived in an apartment owned by the CEO of this commercial bank. [[10.00]] Is there a connection? Why did this happen? All of this proves that I'm asking you, if there's anything professional about this bank, it's definitely not from the President of the Central Bank, the President of the Central Bank. He's a window man, he comes here, he turns parliament into a flea circus, he announces these communication bluffs. It's nothing but a shotgun. He probably doesn't understand the profession enough then to defend his position, and he is probably working for him, Mr.Vice President, because Prime Minister Viktor Orbán also praised you for the successful replacement of foreign exchange loans. There are probably many very decent officials still working in the institution we call the National Bank of Hungary, and that does not mean that it has collapsed. But in fact, if there were bright successes, these questions could not be asked. These questions must, of course, be asked. A successful growth loan programme; yes, through our Growth Credit Bank, the owner of which is György Matolcsy's cousin; which, of course, cannot be discussed, because in terms of market economy, such luck could have been different. Well, you couldn't have been so lucky, there's so many banks. But then you guys got tired of this, and now you had to make your own bank, and then you quickly despised MKB with your vice president. Well, where'd you get the money? Is that from a family loan? Just from which family? So I think, Mr Vice-President, that these points, which I have listed, must be discussed, because these are the points that determine the public speech, which determine the authority of the central bank. The President of the Central Bank has a lot to add to the authority of the Central Bank and can take away a lot. All over Europe, if the President of the Central Bank spoke and said such things, he would talk about little red dots and how everyone is related to him, probably the exchange rate and interest rates would start to rise. We're so lucky that Matolcsy... the reason the exchange rates would rise is because they would realize that this man, Jesus Christ, is saying such things is very unprofessional. But we're so lucky that George Matolcsy has no one to listen to because no one takes him seriously. That's what happens practically. That's what happens practically in this story. This central bank has no authority today, either in Europe or in Hungary, because of these scandals. The things George Matolcsy can't answer directly, he can't say no, I didn't live in this apartment. We asked him five times, he didn't say it once. [[Dr. Csaba Hende: Here he said!]] No, he didn't! You have to read the records. He didn't say! [[Noise from the benches of MSZP. Interjection in the same place: No reply! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I put 26 instants on him, he didn't answer! Zoltán Grimlock: And neither does Willy live, and his address is there.]] He didn't say it once. So, if we take all this seriously, the professional parts that you are saying, I will continue to call on you to come, we will ensure the public, we will socialise the ideas you are saying that it is scandalous that I consider your salary of five million forints a month to be high. Come to Baranya, Szabolcs, Miskolc, tell the people there to calm them down. I would very much like to call on the Quaestor victims, tell them that they are so-called victims, who certainly cannot expect any help from you. Believe me, in the future, we will continue to pay attention to what the foundations' money is spent on, how the foundations' money is spent, whether the laws are respected, and every time we force you to comply with the laws, because you do not intend to do so at the moment. We'll keep an eye on that. I'm asking you to add this to the report. Mr President, my faction will probably still use the request that the House take a break in order to wait for President Matolcsy to return from Freedom Square. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew intervenes.]] And then he can answer those questions himself. [[Attila Mesterházy: That's right!]] Thank you for your attention.
u2017-10-18-14	Thank you very much. 18 minutes, Mr. Cook used two seconds from the 30-minute window. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2017-10-18-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, György Matolcsy is a coward. He ran away from the debate cowardly, even though if he had been political instead of giving a report, he could have waited for our answers to the questions raised. But he didn't. It's hard to argue that way. It's the peculiarity of real cowardly people to say something, and then before you can answer that, you run away quickly. That's what György Matolcsy did. That is why I think it is right to suggest that this is unfair, unworthy, and violates the authority of this House. I have been here to debate quite a lot of accounts, and the only one I can't remember is one where the report wouldn't have sat through the parliamentary debate. Not only is the President of the Curia, not only the President of the OBH, not only the Ombudsman, but also, among other things, the Polt Péter who receives at least such unpleasant questions and is at least subject to such an attack. I'm not really accusing myself of liking Peter Polt, that I appreciate his performance. But it should be written on his honor, in Parliament's debate he stands up, he is here and he answers. György Matolcsy runs away. Well, that's your president. Congratulations on that. I would, of course, refer back in a few words - because the record, thank God, preserves the events of posterity here - and I would like to answer some of Mr Matolcsy's points. One is what is normal and acceptable in a democracy of the rule of law, as I do not consider Hungary today, unfortunately. I think that the fact that a faction, in accordance with its duties as opposition, in its powers of control, reveals abuses, and thus confronts the person concerned, whose control the opposition and parliament are meant to control, is a natural thing. That's your job. Tell Mr. Matolcsy. No one in European democracies resents this. What's more, he might even answer it, he's here and he's answering it, and he's not doing it the way the central bank president does. Because I would like to say to Vice-President Hende that it is possible to look at it about five times, because I numbered the questions, I asked György Matolcsy in Parliament whether he lived in Patai's apartment, and if so, whether he paid rent. I asked Mr. President very much just to say no, and I will never ask again. He didn't say! Mr. Vice President, now that you've covered your tracks, you might say so. But, Mr Vice President, let me ask you, and answer me, at least you are here in this debate, tell me: when you ask me five or ten times, is it not just me, or anyone else, that it would not have been easier to say that it was not, please? Wouldn't that have been easier? And then this scandal won't burn on him. Probably the problem is that there was one, and by now, we've managed to cover our tracks. So, it would be the duty of a central bank president to give a meaningful answer as described in the House Rules, instead of answering stupid things and talking nonsense in response, now, this scandal, honourable Members! This scandal, because it is precisely what my colleague László Szakács said, that is to say, it is nothing more than to distract attention from the real issues, the real problems. 'Cause everyone's really talking about all this crap, that he's got seven and a half billion relatives and red dots and stuff. Ridiculous! The problem is, if it was a stand-up comedy, we'd have a good laugh about it. The only problem is that this is the Hungarian Parliament, and the problem is that it is the President of the Hungarian National Bank. Well, that's a bigger problem. [[Dr. Zsolt Legény: The Hungarian Reality!]] Speaking of scandal, may I ask what the scandal is in a rule of law: that an opposition group is criticizing the President of the Central Bank, his activities and his scandals, or that instead of talking about the MNB's accounts, he is partying as an independent head of an independent institution and bashing on an opposition party and a opposition faction here in Parliament? [[10.10]] So, fellow Members, what's the scandal? Which one of these scandals is it? The MNB's activity is indeed two-way, and my fellow Member, Cook, has also said so, if not with those words. The MNB has a professional activity, which according to the news, and as we see it, is controlled by Vice-President Márton Nagy; I'm guessing that's why György Matolcsy left him here, because he doesn't have much to do with it. And they're doing their job, of course, for professional co-workers, thank God, that's why there's still a central bank operation. And the MNB has a fidesz activity, so that's what I'm afraid is missing out on the report. Because if Mr Matolcsy had spoken about it here, at least he would have written it in his report. He would have done the right thing, because this is at least as serious a activity of the National Bank today - already the fidesz line - as the functions of the MNB as laid down by law. We also understand that you are entrusting this to your vice-president and your co-workers, as György Matolcsy obviously does not have time to do so, he is too busy managing the skiing of money. As diverse as this activity is, we do not wonder that it is so. In 2016, as long as the report concerns this year, obviously we should stay this year or this year, if you will, in an organically subsequent series of events, there was a scandal around the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank. It is no coincidence that Mr Matolcsy mentioned this, because he obviously expected and had reason to expect that this would be discussed here in Parliament today. After the failure of their attempt to classify 250 billion public funds as losing their public finances, they got into a lot of trouble and a series of scandals followed each other. I would like to say that we obviously know, of course, that Erik Bánki's proposal was made by our fellow Member, probably not out of his mind, obviously György Matolcsy ordered that the Parliament decide on this, as he ordered the five million-dollar salary for himself, and the Parliament, of course, gave it to a Member in accordance with the good traditions of central Fidesz management, to take the blame, and then submit it as an independent motion. But it seems that this was too much for János Áder, and he sent this law to the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court declared it unconstitutional. Seems that's why there's a point that's too much for people who are loyal to Fidesz. George Matolcsy has an idea that his own can't tolerate anymore. Well, that was one of them. From then on, it became obvious to everyone, because, in the context of a public interest data request, it was possible to request the funds and data of foundations, that this was all about creating a fairly high-capital Fidesz paying place, from which all kinds of people could be pushed out on all kinds of items, the money that would otherwise have to be returned to foreign exchange lenders. Instead of you spending it on it. Consider a few specific examples of these, since a statement can only stand up if it is supported by facts. The board of trustees of foundations - and I don't suppose anyone disputes that factually, maybe even you - and your leadership is full of fidesz buddies. It's full. And, of course, with relatives, now quite close, even though after the marriage, he has given up these positions; so I suppose, with the five million-dollar salary, only two of the others can make a living. It's full of MNB senior executives. If you are already here, I would like to ask you to allow me so much personal information that if the press's information is true - if not, you will deny it - that you needed 4.5 million more in addition to your 4.5 million salary to bring home a total of 9 million a month - because you have received so much from your foundational functions and, by the way, from other functions, but Mr. Vice-President denies it - and also, of course, the MNB's VIP credit, which no one else deserves but you, because 9 million forints is not enough to choose a normal loan. So I don't think it's ethical, I'll tell you honestly, even if it's legal. If you're here, if you're here, and you're already here, you can at least give me that accurate answer, because it specifically concerns you. But let us consider another example of what these problems were or what these objectionable measures were. Indeed, without the need for completeness, because my fellow Members will talk about a number of matters. I'm about to flash a few, just so it doesn't look like it's a simple political attack, as the President said. I don't think it's okay for the Hungarian National Bank to delegate the attorney's office of the Minister of Justice. I don't think that's okay. Do you remember, Mr. Vice President, what a scandal it was that the Chancellor's Attorney's office was given some kind of state commission? It was such a scandal that he had to resign. Now László Trócsányi is happy to receive the money. Then I don't think it's okay either, Mr Vice-President - if you could give Mr Matolcsy this or at least the minutes so that he can read the answer I'm giving you - that the wife of the Attorney General is working at the National Bank for a salary of five million. And that's not enough, even your daughter. As a beginner's lawyer for 500,000 forints. Why? Why don't you go to the private sector? I understand, as my fellow chef said... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell. Interjection: Time's up!]] It's a problem, and it's a safety thing for you. I will continue my speech in a next round. Unfortunately, scandals are hard to come to an end in that time. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-10-18-16	Thank you, Congressman Bárándy. I give the floor to Mr István Hollik, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP. Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: Jesus Christ! Z. Carpathian Daniel: It's not easy!]]
u2017-10-18-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I also thank the opposition parties for their respectful attention. My colleague, Mr Gergely Bárándy, said that this is difficult to argue. If nothing else, I can agree with that sentence. It is therefore difficult to argue with you that we have a report on the operation of the Hungarian National Bank in 2016, and you will not say a word about it. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: What did Matolcsy say? Nothing!]] The articles of opposition news portals will be read in colour, in such a pseudo-scan, but they won't say a word about the operation of the central bank. [[Did you see that 42 million-dollar table, Congressman?]] They say that the central bank [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Where is Matolcsy?]] has no authority because of its operation in 2016 or because of the operation of the President. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: No!]] [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Where is Matolcsy?]] has no authority because of its operation in 2016 or because of the operation of the President. (Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: No!) The thing is, I'm gonna have to discourage you, because interestingly, the market sees it differently. I understand you're trying to slap this through party policy glasses, but the fact is, reality shows otherwise. (Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Where is Matolcsy?) Otherwise, it would be nice for you to face or sense reality sometimes. It is worth talking about, however, when you so loudly attack the central bank, what performance the central bank has been able to deliver during socialist governance. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: You told us to talk about the 2016 report!]] Dear Dániel Z. Kárpát, we must talk about this in order to have a basis for comparison, because after that, if you will allow... [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Then don't tell us to talk about 2016. Interviews from the lines of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'd like to talk about it in my own logic. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Sixteen Report!]] And anyway, to see the results of what the ticket... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]]
u2017-10-18-18	Please, dear Congressman Hollik, let's stop for a moment. With great respect, I ask the ladies and gentlemen of the opposition not to have to give a special warning. [[Anita Heringes: Mr President, you are not talking about that! You're not talking about the subject.]] because it can have a serious impact on today's agenda... [[Dr. Zsolt Legány: What is it?]] 'Cause I just can't stand these yelling. I find it unnecessary and, on the other hand, it disturbs the speaker. And me too... [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Is Matolcsy coming back? The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Zsolt Crew: Mr. President! We don't find these yelling unnecessary.]] It bothers me to pay attention. So thank you very much for your patience and attention. [[Attila Mesterházy intervenes.]] Go on, Congressman Hollik. [[10.20]]
u2017-10-18-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó:]] So, once again, I would like to signal Mr Z. Kárpa to Mr Dániel that I think that in order to understand [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That will be difficult!]] the outcome of the current management of the central bank is worth comparing. I understand that the socialists don't like it, but I think it's important. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: 2016!]] So I would like to say to you once again that I would be careful with the criticism if I were you. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: 2016, Member!]] [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: 2016, Member!]] If we look at your central bank (Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: 2016, Congressman!) András Simor, delegated by you [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: 2016, Member! 2016!]] the performance it has performed at the head of the central bank. And if we start from the Central Bank Act, we can say that the central bank basically has three tasks: ensuring financial stability, ensuring price stability [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Yours is stealing!]] support for government economic policy. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: The friends and the others!]] Let's see how the central bank of the socialists has performed through these glasses. Let's take a look. In 2009 [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: 2016! ..16!]] There was 4 percent inflation... I understand that you don't like it, but please hear me out. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: 2016!]] Even if reality hurts you! In 2009, inflation was 4 per cent, above 3 per cent. In 2010, it was 4.7 percent. And even in 2011, he overcame 3 percent. So András Simor, who was delegated by the socialists, has not once managed to reduce inflation to less than 3 percent. Then, interestingly, we see that on 4 March 2013 the central bank had a new management, and see a miracle: inflation was 1.7 that year, and from then on it was always below 3 per cent, and not only was it below 3 per cent, but inflation actually disappeared after 2013. But, by the way, let's look at the results of the central bank. Tickets during the time of András Simor - and I would say only the last three years -: in 2010 minus HUF 41.6 billion, in 2011 minus HUF 100 billion, in 2012 minus HUF 93 billion. If I add this up, it's a loss of almost HUF 230 billion in three years. I would like to ask my fellow chef, who, by the way, left the meeting room the same way György Matolcsy left the meeting room. [[Zoltán Grimlock: He's coming back! Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Nana!]] The only difference is that György Matolcsy is represented by Vice-President Márton Nagy [[Attila Mesterházy: He comes back and Matolcsy doesn't!]] László Cook, no one. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: We are not talking about the accounts of László Szakács!]] He's criticizing what he's doing after that, by the way. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Are you talking about the accounts of László Kács?]] So, I would like to ask Congressman László Szakács, who was upset about what could be spent on the salaries of central bank managers, I would like to ask what could have been spent on the 250 billion HUF loss that the central bank would otherwise have incurred. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You are so weak!]] The Simor central bank is booked. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: 2016!]] By the way, we had to make up for it from the taxpayers' forints. Then interestingly, László Szakács did not go down to Baranya, and he did not tell people what that 250 billion forint could have been spent on. [[Attila Mesterházy: In the midst of the global crisis.]] Then, by the way, the demagogy you've just presented here has been missing in an interesting way. And I missed it, of course, when the Socialists left the salary for András Simor, so you left it at HUF 8 million. Then where was this demagogy? [[Attila Mesterházy's intervention. Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: You introduced 2 million HUF!]] Then did they ask that question? [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You weren't here before!]] Then did they go to the people and tell them that 8 million forints is really a lot, and then we will reduce it? Did you say that, Ladies and Gentlemen of the Socialist Congress? Did they say that? I haven't heard it once. And which, I think, is the most important thing, and I will return to the statutory task of the central bank. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Now, at last!]] support for government economic policy. Let's look at the basic interest rate issue. The Simor central bank left the base rate at 6 per cent in 2010 [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: 2016! ..16!]] In 2011, the base rate was 7 per cent, in 2012, 6.5 per cent, in March 2013, when the new management started its activities, the base rate was 5.25 per cent. This is because the Simor central bank said that, by the way, Hungary's financial stability can only be maintained and, by the way, its price stability, and inflation will not run away if we keep the base rate so high. In March 2013, therefore, it was 5.25%. In December 2013, the central bank led by President György Matolcsy reduced it to 3 percent in three quarters of a year. So it narrowed down the central bank's core interest rate by 2.25 percent over a year. And I would like to inform my fellow socialists that inflation has not gone away. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Is Matolcsy coming back? Because Cook is here! Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Congressman Cook is back!]] Price stability remains. This also shows that what the Simor central bank did was a conscious inhibition of Hungarian economic policy through the base rate, which prevented it through the high base rate. [[Dr. Zsolt Legány: Now there's conscious theft!]] so that money can flow to the Hungarian economy. I think it's more than a professional mistake. And you didn't talk about it. So this is what's in one of the pans of the balance sheet, and I'd like to get to the results of the new central bank, by the way. As I have already said, three conditions are laid down in the Central Bank Act for the Hungarian National Bank, one being price stability and the other being financial stability, and the third being the support of government economic policy. We see that price stability is ensured by the central bank, the 2016 report shows that inflation was well below 3 per cent not only in 2016 but also before, but also in 2016 it was 0.4 per cent, but in the last year it was even less. Financial stability has also been ensured and supported by the central bank; the MNB has also supported financial stability and government economic policy through traditional and non-traditional monetary policy instruments. As the President of the Central Bank has said, a turn of credit has been realised, as in the case of the population, and also for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, this has been reversed and increased. The fact that the core interest rate was kept very low and maintained by the central bank also helped the companies to access the money; it reduced it to 0.9 percent in 2016. I would like to emphasise once again that inflation has not gone away from this, it has remained well below 3 per cent, and the central bank base rate has historically fallen to the lowest level. And with unconventional means, the central bank encouraged the money not to be parked at the central bank, banks and financial institutions and businesses to park their money at the central bank. One of the instruments for this was the quantitative restriction on three-month deposits. This was also due to the fact that less money was parked at the central bank, and because of this, the demand for Hungarian sovereign debt increased and the interest rates were significantly reduced by around 670 basis points. Here, too, because I did not mention this earlier, let us recall that thanks to this, by the way, the financing of Hungary's public debt decreased significantly compared to the previous socialist period. I would just like to draw once again the attention of my opposition colleagues to the fact that in 2010 we spent more than 4 percent of GDP on financing public debt, more than 1300 billion forints. In 2016, we spent less than 3 percent of GDP on government debt, less than 900 billion forints. [[10.30]] So only with this measure, that the interest environment of sovereign debt has improved significantly, the central bank has been able to make significant savings, and this money has been transferred to Hungarian investors on the one hand, and the remaining money has enriched the budget. The long return on sovereign debt also decreased by 480 basis points on average. And thanks to everything, as I said, compared to 2013, since György Matolcsy has led the central bank, the interest payment on the government debt has been reduced by HUF 500 billion. The country's external vulnerability has also decreased significantly as a result of all central bank programmes. The foreign exchange ratio of the government debt decreased to almost 25 per cent. I would like to draw attention here once again to the fact that during the socialist period, this was higher than 50 percent, which made the Hungarian economy extremely vulnerable, in addition to the fact that the level of public debt has obviously been significantly increased by the socialist government, which in itself has made the country vulnerable. On the other hand, the fact that this government debt, more than half of which was denominated in foreign currency, added a shovel. Like I said, this is where we get to the third goal of supporting government economic policy. So, as we have seen, while András Simor specifically opposed government economic policy to keeping the base rate high, the current management of the central bank - and so it was in 2016 - supports government economic policy with the growth credit programme. This is due to the fact that the credit turnaround was extended, in addition to corporate investment, to retail consumption, and the stock of new housing and consumption contracts increased by 50 percent. We have also seen, indeed, that the powers of supervision have also been transferred to the central bank. As you can read in the report, more than one hundred and twenty investigations were launched by the central bank only in 2016, and in 2016 - in fact we are nearing the end of 2017 - we did not see any serious irregularities in the financial sector. So the custody, I think, is doing well. It is also worth mentioning that more than 300 consumer protection investigations were launched by the MNB as supervision, and only in 2015 it imposed a consumer protection fine of almost 260 million forints. Finally, let me talk about the result, as I have said that András Simor, who was delegated by the Socialists, accumulated losses to losses, in fact, the central bank that he managed has been loss-making almost all along, and has accumulated little losses, until then the central bank has been operating profitable every year since György Matolcsy's chairmanship. This was the case in 2016, with a profit of HUF 50 billion, with a profit of almost 100 billion, of which HUF 50 billion was paid into the budget as a dividend, and HUF 50 billion was held in the profit reserve. I would also like to note here that I find the sentence of my fellow Member, László Szakács, which says that the Hungarian people should be afraid that the central bank is managing responsibly and puts HUF 50 billion in the reserve. You don't have to be afraid of that. This should also be praised for the foresight of the management of the central bank and for counting on the years when they may not be able to make a profit [[Dr. György Bárándy: There's still something to steal.]] , and then the loss of the central bank will not have to be offset from the budget or tax forints, but there will be a significant amount available in the profit and loss reserve, from which, by the way, these losses can be compensated when such a situation occurs. So I think that the fact that the central bank only put HUF 50 billion in the profit reserve in 2016 does not mean that Hungarian people should be afraid at all, and this shows that the central bank has managed well. Finally, I think we can say that in 2016 the Hungarian National Bank fulfilled the obligations imposed by the Central Bank Act; the Hungarian National Bank worked well, and therefore thanks to the President and the head of the Central Bank. Of course, the Fidesz-KDNP fraction association will accept this report. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-10-18-20	Thank you very much, Congressman István Hollik. I now give the floor to the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát.
u2017-10-18-21	Mr President, Dear House, We've had a difficult time, and it's not a coincidence that there's been a presidential warning. Indeed, it was difficult for the representatives of the opposition groups to remain calm when, on the one hand, Mr Matolcsy, as a conceited, hysterical child, without any professional concept, actually experienced his political gushes and, on the other hand, left the room before he could hear anyone's arguments and arguments. Indeed, this whole Fidesz, KDNP, MNB team is actually arrogant, conceited, big vest, which will in the future be paid back, which will fail, not only by the government, but also by the organizations that have appointed either a Fidesz party soldier or a Fidesz sympathizer with whom you operate in symbiosis. So it is amazing to hear from István Hollik that the MNB's priority task is to underpin government economic policy. Please, I wouldn't be far from an MNB that really seeks to promote the goals of the current government. However, the MNB is precisely referring to its independence to the net insanity that would have amazing consequences in every fair national economy, and also to legal consequences that would only be the hallway of an interrogation. But we are in Hungary, so the fact is that, in fact, the central bank has been able to carry out this raid without consequences in recent years. We see that when we talk about 266 billion plus, and some Members talk about the results of the National Bank, which is independent of them, but which supports and assists their goals, well, we have to note that it is true that in times of loss - I also object to András Simor's salary, we agree - that during that period the foreign exchange lenders were not fooled. Thus, a large part of the surplus now derives from the accumulation of an unjustified profit margin at the MNB in the course of the conversion of credit victims. [[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP: That's right! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: That's right, Congressman Hollik! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It's the truth!]] The MNB took off with an unwarranted profit margin. The thing is, you're lying, and you're putting it on a billboard to get the banks accounted for. [[To István Hollik:]] Don't turn your head, my fellow Member, and press a button and respond to it. You posted on the poster that the banks were accounted for while betraying their own voters. Your own voters, who trusted you, took credit at HUF 155-160. And what did they do? They were converted at 256 forints. They robbed their own people, their own voters, legalized this shit. So don't turn your head on me. Or press a button and get yourself a sensible reaction if you can. The fact is, however, that Parliament would have a double task. On the one hand, it would be responsible for the monthly political control that the Economic Committee should carry out for the central bank. Here, however, the question arises as to why the ownership control, so the other leg, is missing. Obviously, I am not turning to Mr Vice-President in this regard, but I would also consider it appropriate to discuss the MNB's supervisory committee report. On the one hand, before the Economic Committee and, on the other hand, in front of this House, we could talk about why the report of the body responsible for control, a supervisory board, is missing out on this debate. I could bring a lot of this right now, it would not necessarily be elegant, because that is not what the item on the agenda is about, although the framework of the general debate is spacious, but it is certain that the comments of the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank in terms of ownership control would be at least worthy of negotiation. We also see that, since the Economic Committee is the only one who has a direct way of carrying out control here in the way of monetary policy, at least we see shortcomings. [[10.40]] We can control fiscal policy relatively, and this has a system of instruments, so the fiscal subsystem - taxation, the budget - is transparent, since there is an annual accounts, an audit by the Court of Auditors, and sometimes a public debate in Parliament on all of this. At the same time, the monetary subsystem is surrounded by a kind of mystique, some of its moments are completely unknown not only to the public but also to the Members of Parliament. One of the options for this would be, say, a subcommittee within an Economic Commission, which focuses specifically on these monetary issues, and could be given access to these representatives who are involved in this, which now does not belong to an ordinary, mezzanine Member of Parliament. However, we also need to see that this report, which lies before us, although it talks about a lot of things, is not at all on a number of important issues. Here is one that came up yesterday during a series of discussions on the subject, and it follows from the question that macroeconomic indicators can be considered relatively positive, at least at the moment we meet the Maastricht criteria, with the exception of perhaps one, which raises an earlier commitment, the question of the introduction of the euro, which I would like to stress, that I personally do not necessarily agree. At the same time, Fidesz and the MSZP, when they jointly sold this country in a very cheap way, so they signed an accession agreement with the introduction of the euro, I think, in an irresponsible way, and then voted together on the Lisbon Treaty with the possibility that they might not even have been able to get acquainted with the official translation, then these commitments they made were written down with a kind of clearing obligation. So now the head of the MNB, who is not in the room, should and should be talking about his opinion on the introduction of the euro. In my opinion, at the moment, this would do more harm than good. But in order not to have a professional debate about this, so that there is no debate about it, because at the moment I don't see a Fidesz, KDNP representative in the room, at most up in the pulpit - and they are doing their job there, they have all the respect, but they can't press a button - so there is no debate partner in the room; this is a very difficult situation. So with regard to the introduction of the euro, I see that the country would lose a lot if this happened, since some open market intervention options would be lost, such opportunities for verbal or nonverbal intervention would be lost by this country, but this is a question that the market regularly asks. Answers should be found, and an MNB report is also a place where certain types of responses could be given in this area. In the same way, I would like to ask Mr Vice-President, if you have been put in this awkward situation by your boss, that you have fled cowardly - by the way, we should say you will be able to cope with this professional task, since you are supposed to be in charge of professional work, and your boss is more likely to engage in political engagement - but in 2016, the central bank's gold and foreign reserves amount to EUR 5.8 billion, so some 1880 thousand billion. It decreased by HUF, and we have to say that within this, the MNB has actually cut the state's gold stock to zero, if we can believe page 102 of the report. If that is true, then this also calls for an explanation: why, in what way, under what conditions did this reduction of HUF 1880 billion and the virtual elimination of the gold stock occur? Therefore, it is obvious that a technical and other explanation could be expected here, not only the very narrow actual report on page 102 of the report. And we must say, I have already mentioned that the report of the MNB's Supervisory Board is incomprehensiblely not put on the agenda by the Economic Committee. But what is still a question for the MNB is that 60 percent of their operating costs are personnel-related expenses on the basis of a detail of the report. If this 60 percent personal expenditure is true, then I have one question: how many executive directors do they have who have a salary of 5 million or more per month? After all, the MNB does not operate as a profit-oriented public limited liability company, it simply does not have a board of directors that would define this wage level and its conditions according to normal standards, but the increases are not implemented and defined by a state regulation at the moment, but by a kind of collective agreement. That is why the question arises as to what you have decided, so how many leaders do you have who carry home 5 million forints or more a month? I feel that this should be public information. We also see that without a general assembly, the MNB actually decides on dividend payments by its board of directors, which seems to be unprecedented in international terms, at least, a kind of Hungaricum. We have not found much of the same method either in European countries or further away, but we have to see that it is typical in other countries that, in the course of dividend payments, the profits and surplus are actually paid to the budget, based on the logic that if there is a shortage, the budget must also be good. At the same time, we can see that during the period under consideration, the result of the foreign exchange rate change, the realised profit totalled more than HUF 1000 billion, we are talking about HUF 117 billion in 2016, and we see that some of the surplus has been paid in a proven way by the foreign exchange lenders. Is it possible for Mr Vice-President, against his boss, to use this amount at least in part to help the situation of the credit-damaged? One way to do this could have been to pay dividends, but there could have been a compensation fund, which, channeled into a compensation fund, canalized some of the money, could have been helped by the most difficult people, I might add, from their own forints, as it would be to channel their own money back. It is also obvious that the MNB's foundations can play a role in all of this, since the EUR 260 billion they have in a fair procedure could also help to alleviate the burden on those who have suffered foreign exchange credit. At the same time, I understand what kind of concept these foundations were set up in, so it would have been a fully operational model to contribute to the stabilisation of the national economy through open market operations and other economic intervention instruments. Only the fact is that these foundations do not play this role at all, they do not have this function at all, they work on alternative tools and alternative planes, they are busy buying real estate, art and portfolio expansion. By the way, the question is that the MNB, which reportedly sold the Eiffel Palace, purchased three years ago to place its apparatus in why it sold this property. Are you interested in investing? Or have they made a wrong statement before? Did they say something that wasn't true? Are you wrong? Have they reviewed their own position or simply put their heads on real estate investments rather than exploding the core activity? So there are a number of questions ahead of us, but it is quite certain that issues relating to the gold reserve relating to dividends have been formulated in very specific terms, and we expect to receive very specific answers to these questions, even if the responsible head of the MNB has fled this room, so he does not respect not only the Hungarian Parliament, but also the voters behind the Members of Parliament, so that he can answer some of these often unpleasant questions. But the answers to these specific questions are there, the Hungarian National Bank has them, they are given, they are available, it is therefore essential that we get to know them, and I would very much like it to be possible to hold professional debates in the House. At the same time, under political control, I think it is important to include ownership control, so that the report of the MNB's Supervisory Board is discussed in the same way by the Economic Committee, so that we can look at what we are talking about in a much wider spectrum. And obviously there is a very tense issue on the subject of this report, with which there is no way, in any way, to be identified, and this is total looting of foreign exchange credit victims, which contributes to the drying of the economy, contributing to a socio-social disaster. So it doesn't matter what results the MNB can produce on paper, by contributing to the looting of a measurable group of Hungary's population and participating in this humiliating, amazing process, it actually eliminates all its results. Although it would still be an opportunity to turn back from this depraved road, because it does not point to a fairy tale at all, it is more of a disaster movie. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-18-22	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I give the floor to Mr Ákos Hadházy, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2017-10-18-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As I've heard, in the debates we've had so far, there's a legitimate suggestion that President Matolcsy has fled the room. I find that a little less dangerous. I'm late for traffic myself, but I don't mind very much, because from what I've seen so far, these debates, or the answers that he gives me, are definitely unworthy, very often frivolous, very often speaking clearly silly or outrageous things, that I honestly don't mind that he's not here. [[10.50]] Hearing the answers, there was a moment in which I would like you to help me, because he said something about so-called foreign exchange damage or alleged foreign exchange damage. You said that in front of the committee, you said that they were alleged foreign exchange damage, which I think is more outrageous than any statement you've made. And I'm glad that after the committee, we can draw attention to this here. I think a lot about how this man dares to do the things he has done so far and how he dares to say the things he says. I believe that it is likely that, since there is no financial education in Hungarian schools - this is also an amazing thing - there is no real financial education in basic schools, it hopes that the majority of people cannot imagine that the weakening of the forint can make a lot of money, because ordinary people see that the weakening of the forint is bad, millions of foreign exchange credentials know specifically that the weakening of the forint is wrong, and they do not feel it, nor do they even think that money can be made by weakening the forint, and that money can be made by horritable money; the money that is now boasting that it is a profit at the bank. It was also surprising for me to read on this agenda the number reported by the Supervisory Board that the Hungarian National Bank won HUF 889 billion on the weakening of the forint. He won 889 billion forints, because what he has is worth more because of the weakening of the forint. That's the gain. And this bank, this Magyar Nemzeti Bank, as long as Matolcsy is there, will not achieve a stronger forint in stinking life because it knows that there will be a loss, because then its currency stock will be worth less, and then it will have a loss, so to speak. My message to me is that Mr. Vice-President should then give Mr. Matolcsy the message that millions of people do know, despite his hope that they do not know, but they know that the Hungarian National Bank has won horriable money to weaken the forint. They know very well, and they're terribly upset about it. I have told you before, but I repeat here that President Matolcsy must pray and beg Fidesz to allow a little democracy, let a little press in addition, so as not to end their power by chance with a revolution, because it is very, very realistic that if you end your power in a non-democratic way, with elections, then Mr Matolcsy will be very, very bad, because people do know that those foam jeans and those huge sums of money were obtained by the Hungarian National Bank in the sweat of foreign exchange creditors, the so-called alleged foreign exchange victims, who, in this way, spoke in a most outrageous manner to the Commission's hearing. For me, it is a question why the pro-government representatives thought it was a good idea to stress that Matolcsy was doing everything with them and agreed with them. Because here it has been said several times how good the affair is and how harmonious it is and how they do everything together. If I were you, I'd keep my distance from this man, because it could be dangerous for you, too. What I would also like to say in general is that when you are talking about huge successes, let me refer to another former bank president who used to belong to your political family, Ákos Bod Péter, who is very rightly used to say that when a country is surrounded by an international situation, an environment that hurts the country's economy, which results in things going worse, it is always very good to point out that we are in trouble because the international situation is so bad. However, when the international situation improves, markets are calm and things are going well in the world, they always forget to say it, and lying politicians always view it as their own great achievement. It is also obvious that what you say here is a very good economic situation and economic policy, in fact, is due to nothing but some luck and, on the one hand, to a scoundrel who achieves a relative fiscal balance by taking money away from the future, since money is being taken from hospitals, health care, schools and education. This is how you have been able to provide relative stability. They take money from pension funds, they take money from EU funds, and that's how they can achieve the relative calm they can achieve in a very calm international market situation. In any case, what we see and it is very important to talk about is that the Hungarian National Bank continues to urinate and unscrupulous public spending. During the summer, they announced that they were opening an office in New York, which is rented for 2.5 million forints a month. Again, this serves to reward people who are loyal to the central bank president with well-paying positions. But it was even scarier when Matolcsy gave an interview in HVG, and he says that we need this office to get a good look at the US central bank - I'm sorry, I'm going to continue, and I'm going to tell you all about it here in Parliament, but we have to draw attention to it - well, he says that we're going to get a good look at what the US central bank is going to do with the American base rate, so we can get to know it sooner than the newspapers, and that's how we can control our economic policy. This, please, is insider trading. It's against the law in America! [[To István Hollik:]] You're laughing, that's true. That's true. It's quite simply amazing to say that we're going there to get a good look at it, and we're going to figure out what decisions they're gonna make, and then we're gonna have some kind of exchange rate gains. It is also amazing that central bank employees travel to Jamaica and Hawaii on the basis of various financial conferences, and obviously not on a low-cost flight because they do not go there and obviously do not have half board. These are simply unfaithful treatments. It is worth talking about, and it is deeply outrageous because, at the beginning of the summer, the report of the Supervisory Board of the Central Bank was submitted, in which it is described that the National Bank realised a profit of HUF 889 billion in three years from the revaluation of the currency stock resulting from the decrease in the forint exchange rate. This is 889 thousand times 1 million forints. 889 thousand times 1 million forints, so much profit! The report also states that the proportion of real estate within the assets of the National Bank is small, so the National Bank has a huge amount of profits, most of which we do not know where it is currently parked. Part of it was transferred to the foundation's start-up assets, and last year HUF 50 billion was paid into the central budget, and the rest goes to a profit reserve. The LMP has repeatedly called - now we are going to do it again - the central bank to pay its full profits to the central budget, because it is the best way to help, especially with the case of foreign exchange creditors - I will say it once again, Matolcsy said that he thinks there are no foreign exchange damages - the case of alleged or so-called foreign exchange victims has still not been resolved. As long as the central bank has this kind of wealth and its employees travel abroad, and receive preferential super VIP loans and huge salaries, and open offices in foreign high expectations to get well-paying positions for people loyal to Matolcsy, there are certainly evictions, desperate and hopeless people fleeing abroad or worse to suicide. It's no use being laughed at by opposition representatives. It is important to stress that if the central bank were to pay its total profits to the central budget, it would be necessary to establish a separate fund to which this amount could be transferred, which could only be used to help foreign exchange creditors. If this does not happen, then it is obvious that the amount paid can flow in the same way, become uncertain about its use and may land in the wrong place. I mean, I don't think the money's better than the government, more secure than Matolcsy's. [[11.00]] From the profits realised by the central bank, it would be possible primarily to save foreign exchange credentials in a hopeless situation, but obviously a fraction of this money can also be spent on other useful things, but I think it is only fair that most of this money is used to help foreign exchange credentials. Once again, I didn't know this amazing number, it boasts 889 billion forints of profit. So far, we've been talking about foundations' assets, which, of course, has to be returned immediately to foreign exchange creditors, but this profit is much more. Indeed, this money is already a fund, since it is clearly possible to help hundreds of thousands of families who are in a hopeless situation because of foreign exchange loans. It is important to know that the central bank's aim is to keep the forint weak, as this is the only way it can generate profits every semester. However, the fact that the burden of a weak HUF exchange rate is borne by foreign exchange lenders must also be recognised by the National Bank. It is not in the government's interest to strengthen the forint, therefore it cannot be said that it is in the interests of foreign exchange lenders. Since the forints were made, 72,000 families have still not been able to pay for their loans, and hundreds of thousands of people have lived in uncertainty, and hundreds of thousands of people have had to escape and work abroad to repay the loans. Obviously, the end-payment has helped only very few, those who least needed it. We've said that a lot. Let me also say that weakening the forint in itself is, of course, not something from the devil, but it could have been done only by endangering the lives of those people who are severely affected, but should have been saved and taken into account. In other countries, they were able to do this, and you say such things unkindly and heartlessly, so-called foreign exchange damage. It's pretty amazing. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Evictions continue to take place, including surreal cases where the external collection company and Raiffeisen Bank want to enforce their claim on the debtor at the same time, which is why the debtor is shamed by his two children. The debtors are in such a nervous and emotional state that they would rather quietly pack up and move out. You know very cynically that you are no longer in a position to represent your interests, but once again, if your system does not end in an election, then you will be in a very, very uncomfortable situation because of these people. When you say how successful the central bank is, how much profit it achieves, you're actually laughing at the expense of these people. According to the LMP, as we have said several times before, the central bank must abolish its foundations, the amount released must be paid into the state register, together with 80% of the annual profits, as is the case in Germany. The Germans seem to know some things well. It is not a shame to learn from them, because it is the money of Hungarian taxpayers, and the money can be used to help foreign exchange lenders. On this basis, my fellow Member asked you, Mr Vice-President, a question not so long ago as to see whether the profits realised at the forint exchange rate were not due to the narrow elite of the Hungarian National Bank, but to the Hungarian society as a whole. Márton Nagy, who was talking to the Vice-President of Parliament, had a cynical response to good monetary policy, to the exchange of foreign exchange credit. Say you forgot to say that it was not 180 HUF, but 260 HUF, the Swiss franc that was bought for 160 HUF was sold to the banks for 260 HUF. He boasted about the transfer of HUF 1000 billion to the general public. That's how it was said recently. Then why can't the debtors pay their loans now? Why can it be that after someone has repaid the debt with interest, he still has so much debt again? Or if someone's house is foreclosed, will there be at least as much damage after that? And as much as you're having fun here with Mr. Vice President, that's true. That's right. You also mentioned that the central bank is a reserve for unexpected events. I want you to tell me what unexpected events you're thinking. The profit reserve serves the purpose of continuing to serve the propaganda of the Hungarian National Bank, where it is constantly being repeated that the central bank is profitable, and after that it will not show a good picture if they turn to losses? At present, the report shows that both income from changes in interest and foreign exchange rates and profits are gradually decreasing year after year, and this is by no means a good sign for you. Once again, it's not a tragedy if the forints are added someday. And when the forint grows stronger someday, it is also possible that the Hungarian National Bank will generate losses, and this is a natural process. Martin the Great had another important statement. He also said that if the Hungarian National Bank produces losses, the budget must stand, and if it generates profits, then the central bank will decide how to manage it. Amazing statements! If the loss is borne by the central budget, is it not entirely natural for the profits to go back to the central budget? We continue to demand this. And at the very end, there was a moment here that was emphasized that new forints were introduced. I'm sure you could make a lot of money on this one, too. But that is quite certain, and let me say, I have met a lot of people who are terribly irritated by the appearance of these funds. Because it's very easy to confuse them. Obviously, there'll be a lot of old people who will be screwed through this. These are 10-20,000 forints, of course, compared to your salary of 5 million forints, but there are many people in Hungary who, if cut by 10-20 thousand forints because they are old, have poor vision, confuse the money, these are really important losses. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-18-24	Welcome, fellow Members. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I now allow a two-minute speaking opportunity, and I would ask Mr Nándor Gúr, a notary, to tell me in two minutes.
u2017-10-18-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is shocking what Matolcsy is doing, both in everyday life and here, within the walls of Parliament. He runs away, practically storms off, leaves his deputy behind. I think even if you were unable to answer the questions raised, honesty would wish you to sit here. It's unprecedented, unacceptable, shameful, what Matolcsy is doing, not really parliament, no, no, by ignoring voters! 'Cause that's it, that's the voter's contempt. Even if you can't answer the questions, you should sit here. My fellow Member Hollik says that the market sees Matolcsy's role differently. Well, I'm saying he sees it very differently, because whatever stupid thing he's doing, or he doesn't do anything, it's either - or it's already - the exchange rate doesn't respond to him. I have to say, it doesn't matter if you're talking about red dots, it doesn't matter. Whether he's talking about conquering attacks or anything else, he's starting to get uninterested. [[Gábor Bányai: That's not true.]] But one thing is interesting: the 260-265 billion forints that virtually lost their common currency character. This one subject is worth an autopsy. Because it could have helped, as has been said many times, foreign exchange credoes, not buddies, no, foreign exchange credoes. No, you have done them harm. You know, the conversion took over with 265 HUF instead of 160. As you can see, only man doesn't matter. It's just that man doesn't matter! What matters is friends, relatives, pereputty and the money you can get. Now, that's what's shameful. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[11.10]]
u2017-10-18-26	To the next two-minute comment, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát.
u2017-10-18-27	Mr President, Dear House, At least the group dynamics of the debate on the MNB report are frightening, as we see opposition representatives trying to get answers, the representatives of the governing parties are constantly fading in terms of their number, and Vice-President MNB has been talking to many people here, with sufficient serenity, as I have seen. At the same time, I would prevent him from trying to give some kind of answer only at the end of the debate, because it may be possible to sell it in Parliament once or twice a year, to wait for the end of the debate, when there is no longer a chance to respond, and we say something very hard with a political edge, but the thing is that voters will not forget this. Once again, there was a flood of specific questions. Mine is one of the most specific: on page 102 of the report, the state's gold supply has been cut to zero. The reason for this, its background, should be revealed immediately. So I call on you to speak now, to respond now, not at the end of the debate, when we no longer have the opportunity to react. Because I would like to point out once again that we can do this, but not with the voters behind us. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-18-28	I now give the floor to Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács in two minutes.
u2017-10-18-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have read the agenda once again, which clearly states that the Hungarian National Bank's business report and report for the year 2016. It is not written here that György Matolcsy's report, it is not written here that the Vice-President's report, but that of the institution which is represented by someone who is entitled to it. Therefore, I suggest that the kind of debate that the bank president is here or the bank president is not here can be cut short; it is a matter of taste. However, I would like to point out one thing very briefly. It is not mentioned, and I think that this is perhaps the most important question of what contribution the National Bank has made to the reduction of public debt in Hungary in recent years. The contribution of the National Bank to the fact that, over the past period - and I consider this to be extremely important - there has been a restructuring that has led to the conversion of our public debt into domestic debt. I think this is also extremely important for the following and for the coming years or years. These are results that cannot be disputed. I have also been an opposition representative for eight years, so I know that obviously not the results will be and should be listed from the opposition side, but there must be some reality, and it can be made clear that the activities of the National Bank over the past period, regardless of how the President of the National Bank is personally represented, have explicitly helped the government's policy, as a result of which we can say today that we have reduced public debt, reduced unemployment and substantially increased GDP potential. This cannot be left out of the performance of the National Bank. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-18-30	Thank you. Now we're going back to normal time-frame comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2017-10-18-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to say that I would like to continue the list that I could not finish in my speech as a speaker in the absence of time, but given that my fellow Member, Mr Turi-Kovács, has raised two things, and I would therefore like to say two or three sentences in this regard. One is that I do not wish to put Mr President in the awkward position of proposing once again that we postpone this meeting or take a break, and we ask the President of the Central Bank to attend the meeting in person, because Mr President would probably not be able to influence him to come back. On the other hand, your vice president might be able to impress him. I therefore ask you, Mr Vice-President, that, while this is going on, you should call the President and ask him to come back, because there would be a great need for him, as they say. So I'm asking you, and then we wouldn't bother Mr President with rendezvous motions to do it, to call Mr President and tell him that. Because my fellow Member, Mr Turi-Kovács, was not here at the beginning of the debate, and I am glad that he is here, because now there are two Fidesz Members in the Chamber during the debate. [[Dr. Béla Turi-Kovács: I was here before 9:00.]] So, you didn't hear us mention that there's no precedent for not having the report. Everyone was here, György Matolcsy was the only one who ran away cowardly. The only one, my fellow Member, is the only one. Peter Polt, whom we really don't handle with gloves, and it stays that way, was here and answered. And here was everyone else, from the Ombudsman to the President of the Curia to the President of the OBH, who had a report and sat through the debate. He sat down here in person, except for György Matolcsy. It's a small problem, don't you think, Congressman? On the other hand, he raised the role of the central bank in the financing of public debt. Well, I'd like to tell you that yes, that was a big problem, because it's against the law to finance public debt from the central bank. To be quite specific, honourable Member, according to the European Central Bank, the foundations have implemented illicit monetary funding by buying government bonds and thus trying to influence public debt in some way. In other words, the European Central Bank has condemned you for what you have mentioned now, for what a serious and respectable role the central bank has played in the past year. I would also like to respond to Mr Hollik, who tried to revolve with him - otherwise I would ask in brackets where he is, because he objected to the fact that my fellow cook is not in the room. I do not miss Mr Hollik, because what he is saying, in particular, I think it is not interesting, but neither does Mr Hollik have a report, nor does László Szakács, but the president of the MNB. I trust that one day they will call the President of the National Bank László Szakács, then he will obviously be here, from beginning to end of the report. But now, as an opposition representative, I think that if you have said your speech, it is not objectionable to leave the Chamber, so I note that in the Socialist Group, count how many of us are sitting here, on the other hand, there is not one KDNP representative in the Chamber, none because István Hollik has gone out. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbály: There is no KDNP.]] Now, back to what we've been doing, and I'm sorry, I'd like to stop one more time. With great respect, I welcome Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State, who, although extremely late, has finally arrived at the debate, unfortunately you could not hear the report of the president of the MNB, because at the time he was not here, but at least now someone represents the government in this debate, and now at least there is a secretary of state who is exercising ownership rights in the case of the Hungarian National Bank. It wouldn't have been bad if it had been that way from the start. Let me urge Mr Secretary of State not to sit in his seat, but to come to the velvet chair as Secretary of State and to respond here as Secretary of State to what has been said in this debate. I hope that you will do so, and I also hope that, by joining my fellow Member, Mr Z. Karpa, that Mr. Vice-President will not want to respond in the closet either, when Members no longer have the opportunity to react, but the points that we have formulated and formulated here in the future will be answered by you in such a way that another debate can be reached. For he knows that the debate is not about the summation of revelations, but about the fact that we can deny or confirm each other's arguments. So I wish you would stop acting like the Fidesz guys do, but do it to get into the debate. Well, then we've been talking about the fact that Péter Polt's wife and daughter are working there for high pay in the central bank; this was the case in 2016. Then we talked about how the Attorney General's office was assigned. Let's look at a few other things worth mentioning, starting with Mr. Matolcsy's salary. In other respects, my fellow cook has already talked about this and mentioned it. You know, it could be argued that this is justified or not justified, if, by the way, the salary of another person in Hungarian society was not a driving force in the European Union. Because I believe that a responsible leader does not start the raise, but downstairs, the nurses, the doctors, the firefighters, the police, not the president of the Hungarian National Bank. [[11.20]] That is my opinion and I think the opinion of the majority of society. Well, the other thing is that again it would be okay if Hungarian public life hadn't been yelled out of a full throat at the time that the wages of state leaders were brazenly high, so you maximize it in 2 million forints. Fidesz maxed out the salary of György Matolcsy's predecessor in HUF 2 million. When your man gets there, they'll raise him to 5 million. You're not being rude now, are you? The guy over 2 million forints was brazen, say, six or seven years ago, but not today, right? Where's the logic in that? 'Cause I'm trying to find him. I just can't find him. The same is true of the members of the Monetary Council and of everyone else who is senior head of the National Bank. So, I'll tell you honestly, I'd rather consider it a good idea to think and get inside, to raise the salaries of nurses who earn 130 gross, and a head nurse is forced to go and clean up in a second job, and not the salary of the President of the Hungarian National Bank from 2 to 5 million. Now, let's move on to the series of scandals that concern 2016, the foundations and the person of György Matolcsy. He says that vs.hu has nothing to do with his relative. Well, yes, I apologize to György Matolcsy this way, because his cousin didn't buy it directly, but offshore companies belonging to his cousin's interest. It's a big difference, isn't it? That's the point. 'Cause I think if we're not looking at cases as a court-martial employee, it doesn't matter. Whatever. It's hers anyway, it's hers. But, speaking of which, in order to expand the range of media businesses, the Matolcsy family managed to buy the Origo for 2 billion forints. I would be happy if Vice President could at least refer to it - that is why, of course, György Matolcsy would be here, because he is a member of his family; and I'm sorry, yours, too, because you're related to the 7.5 billion people, right? - so you'd answer what the hell Adam Matolcsy bought the Origo for 2 billion forints. Where did he get the money for this? Would I be delighted - or did Mr. Semerey's bank fund this, the cousin's? By the way, the bank that practically sells the loans of the Hungarian National Bank specializes in that, even its name is Growth and Credit Bank. How interesting, the products of the growth credit program are sold by the bank of the Cousin of the Central Bank President! You don't think that's a problem? I think it is. Is that what you're saying, we're at war with the market economy? Don't make me laugh. You're not making fun of me. You're making fun of yourselves. Then let me ask you why it's good, or how it can be explained that people close to Fidesz are getting benefits that are surprising to me at least. How come Gábor Borókai got one of these, their former government spokesperson? How is it that Balázs Hidvégi, the current communications director, received such a scholarship from the Hungarian National Bank, 300 thousand forints, but it is not enough that he, even his wife, has received such a scholarship? Does he work at the central bank, too? Because we know that Hidvégi is, yes, an advisor to your president, but your wife? Him, too? For example, you could answer that, Mr. Vice President, in case you know. Then I would like to ask you, because we have never had one answer: there must have been a conference in Jamaica that was absolutely necessary to travel three times to central bank employees. Mr. Vice President, could you do me a favor, Mr. Matolcsy, to tell me what the hell was going on in Jamaica? What did they do? How much did it cost? What professional program and why did you attend it? Then I would also like to ask you, if we are already in the family, is it not that your current wife is still a lover of the President of the Central Bank, why she received a salary of HUF 600 000 from the foundations; and why she also received the credit from you, Mr Vice-President, why she received it. Of course, Zita Vajda, I am sorry, we could now open a separate chapter on Zita Matolcsy, and then, obviously, my fellow Members will talk about it. Then, if you're against the offshore knights, tell me, Mr. Vice President, why you bought billions from an offshore company... or why you gave billions to buy the Eiffel Palace. I know you have an anachronistic fascination with castles and palaces, which is why, obviously, Mr. Matolcsy's cousin's bank provided Flórian Farkas with a loan of over 100 million forints to buy a castle. Then, in order to be a little professional, would you tell me, Mr Vice-President, how you stand for the imposition of a public procurement fine in 66 cases of 112 contracts that you have examined, which, of course, you did not pay with your high salary, but we paid with public money again. It was mostly the billion-dollar construction contracts. This is also interesting, because you give such assignments to whom, by the way, is a miracle: to Market Zrt., which belongs to István Garancsi, the rope friend of Viktor Orbán, as he said, and to Lőrinc Mészáros, I may not have to introduce him here in Parliament. Then I would also like to ask you why there was an MNB director who, in addition to his work - I am not mistaken in my mouth - had nine posts at the MNB foundations and companies. Then my fellow Member, Tamás Harangozó, will talk about why you need a private army to spend 200 million just for the procurement of ammunition. Are you guys that scared at the central bank? By the way, I wouldn't be surprised at that, because if the Feds show up there, they're gonna be a real pain in the ass. Then the art purchases. Well, that's a great thing. It's a very good thing, for 43 million forints it's probably justified to buy a table, it's probably justified to buy carpets for more than 20 million, and for tens of millions forints for furniture collections. I don't think it is. You can work under more modest circumstances. In fact, it may be unjustified to spend 190 million forints on sports support, although obviously your employees deserve it; and if there were no scandal, these people would have traveled to the national banks' Olympics with a charter machine, to your home tournament. I'm sure it's a reasonable expense, isn't it, Mr. Vice President? Then it is possible to continue with the fact that the relatives, not the 7.5 billion, only those few cousins, you know, Mr. Szemerey, have acquired their interests. For example, as they bought the brewery in Pécs, interestingly, they became the suppliers of the water world. This is certainly the result of an accidental tender, as they were the best candidates - and we only have a market economy problem. And then what do you think of the reasonable suspicion that the records of the central bank foundations have been tampered with? The signatures were copied as a picture, and also misplaced, because György Matolcsy was demoted from the chairman of the Board of Trustees - which is obviously why he is entitled to money - to become a secretary. Referring to decisions later than the date of the signature is a kind of visionary ability, psychic ability. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I could still look at my paper here, where we have noted the abuses that were still being done - for example, the money paid in one quarter for subsidies of over HUF 217 million - but since the time has run out, and since, thank God, my fellow Members have prepared speeches, it must be finished here. But I would be happy if Mr Vice-President could at least respond to this small package here in this debate so that we can actually have a debate, whether it be Mr Secretary of State or even one of the Fidesz Members. Say hello to István Hollik again in the room. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-18-32	Thank you very much. I would like to point out to Mr Gergely Bárándy that I really do not have the opportunity for President György Matolcsy to be here, although I myself do not consider him very fortunate, but this is a completely different question. It is now possible to make a two-minute comment, and I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Harangozó.
u2017-10-18-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would really like to ask you a few questions about this area very briefly, because in 2016 the public was very concerned, I read that . The head of the MNB, György Matolcsy's central bank, founded his own personal guard. He also enjoys the active assistance of the police. MNB-Safe Services Ltd., which has been recruited by the Counter-Terrorism Centre, the Emergency Police. a personal bodyguard company based on an article based on György Matolcsy's own defense. [[11.30]] Back in the day, I tried to find out about it, and I was at the company's headquarters. It turned out here that not only the TEK and not only the Alert Police, but also the Secret Service itself, the former National Security Bureau, now the staff or staff of the Constitutional Protection Office are strengthening this team. We would like to continue to know why this was necessary. Why is it not good for you to use the police of the Republic of Hungary? Why do you have to build your own company for this? What happened to Qualitas Kft., which, by the way, also dealt with personal protection activities, and then at least it was supposed to be liquidated? How much is the taxpayer's activity? Because their annual accounts only show that in 2006 the capital was increased by HUF 10 million and the capital reserve was increased by HUF 530 million in a year. I think it would be nice to know, and it would be nice for the citizens of the taxpayer to know how much this pass, this security company, is being held for a year, and exactly what that company is doing as part of the report. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-10-18-34	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes in a normal time frame.
u2017-10-18-35	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I figured out why György Matolcsy ran away, probably because it's the 18th today, and as we know, he's afraid of the number 8. He's afraid of number 8, because the National Bank would be at 8 on Freedom Square, but he took number 8 off of him. Probably because it's the 18th, it ends in an 8th, so for some reason he was afraid of this day, so he left the room. I think it's that simple. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Not even ten million times a day...]] Maybe it's not even ten million times a day, and he didn't save her from this day. Well, this is something like this, ladies and gentlemen, we should do this debate another time without having an 8 in the date, and preferably not at 8:00 or not at 9:08, because in the end, the President of the National Bank is going to run away anyway. I think about a lot of things when we listen to György Matolcsy say that he is not related to these gentlemen, whom we have listed on many occasions, and then we find out that he has 7.5 billion relatives. I very much hope that we do not have to raise all 7.5 billion from and around the Hungarian National Bank, because then all Hungarian citizens can see themselves, because we have to work properly to support this good family. What I would like to talk about very, very much - because I feel that not only the horse's foot is hanging out, but the whole horse - is Matolcsy's family and his family, because in 2016 they were able to play kistafírung properly. In 2016, if we watch this whole year, if we just look at your son, he's done pretty well on his own. He claims that in most cases he works on a market basis; well, if this is the market-based work, that cousins, uncles, small relatives, state companies are sapphirunging his companies, giving him credit, and even housing where he should live, then I think that they would be very happy to work on a market basis for the same 31-year-old young people in the country in a number of cases. He himself said in an interview that he could buy the furniture factory in Balaton himself - by the way, it is a company operating on a market basis - that he had received some support from a relative, and then to talk about a company operating on a market basis, the National Court of Justice only quickly issued a tender of 350 million, which he won to supply this office with furniture. So it's easy enough. He was the one who in another interview also said that winning a public procurement is everything but a gift, because very, very hard conditions have to be met. I think that very, very many people would be happy to meet these conditions, and that many young people of that age would be at the disposal of the Hungarian state and would work with honor in this large family, because this large family is now a little bit like only people who actually belong to this large family, who are near Fidesz, who have a Fidesz party book, or who are related to the first ten people with Fidesz party books, because they can't get anywhere else in the neighborhood, because those who have only a simple Fidesz party book are slowly missing from good juicy jobs. Let's see if this was the furniture factory you accidentally bought from your uncle! But not only have we managed to buy a furniture factory, but also, say, a news portal called Origo, which has since turned big on this issue, and you can see on this page the work of the governing party on how much change can be made by the change of ownership in an independent media. There are very, very big questions about whether it's fair, whether it's okay. It's okay that you make laws that end up looking legit. However, as my fellow Member, Mr Gergő, said, that he looks legitimate does not make him ethical. And if we tell these stories on the market to the voters, the knife will open up in their pockets, because they say that children, something is very wrong here, this National Bank is not about the country, but it is not about us Hungarian people, it is about families being small-timed. And what is truly outrageous is that from the Hungarian National Bank, which should be a really high-ranking, prestigious bank, the president himself made a laughing stock, who actually talks about red dots and denies relatives and then finds 7.5 billion relatives. With all due respect to the people who work there - as Vice President - because otherwise it can be very, very difficult to bear. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: There is that money!]] That there are people who really want to work and do their job, and they have their boss who says something every week that makes the whole country laugh. This happened several times in 2016. And really, since the names of György Matolcsy and the National Bank come up, many people smile because they know that something very funny has been said again in Parliament or in one of the interviews. I understand that they are trying to cover up all these family fortunes, small-scale, money-sharing with each other with these ridiculous stories; I think that many times we can find out who was being paid and how, but really not just the horse's foot is hanging out, but also the horse. Ladies and gentlemen, This can't go on! It cannot go on without György Matolcsy leaving the hall, as he said, does not speak in substance from the year 2016, by the way, he does not mention in substance what the Hungarian National Bank has done, what has already lost its public money character again, who and what has been paid by the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank, that János Áder should be called upon to say that it should now be published what is being paid by a foundation. Your own people can't take it slowly and cover up all the things you've done. I think it's very, very difficult to work in this bank, although it's probably for those salaries and extra allowances that the shoulders of those who work there can bear. So I really, really hope that György Matolcsy will come back to the room, even if it has 18th and 8th numbers in it, and he will try to explain to us what he did in 2016, who he paid, how much money he gave, because that is what the operation of the Hungarian National Bank is all about. And, of course, they can say that foreign exchange loan holders have been well saved, but even foreign exchange lenders can see that when they look at their accounts, the profits of the Hungarian National Bank have increased very much, and they somehow do not feel that they have been saved. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, it is not for us to comply, but for the voters, and not only for the voters who vote for you, but for all the voters in the country. And the fact that most of the population today say that they would not go to vote is due to their actions, because you have made this country ridiculous and have ridiculed the National Bank. That's what they should change. You've got eight months left. It's really hard to get rid of these stamps, but I think we should start. Thank you. [[11.40]]
u2017-10-18-36	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény.
u2017-10-18-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There is an old saying that we should only quote classics precisely; I will not be accurate now, I will just draw an analogy. The President of the Central Bank, in his reply to a speech, began by saying bluff, bluff, bluff. I would put this in a small analogy with regard to the activities of the central bank in a way that is a scandal, scandal, scandal, even if Congressman Hollik will not like it, even if Congressman Hollik is outraged that everyone in opposition speakers has already said that it is unprecedented for the President of the Central Bank to come here, to tell his personal report, and then he will storm out of the room and not listen to the opposition criticisms and opinions that would concern last year's activities of the institution led by him. Yeah, we're talking about last year, 2016. Congressman Hollik, of course, in his good habit, began to go back to the past eight years, although it has been going on in the House for seven years, he talked about 2008, 2009 and the rest, but we should rather talk about the scandals of 2016 and 2016 because, as I said, scandals have not avoided the Hungarian National Bank, its operation and its top management. We could say that he is a comedian, but it is rather tragical what happens to the Hungarian National Bank and what happens in the management of the Hungarian National Bank. My fellow Members have listed the scandals that are connected to the National Bank of Hungary until about tomorrow morning. President Matolcsy came here, said a semi-winning report and a half-political attack instead of talking about the profession, what was the activity of 2016 and then stormed off. He forgot to talk about how, let's say, his five million-dollar salary had come to pass, he forgot to mention that he was one of them, let's just say, he was one of them, after Viktor Orbán, of course, that he couldn't pay more than two million forints. See a miracle when their involvement appears, interestingly, we are talking not only about two million forints, but rather about five million forints' salary. But interestingly, his salary is almost the same, or it may be exactly the same, I'm sorry if I don't know the correct number, the wife of Péter Polt, who, as we know, is the chief prosecutor in Hungary. After that, we managed, as Congresswoman Heringes rightly said, to run the Hungarian National Bank in practically a family business, although we do not wonder if anyone has seven and a half billion relatives. I understand, let's just say that in the spirit of family solidarity, we have to put our relatives in a small part of the family, but that is more than a bit of a tricky thing, in our opinion. Then, obviously, it is much more serious, because it is a much larger number in its volume, the case of the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank, where it says at the time, at the level of faction leaders, Lajos Kósa, that the public money loses its public money. Interestingly, if this were to be explained either in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County or in Zala or in Nógrád, it would be quite difficult to explain, but my fellow Member, Szakács, has already offered the opportunity to the President of the Central Bank - I would like to confirm that only in order to be included in the minutes, and the Vice-President will be able to say to the President - we would be happy to offer him the opportunity to come and explain to the people in several places how the public money lost its public money, how it was that HUF 260 billion was practically missed, how it was attempted to disappear, and, in any case, when several representatives turned to the public interest in this matter, how they did not try to fulfill it, and finally they were obliged to do so, and when it turned out, the explanation was simple: the public money lost its public money. I might add that it could be called a great Lajos Kósa figure, but we could call it a scandal after all. Or again, it is connected to the central bank's activities that New Wave Media, represented by the name of István Kry, managed to recreate the Origo and Versus and other similar portals. Simply, the central bank does not carry out central bank activities, but either executes Fidesz or Viktor Orbán orders, it operates in the same way as public money, using public funds as if it were a buddy company. We think that the professionalism is seriously compromised, and the Hungarian National Bank does not play the role that it would otherwise have to play under the law, but perhaps even if I could use this word, it would, in vain, transfer funds to friends, operate family businesses from it, which, by the way, would say are very far from the Hungarian reality, but it is only far from the reality of small people, ordinary Hungarian citizens, because otherwise in your interest, we might say it is already part of the normal course of business. We find it outrageous, as I said at the beginning: scandal, scandal, scandal. With this word, we can categorize the annual performance of the Hungarian National Bank, so that we can virtually characterize the activities of the National Bank. György Matolcsy should resign, we have said it for a long time, we have said it several times, and if he does not resign, he would at least be here to respond to the speeches made in the opposition debate, but this is simply unacceptable. Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity.
u2017-10-18-38	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2017-10-18-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, I could say that I stood up now, and I might as well sit down, because when György Matolcsy came in here, he understood what he said: he didn't report, he violated house rules, and then he took himself, left the Chamber, and sent his deputy, the vice-president, in his place, as is the case in some cases when we want to address him. Let me have a few thoughts, though. My colleague told me that György Matolcsy lives in the charm of numbers, runs the central bank, and one of his great fears is the eight. Then we'll be very happy about it, because it looks like you won't be coming to work in 2018, because if you're an eight, then 2018 won't be a good year for György Matolcsy. But that makes these things more serious, which my fellow Members have said here, than that we should fall for this summatismic feat or the President's fear. I'd like to project it ahead, and I resent that György Matolcsy thinks I'm related to him. Don't insult me. I'm not related to him, and I don't want to be related to him, and I think there's a lot of us in this country who think they'd really like it if they didn't have anything to do with him, and they don't even know this man. György Matolcsy comes into this Parliament week after week, and the way he behaves is not worthy of the Hungarian National Bank or the Hungarian Parliament. The whole man is one [[Three clicks:]] bluff, bluff, bluff. The only problem is that he manages the National Bank of Hungary, one of the largest institutions, the most important institution of this country. Many scandals have been said by the speakers before me, so let me say another scandal, although Gergely Bárándy mentioned: György Matolcsy - women's affairs and scandals. How much longer does this country have to live with its ex-wife, mistress, current wife, next lover, next wife, and who knows how many more women with taxpayers' money? The taxpayers' money! [[11.50]] Zita Vajda: this name is well known, she has a successful career, although we wanted to get to know her from a professional perspective rather than as György Matolcsy's mistress, because it might have been better. But let me give you a few more thoughts about the first wife I'm going to quote. In 2014, we managed to establish a village to become mayor, which is unprecedented in Hungary. At the time, in 2014, they said: "My husband and I were involved in his separation from Akarattya's Kenese. We helped the initiative in the background, and we also helped it to succeed in crossing the red tape mazes. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Then Balatonakarattya succeeded in divorcing Balatonkenese, and, thank God, a separate settlement was created, and he could become Mayor Matolcsy Gyöngyi. We hope that after they have divorced, the settlement will not suffer this, and will be a good leader, because the inhabitants deserve not to be disadvantaged by the settlement after they have divorced. But let's talk about something a little more serious. It was news in 2017 that Zita Vajda had a very significant loan and a very nice apartment with the help of the President of the National Bank in Budapest, Naphegy. Then let me give you some data. Today, many families in Hungary suffer from the failure to get rid of their foreign currency loans and are in the vicinity of eviction. There are about 900,000 owners on the verge of eviction, because they cannot pay their loan in Hungary. Mr. Vice President. Give my message to György Matolcsy. I'd like to tell him that these families want 0.9 percent credit, immediate intervention and immediate assistance. If Zita Vajda is entitled, then she is entitled to 900,000 owners, because they are also related to György Matolcsy. We hope that your relatives, as György Matolcsy in this serious institution, here in this House, in the Hungarian Parliament, have told us that he has seven and a half billion relatives. I demand that you be instructed as a Hungarian voter who is not related to György Matolcsy to help these families with 0.9 percent interest! And please don't give me a million forints like Zita Vajda, she's got a lot of money, so help these Hungarian families out. Moreover, the majority of these families raise children. Mr. Vice President. I can see how you're holding your head, it must be hard for you. Believe me, I'd feel bad if I were you, too, very bad, because your boss is a coward like there aren't a lot of people in this country. And I don't want to say in a worse way what we say to a man like that in the country, there's only one good old proverb: there's no country for a coward. György Matolcsy doesn't either; he has a bank, the Hungarian taxpayers' money, and he has it as his own. It's just, Mr. Vice President, and I'm gonna finish it, because I'm getting really nervous, and I hope there's gonna be a time, because 18 is the charm of the numbers, and I hope that this is the year that György Matolcsy can start to be afraid. I believe that there will be accountability, that he will have to account for it someday. But to send a message to KDNP politicians: sooner or later, everyone will have to account for it before God. In front of God, everyone, but I believe that György Matolcsy will not account for it in front of the Good Lord, and that period, I think, in this country, there are many citizens waiting for it. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-10-18-40	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman László Teleki.
u2017-10-18-41	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, My fellow Members may not like the opposition side, but I am glad that Matolcsy is my relative. [[Deterioration from the benches of the MSZP.]] Because that way there's at least one Roma brother in this country who's wealthy. [[Delight and applause from the benches of MSZP and Jobbik.]] That is why I am particularly pleased that I have such a wealthy relative, because I did not know that I had such a wealthy relative, so I am very pleased and I apologise to my fellow opposition Members. But seriously, if he says that, then I have to say that it's a pleasure for me. [[Lajos Korózs intervenes.]] When I read the report, I think there was only one reason why I thought I should be here, because today there are a lot of poor people in Hungary. There are poor people who live on wages and salaries every day, and when I've seen the salaries that I've never dealt with, who pays what, who owns a car, who owns an apartment, it's everyone's private business, but when I added it up, it doesn't have to be a very big mathematical genius, how much is 5 million forints a year, 60 million forints. And I don't want to be a populist, 60 million forints. I've been looking at some data from the KSH data on what this means by translating it into another language. A teacher's average wage, a teacher who worked for 15 years, has a 15-year working relationship: 140,000 forints a month, 1 million 680,000 forints against 60 million forints. Once again, 140,000 forints will be returned to a teacher who will be entrusted to him at 7:30 in the morning - 7:30 in the morning! - 30 or 40 kids, and by the evening, those kids have to be taught knowledge, and parents have to be told that the child has the number - so I'm sorry. The responsibility of teachers is unprecedented, and compared to what you are looking for, they bring home 140 thousand forints a month. So it's outrageous! It is also outrageous that hospital staff - I also give KSH data - bring home 120,000 forints a month. 120,000 forints a month! That's a million forty thousand forints per year against 60 million. Is it okay that those who, by the way, care for and care for patients, heal them, take that kind of money home? And at the end of the month, it's not that they may be collecting to go skiing or on vacation next summer, it's that they can pay the checks. It's not populist either, believe me, Mr. Vice President, I'm bringing these numbers from the real world, and these are my life experiences, by the way. Have you thought about how these hospital workers can make a living from day to day, or the teachers I mentioned? But I'd like to say two more things. Employees: 80,000 HUF/month, 840 thousand HUF/year, against 60 million HUF/year. I know they say they don't have that high school education, but in practice these people have worked a lot, they have been working in the system for 30-40 years, because they can't leave with a reduced pension before time, so they can rest, who have worked 30-40 years, and that's what they can take home in a year, I say again, 840 thousand forints. Let me give you one more number. More than 1 million pensioners receive HUF 80,000 per month from the postman. Over 1 million pensioners get that, 80,000 forints! [[Lajos Korózs: not 80,000...]] I'm telling you, I'm drawing data from KSH so they don't tell me I want to miss, it's 840 thousand forints a year. [[12.00]] I know you won't be touched by this, because you can see that there's no synchronization between your wages and the wages of the real world, but you don't care. Believe me, these employment sectors I've listed are either professions, professional teachers or nurses, and they're thinking about how they can make a living every month. So that's all I wanted to say. It is your responsibility, in addition, to receive and apply for grants or other grants. Their souls will have to be reckoned with someday. The scholarships. I don't want to point out who you've given a scholarship to. But you know, Mr. Vice President - let me talk about my own territory - how many gypsies can't get to college and college because you don't have enough money to fund the family's budget for further education? Nearly 230,000. I know you're saying it's none of your business again. But with the money spent buying paintings or spending real estate, buying castles, it could have been targeted, let's say, a scholarship program like this, where not relatives, friends, but needy people get scholarship support. There are still financing problems in my area that the government cannot solve alone, and they say that in many cases you support the recovery of the government. Then why don't you help me get rid of the gypsy settlements? Why don't you announce that program? Why do they advertise a scholarship program for themselves? There are 120,000 people with no prospect of life. There are 120,000 people in extreme poverty. Mr. Vice President, I hope that we will also have an answer, even if you have a very good conversation with my fellow Member. I'm sure it's not important what I'm saying because they're saying it's just an opposition representative. Believe me, every single sentence of mine is based on the fact that I brought it out of life, and I see what problems there are, and you're throwing away the money that you say you don't have to account for because it's not taxpayers' money. So it's just outrageous that we got here. Mr. Vice President, I'm glad you're here. If I could, I'd appoint you president of the MNB, because at least you're here and you've been here for the last time, and you've still received and took the blows we gave you from the opposition side. So you're a real gentleman. You can't say that about Matolcsy. If I could say it again, I'd like to appoint you president of the MNB today, because you've not once agreed to be here with us and to listen to what we're saying. So I have my hat off to you, saying it in a pestely way. We can't tell you that about your president. He doesn't have to translate, he's probably watching on television what people say, and he's noticing who said what, which could be very important. But one thing is certain: the 2016 report on the opposition side - I know it doesn't matter - can't be accepted, partly because of what I said and what my fellow Members said about the opposition side, even on the Jobbik side, should be taken into account. But again, as you have done in recent years, you will not pay attention to one sentence of what you cannot spend on the money you call profit, 50 million or 100 million forints. because they told me two sums of money how to manage it well so that the country can grow and see the improvements that the government is launching, and they're coupled with your resources. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-10-18-42	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Imre Horváth.
u2017-10-18-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice President, I'd ask you to listen, because you won't be able to pass on what I have to say to Mr. Matolcsy. I think that Mr Matolcsy violated not only the Socialist faction in his report by saying that he took our presence and our comments as a political attack. I think you see it's not a political attack, it's facts, numbers, facts. We were sent to Parliament by voters to represent their interests. We represent the interests of millions of people, such as 25 percent of the Hungarian population, who have debt, debt, rent and utility debt. We represent the evicted, the brokers. We represent the poor people. We represent those who are underfunded by education and health. Please translate to Mr Matolcsy for apologies to this society. Several of my fellow Members have said that I would like to mention a few things in reverse. We've been talking about Jamaican travels. I would like to mention a few examples in this regard. A two-week Jamaican trip between 1-16 April, when there was no economic conference or event in Jamaica, so it was not justified for this central bank worker to participate, the cost of the two-week trip was HUF 2 million. Half of that's travel expenses. Prior to this, Jamaica also had a seven-day trip in February, with a total cost of HUF 1 million, of which the travel cost was HUF 400,000. Here, the MNB was able to get the plane ticket at half the price, like a month and a half later. There were times when the MNB paid 432,000 for one night. There have been 1.6 million forints trip back and forth. Then, in May, an international conference was held in Jamaica, but this time he spent more time there than the length of the conference, with four central bank employees. The conference was between 14-18th, but two central banks started on May 10th, but two of their partners flew to Budapest only on May 13th. They finally came home together on May 21st. The 12.9 day journey cost 4.8 million and 3.4 million HUF respectively. For the public institution, the travel cost in both cases was slightly over HUF 1 million. Next year there will be a conference in Hungary, so at least the bank doesn't have to spend it. You explained the Jamaican travels by preparing for this event in Hungary, which connects all four Jamaican roads. That's what voters should be told why we're traveling here on public money. My fellow Member Bárándy also dealt with sports. If there were no Olympics in Budapest, then 120 people were originally paid to France, then they felt the risk of scandal and only 50 people were sent out. Thus, the support of the sports club increased to 190 million, which is 120 thousand forints a year per member. According to the Socialist Group, it is also important to have a healthy lifestyle, but there is no reason why, in addition to salary increases exceeding the average of the banking sector, the national bank employees' hobbies are also financed with public funding. Therefore, we demand that they stop spreading money, account for what they spend 120 thousand forints a year per sports club member. Make the remuneration of the central bank staff visible, as more and more extra benefits will be made available, from almost free housing loans to vacations in the castle of Tiszaroff to free sports. Thank you. I look forward to your answers.
u2017-10-18-44	Thank you. We have reached the end of the announced speakers. So now it's time for the normal people to say the word. Congressman Nándor Gúr will take the floor first. [[12.10]]
u2017-10-18-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now that we have reached the end of all the speakers that have been registered in advance, I can ask Vice-President Martin Nagy to press a button, to tell him that he wishes to answer the questions that have been raised. It's not a very fair game that you're playing, that you don't even want to answer while you're going, but you're gonna wait for the other speakers now, and then you're gonna say something about what happened. No, argue, discuss everything we're talking about. It's simply because it doesn't honor us, it honors voters. Not just those who have chosen us, or who, thanks to us, are here in Parliament, but everyone who has gone to choose. You have a dog's duty in Parliament to answer the questions asked, and I will say it again: not in the end, no one wants to know. If you have one drop of decency, now you are sitting here instead of Matolcsy, you will answer; I tell you, not at the end, on the way. Look, I have to go back to a question that I've already touched, and that is whether or not you've lost your public money, your public wealth, or your 260 billion forints worth of money. You know, if you don't know, let's make it clear what this scale means; it's obvious to you, but not to the voters. This magnitude means, for example, for the population of 28,000 inhabitants of a Kazincbarcika-sized town, that everyone from the newborn to the young person can buy property worth approximately HUF 10 million each for the money we are talking about. Or if I take into account Hungary's second or third largest city, a Debrecent or a Szeged, for each person, from the newborn to the young man again, for each person 1.2, for Debrecen 1.5 million forints, if you didn't take this money away from people. But not to take such a plastic approach, so I'm saying that if they had only done what they would have had to do in the case of foreign exchange lenders, for example, that the conversion would have been made on 365 instead of 260. do so in terms of taking over the burden, and do not profit from it, on a multitude of people of the most unlucky fates, which would have covered it well. So what I'm trying to say is that you should learn what your job is, the Hungarian National Bank. It's not profit making, it's not making money, it's being used arbitraryly. Of course, they do so in a way that they do not receive very modest remuneration. How much does Matolcsy make? I think that's what everyone in Hungary knows now. Matolcsy makes 5 million forints a month. [[Lajos Korózs: If that's all you're earning!]] 'Yes, if that's all you're making,' said my fellow Members. This is the official salary of the Hungarian National Bank. But it could be about other people, more. Obviously, knowing the wages and salaries of the central bank, we can conclude that they are not without. You really don't lack me. The three vice presidents receive 90% of the President of the Central Bank's earnings, i.e. HUF 4.5 million. And there are six executive directors, as far as I know, who receive HUF 4 million,950,000. My fellow member mentioned that Mrs Polt is part of this circle, with a salary of HUF 4 million and HUF 950 thousand. She's the wife of the Attorney General. I'm sure it's just a coincidence. It can't be anyone else. How is it different? ! The chairman of the Supervisory Board, who used to sit here in the benches of Fidesz, receives HUF 3.5 million of monthly welfare. But the board members aren't crippled either. They have 3 million forints. I have counted more than 20 leaders who receive a monthly sum of more than HUF 3 million within the framework of the Hungarian National Bank. I don't want to talk about the fact that they're married to state workers. Your salary is going to develop with the families of Matolcsy or Polt in mind, but we see that you earn far more than, say, the head of the State Audit Office or the Prime Minister. Of course, I'm not sorry about him with his HUF 1 million, 724,000 income either. But those of you who I feel sorry for and for whom I should do and for whom I should work, and who you would have to do so, have already been mentioned here today for some thought. Think of the meanness that has been done, for example, to those who work in the lowest income range. These people used to hold net net worth of HUF 60 200 in 2010. Then they were brought to them via Zsiga Marcelle - we know his statements - a HUF 47,000 public employment wage. That's 54,000 forints today, that's the net. Today, seven years later, compared to 2010, these people make HUF 6,000 less in net terms and in absolute terms than they did seven years ago. And if I look at this in purchasing power, then these people have lost at least one third of their previously acquired money, or maybe more than that. The same thing happened when I stepped up a little bit, in the case of minimum wage earners, it looked like the gross was raised to the sky, the net suffered a relatively solid rise, it was worth 10 percent more in purchasing power than in 2010, but these people were stolen for five years because they had less purchasing power money in their hands. But let's look at the employees under the guaranteed minimum wage, you know, the ones they're telling us about last year and this year, what wage increases are going to happen. The gross amount of these people is 161 thousand forints, if you add the employer's burden, they cost roughly 200,000 forints a month, and they receive 107 thousand forints. What I'm trying to say is that you're stealing from these people, too. They steal it simply because these people pay much more contributions than they paid in 2010. The minimum wage paid in 2010 with its employer is HUF 32,000, while now it is HUF 73,000. I told you, there is no significant difference between the wages of the 10th and the 17th, but the charges and taxes doubled, not doubled, but grew from 32 to 73,000 forints, and suffered an increase of 41,000 forints. So if you look at the range of people who are not around 5 million forints per month in terms of remuneration, where you are, and even on an annual basis, horribly away from this amount, because the 1 million forints are being grazed from the bottom, then I have to say that you are absolutely not interested in them. Of course, we know you Fidesz don't usually care about people, you don't care about working people, all you care about is that your friends, your pereputty, your relatives are okay, and you can get as much money out of the system as you can. But it would also be worth seeing to you that more than half of the people working in Hungary are making a tax return, because it is the reality that they do not earn the amount of the minimum living per person, as it is related to their tax return on an average monthly basis, on the basis of their tax returns submitted to the National Tax and Customs Office. [[12.20]] I think that, on the other hand, the magnitude, the insolence of the order of HUF 5 million, and, on the other hand, the insolence when you were in a hard fight with incomes above HUF 2 million, and then after you got to the government's pole, you forgot this fight, and you made these monthly amounts for yourself. It's a picy part of the thing, that buddies, even those who can't be classified in the budget sphere, because that's where they set the maximum of HUF 5 million, for example, the MÁV as a budgetary sphere, right? - the head also receives a monthly income of HUF 5 million. Well, that's about how you operate, about you. And if I add to this what has already been mentioned here for a sentence, for example, what pensioners look like in Hungary today, what their care looks like, then I will tell you that you will be able to respond effectively and respond to wages, so that today the minimum pension rate in Hungary is 28 500 forints, that today between 28 500 forints and 50 thousand forints there are about 400 thousand people living as pensioners or pensioners, so many people will receive pension or pension-like benefits between 28 500 forints and 50 thousand forints. I said, to a maximum of 50,000 forints; you know, this one hundredth is part of what Matolcsy can validate in his monthly salary, what he receives. We should be wondering if that's okay. But I also have to add that my friends are paid for. Who they are, of course, because they get these money by other means. Let's not talk about the pereputty and the relatives. I find it scandalous what we have in this regard today in relation to wages. Speaking of wages, there are two more thoughts about this. In five years, payments were practically seven times higher than the central bank's decision-makers. In the last full year of the previous central bank president, in 2012, I'm sure you know it, as you should know, the sum was HUF 355 million that was paid monthly for the MNBs, of which about HUF 60 million was added to executives and executive officials. Now the situation looks pretty much like this. Five years ago, it was HUF 64 million, now, in 2016, which we are talking about, in sum it was HUF 315 million, although not seven of them received this money, but nine, but still 64 million against 315, or 315 against 64 clearly and clearly show what increase it has brought. The first half of 2017 looks like the sum of HUF 233 million will be paid in the first half of 2017. How is it that wages increase seven times in five years at the Monetary Council, such changes are taking place in the decision-making role or body of the central bank, while, above all, what happens to the public employees, the lowest earners, pensioners. And while Matolcsy is talking about, of course, 5 million, what it is, we've done successful economic history and he's saying things. So, what's going on is a shock. And I'm telling you, it's a huge brazen thing to do in this regard. That's a lot of brazenness. It's just unacceptable. And I trust that these people will not tolerate it with their eyes closed, but will do all that needs to be done in the spring of 2018 and will draw conclusions and remove you from the centre of power you represent. What they need to learn is that you don't exercise power, you don't have to work in your own pockets. Your job in this country is to make as many people as possible better. And the kind of story you're talking about in terms of lending policy should be forgotten because you have so little to do with anything that happens in this regard on the labour market in this country in a positive sense. It's not enough. What is happening in the labour market is positive because it is coupled with a huge negative that 600 thousand people have been driven out of this country recently. In this way, labour demand is clearly shown in the country, so it is somewhat easier to get a job on certain areas of the country. The fact that people are able to earn a little more here and there than I have said, and it is dictated by compulsions, dictated by market constraints; the market constraints that no longer take Matolcsy's behaviour seriously, nor man himself, in my opinion. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-10-18-46	Thank you, Mr. Notary. I now give the floor to Congressman János Volner.
u2017-10-18-47	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice President, The Economic Committee carries out the political control of the central bank year after year, but our general experience was that this was achieved with extremely little effectiveness, since typically the questions asked there do not have a substantive answer, or Mr President gives a speech, Members ask different questions about it, and then at the very end they do not get an answer. I hope that it will be different here, and I would also like to draw the Vice-President's attention to the fact that you have the opportunity to join this stage of Parliament's debate, not just to say a closing word, but to debate this issue. A number of questions have been asked and raised by Members in opposition benches, to which you should respond in substance. If the President of the Central Bank has left you here, you have to do this. You have the right to do so. House rules give you the opportunity to do so. And if you really want to exercise Parliament's right of control, then that is also your duty to the current representative of the central bank, namely you. It is important to see that within the Parliament, within the Economic Committee, there has not been a Monetary Sub-Committee, which, in my opinion, should be able to exercise the functions of control of monetary policy after sufficient national security screening, after the signature of confidentiality declarations, to gain insight into the monetary affairs of the central bank and to really control the activities in the central bank. This is important because the interests of the State as owner are practically not reflected in the central bank. I know that the European Union requires the independence of the central bank, but this independence does not mean incomprehensibility, so virtually nobody controls the central bank in this way. I also think it is important to say that I understand, of course, why only the European Central Bank has control over the Hungarian National Bank. That's what's been written in the Central Bank Act. By the way, Viktor Orbán denied it lying in a radio interview when he was confronted with it. This was in one of the public radio broadcasts a few years ago. But it is the European Central Bank that can direct the Hungarian central bank. However, I think it is important to say that, in our view, the instrument of economic policy is complete if both fiscal policy and monetary policy are managed by the government of that State. At present, Hungarian economic policy, if the central bank were truly independent, would act as a one-armed giant, since it does not have an impact on the monetary policy instruments, at least in principle, on the government. What we can now see is that the central bank's resources are spent essentially on its own purposes and on the direct environment of Viktor Orbán. I have more points I would like to hear from you, Mr. Vice President. One is that the central bank's gold and foreign reserves have decreased by EUR 5.8 billion, by HUF 1880 million in the last year. I would like to ask why the central bank has zeroed the gold stock of the Hungarian state. What was the reason for this? What is the professional explanation for this? Would you like to change the situation that our gold supply has virtually been reduced by the central bank? I'd like an answer to that from you. I also consider it very important that the share of foreign exchange claims in assets has decreased from 86 per cent to 82 per cent. The President himself referred to the Greenspan.Guidotti rule at his hearing, which, of course, is also held by the various credit rating companies as a guide. I ask you whether the Hungarian National Bank considers the HUF 7557 million foreign exchange claim sufficient, given the amount of transfers Hungary expects from the EU. So, is this foreign exchange claim sufficient to cover it? [[12.30]] I go further: I have another question about the fact that the subscribed capital of the Hungarian National Bank represents only 0.1 percent of its balance sheet total, i.e. one thousand percent. It is obvious here that it is worth eliminating this very strange state of affairs that has lasted for many years and raising the subscribed capital. I ask whether the central bank has any intention in this regard, whether such ideas have been formulated, what are the pros and cons, which the central bank can mention in this regard. I also think it is important to say that 60 percent of the operating costs have been incurred by the central bank. I ask Mr. Vice President how many people pay 5 million forints a month, how many people pay 3 million forints, and how many people pay 2 million forints of the central bank. I also consider it important to say that the central bank is a public limited company which, contrary to the general rules of the Civil Code, does not have a general assembly. I'd like to ask you why there's this exception. Do you plan to change that? Will they submit a similar proposal to the government that would change that? I also think it is very important to say that it is a Hungaricum that is happening in Hungary at the central bank, that the distribution of dividends is decided by the board of directors. I ask where the interests of the owner, the Hungarian state appear here. It's a Hungaricum that practically doesn't exist. The government, when we were discussing the Central Bank Act, kept talking about the fact that there is a European example of everything. There are no examples of all these measures in law. It's based on an unprecedented central bank law. Last year, the central bank realised a profit of HUF 54 billion, and it is not the state as owner that decides what it will do with this profit, but the central bank management will decide what it will do with this incredibly large amount of money, completely ignoring the interests of the state, the owner. I would like to tell you that there are serious debates in Parliament about HUF 1-2 billion when we are discussing the budget law. A billion or two forints! And here we are talking about the fate of 54 billion forints, and there are no answers. It is also important to see that in the last four years the results of the Hungarian National Bank's exchange rate change amounted to more than HUF 1000 billion, which amounted to HUF 117 billion in 2016. Here, I would also like to ask the central bank management, as well as the representatives of the government, why the HUF 1000 billion, which represents a profit from the exchange rate change, has not been returned to the foreign exchange lenders. Why did the central bank make a profit on this, why did the central bank foundations have a huge share of this money? These are very serious issues, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about HUF 1000 billion. The government has not helped foreign exchange creditors who, by the way, often lose their homes, and we are now talking about more than 100,000 people and 100,000 families, including half a million people with family members. These people are under threat of eviction. Why didn't you help them? Was it more important to capitalize on central bank foundations, pay relatives, friends and acquaintances for good money, do different weird, virtually uncontrolled economic transactions and continue them for years? These are serious issues, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to ask you why, if the government has had such a serious success propaganda with regard to the growth credit programme, then why does this not continue at the moment. I know that the government's answer will be that the economy is raging, we're doing wonderfully, everything's fine, and now we don't need the growth credit program. But the government's intentions are completely different. Here I would remind you that, in principle, it was intended to help the small and medium-sized enterprises sector and to boost lending and boost the economy, but from the HUF 701 billion used in the first two pillars of the growth credit programme, only HUF 18 billion was added as a new loan to enterprises with fewer than ten employees. Ladies and gentlemen. Out of 701 billion forints, the children received 18 billion forints as a new loan. It can be seen, therefore, that the task of this loan was not to help real small businesses and not to grant loans, but rather to help government medium-sized enterprises, which are virtually invisible behind this loan and who benefit from it. I say that invisibly, because neither Parliament nor any other body to which the opposition may delegate representatives has no right, no legal opportunity to look into the categories of individuals and companies who have received a significant amount of these loans. I also think it is important to say that we think that this condition is absurd, and we have repeatedly stressed that it costs more than HUF 260 billion to the central bank foundations, and that the management of the central bank is practically managing this amount as its own money. I would like to point out to Mr Vice-President, and I would like to ask him to convey this message to Mr President, in any case, that I am referring to the rules on the accounting of the English central bank, the accounting of the result, how strict they are compared to the practice in Hungary. They're not handing out pocket money to the central bank, which you're free to have. They are extremely strict about the possible ways in which profits can be used. I think that there would be plenty to change in this area, because if you ask the average person on the street in Hungary today, you will say that what is happening in the area of central bank foundations is annoying. I would also like to mention that my timeframe allows us to see what has been formulated as a rescue measure in connection with the booming broker scandal. It should be recalled that for the first time, László Windisch, the head and vice-president of the Central Bank, responsible for financial supervision at that time, visited the meeting of the Economic Committee. He came in after the Quaestor scandal by drafting five points that should be included in Hungarian laws in order to prevent the next banking and broker scandal. When he presented these five points, I was able to tell him that I had already submitted all five points to the Parliament in autumn 2010 as my own amendment to the Financial Supervisory Act. Ladies and gentlemen, the brokerage scandal involving more than HUF 300 billion in damages could have been prevented if Fidesz and the MSZP had not voted out the proposals I have tabled in the autumn of 2010, creating a coalition. However, it was important to see that Fidesz and MSZP sided with the managers of bankers and fraudulent brokerage companies in such a way that no greater responsibility could be established as a personal responsibility for fraudulent brokers and bankers, no more stringent punishment could be imposed against them, and not every five years the law guarantees that a fraudulent brokerage company should not only be controlled, but much more frequently, at much more serious intervals. These are questions on which we would like a substantive answer from Mr Vice-President. I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that you are stepping out of this debate, but I ask you to take part in it, to respond to these substantive points, because they are important. Parliament can exercise its right of control over the central bank when a meaningful dialogue begins with a substantive debate and Members receive answers to questions. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian applauds.]]
u2017-10-18-48	Thank you very much. Now it is possible to make a two-minute comment. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpat.
u2017-10-18-49	Mr President, Dear House, Although I applauded my fellow Member, I have to argue with him in a sentence. It is clear that the MNB's fundamental objective is not to participate in this debate, but to prevent any transparent process. So, Mr. Vice President, it seems to me that you are not going to take this fight manly, and you are not going to stand up until we can have a word. Perhaps the order of business could be an exception. [[12.40]] Obviously, account for your own conscience, in a regular club or pub, that would be a little embarrassing, but you seem to think he's leaving Parliament. It's not very masculine, but we can see that this is how it's gonna end. However, if, at the end of the day, you will obviously ask for a word, since you will not leave without responding to what your boss has said, please answer - I would like to know your personal opinion - that the management of monetary policy consumed approximately HUF 35 billion of public money last year, in this connection we mentioned that about 60 percent of the expenditure is personal expenditure. Here we raised the question of how many people, how many leaders you have with you, 3 million or even more, or over 5 million. These are data that we would like to see and have the right to see. I'm interested in what you think is the reason, so what is the performance segment that justifies the presence of such high-profile wages in your case? Obviously, we do not ask for this by name and person for performance or job, but I would be very interested to know what the outstanding performance is, which justifies this whole process system. I very much hope that it is not the exchange of currency and the profit realised from it, as you know very well that it has taken away the money of innocent Hungarian people, the Hungarian people who were robbed by the financial system, in a totally unjustified way. Thank you for your attention. [[János Volner applauds.]]
u2017-10-18-50	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Sándor Burány.
u2017-10-18-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Vice President, Dear House, This debate accurately reflects the situation, more precisely the lack of debate, because, in the last few hours, opposition representatives have been quite active, on the other hand, pro-government representatives have proved very passive and have shown their absence rather than their presence. I tell you honestly that this is understandable; it is understandable, because apparently also the representative of the government, who is not in the room, is true, according to the house rules, this is not mandatory in this case, but it is fitting, and the vast majority of government representatives are simply ashamed of what the National Bank of Hungary and its leader are doing - and this can be understood. It's tragic that you should be ashamed of that, but in a sense, humanly, at least, you can understand it. What's this really about? If we look at the professional part, not as part of the scandals, but as part of the professional part, then in fact I have to tell you that György Matolcsy, at the head of the Hungarian National Bank, was basically where he left off as a minister, and one of the key elements of this economic policy was the weakening of the forint. He supported this as a minister, and then, as President of the Hungarian National Bank, also supported this process. This forint weakening has dramatic consequences. Moreover, if we add that the government does not seem to want to adopt the euro in a foreseeable time, then the objective is absolutely clear. While the introduction of the euro would mean a kind of financial stability for the country, while the introduction of the euro would mean that we too belong to the club that becomes the core of the Union in a two-speed European Union, while weakening the exchange rate of the forint is in a much more important interest for you than for Hungary to join a much more predictable and stable euro zone in times of stable and financial crises. True, then they couldn't play tricks, they couldn't play with the exchange rate, which seems to be exactly what they were meant to do. As I mentioned earlier, you have drastically weakened the forint compared to the 2010 government change. This forint weakening is undoubtedly useful for an economic sector, for export-oriented companies, but everyone who uses imported products, the domestic consumers, the convenience stores, and the large majority of Hungarian society, in turn, are injuring this process, and the biggest damage to this process is a wide range of foreign exchange lenders. What you have achieved with this policy is that millions of people's situation has become hopeless, and as a by-product of this policy, the Hungarian National Bank has made a profit. Because this is a fist rule in monetary policy, that when the national currency is strengthened, the central bank is losing money; when the national currency weakens, as the forint has weakened in recent years, the central bank is profitable. However, this was the price of this profit: the loss of foreign exchange lenders and the loss of the part of domestic consumers using imports. Let's see what you've used this profit for, by the way. From the very beginning, an amazing series of scandals started, when all I could do was quote the word "speak" - to know that from these massive billions of profits, you have started to spend an unprecedented amount of money in the Hungarian National Bank. They started buying castles, and then they started creating various foundations to rescue and exclude public money from the scope of legal control. In the meantime, even illicit funding has been implemented, as it is quite clear that when public bonds are purchased through foundations from central bank money, this is the illicit financing of the budget. Of course, they say that if they buy bonds not directly from the Treasury or from the issuer, but in the so-called secondary market, this may still fit into the rules of the game, but on the one hand, the European Central Bank has concerns that this may not fit into the rules of the game, or you have been exposed, because the documents sued by the MSZP clearly show that, by the way, the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank have bought public bonds directly from the issuer for serious billions and financed the budget. This is, let us say, an irregular farming; but the extent to which public money was wasted at the foundations is unprecedented, and there is only one thing more outrageous: when relatives, friends, acquaintances, lovers, relatives, and so on and so forth. If Parliament were a comedy theater, then stand up comedy would have simply gone the other day to György Matolcsy's answer in the hour of instant questions and answers, when he declared that he actually had 7.5 billion relatives personally. Many humorous solutions have come to this, but I can say briefly that fortunately, one has friends; as they say, God makes up for it in exchange for relatives, because this kind of kinship with György Matolcsy is of rather dubious value to all of us. But that's quite simply not an answer. It is not an answer because it may still not be appropriate for the Hungarian parliament to bring in the genre of stand up comedy, and it is still not appropriate to say stupidities. It's quite simply a joke when a person chooses his own girlfriend; when a person employs the mother of his own girlfriend; when a person offers different preferential loans to his own relatives; when his own relatives receive various greasy state contracts. There's no way to get rid of this by saying that everyone on Earth is actually related to us. Quite simply, what is happening in the National Bank of Hungary is a scandal. The financial basis for this scandal was created by weakening the forint, and its use is a minimum waste of money, but its waste with relatives raises the category of unfaithful treatment and abuse of power. At the moment, the independence of the Hungarian National Bank is strictly preserved. These laws have been created throughout Europe, which is why the Hungarian National Bank and all central banks in Europe are in force, so that they can design and implement their monetary policy independently of the current power and policy, independently, according to their best professional and financial knowledge. [[12.50]] You are abusing this independence. They abuse themselves, and under the aegis of central bank independence, they use public funds for their own acquaintances, friends, relatives, and family members. This is quite simply unprecedented. And while I have already said a few words about central bank independence, it is also unprecedented in Europe that the president of a central bank publicly classifys the activities of a political party. I can't do that, dear György Matolcsy, that, by the way, he takes account of independence and enjoys it as the President of the Central Bank, but he believes that he should be involved in the affairs of the Hungarian parties and qualify them. This is quite simply unprecedented. To sum up, your monetary policy weakened the forint and the profits that the Hungarian National Bank could have put in its pocket in exchange for the forint weakening, unfortunately some of the friends actually put in their pockets, and this is unprecedented and scandalous. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-10-18-52	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman László Varga.
u2017-10-18-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Vice President, Ladies and gentlemen, There's been a debate going on for several hours, and it's hard to call it a debate. In any case, is it right that, in the context of the MNB's business report and its report, opposition representatives are trying to convey the opinion of the masses of voters here in Parliament towards the management of the central bank? I think it's right. I think it is right, because this is an opportunity to hold a debate, to change the phenomena that upset public opinion, and to create a situation so that there will never again be a central bank leadership in this country that does such things that are outrageous to the public. Obviously, it is better to have such a debate, to hold the debate of such a report, if the MPs speak with similar intensity, or at least if not by György Matolcsy personally, at least we will get answers from his vice-president, but this is not happening. Obviously, it doesn't happen because it doesn't stand up for what the central bank does. You find the events of the past years to be runaway, unprotected, unsatisfying. Why is that indefensible? It's because obviously I've been told by the people in front of me that the central bank is doing unsuitable things out of its foreign exchange profits. He does things that are inconvenient, because this exchange rate gain is due to the fact that he was a conscious policy to weaken the forint. This results in the profits of the central bank, while respecting the independence of the central bank, but I have to say that when it is profitable, it can do a variety of things. I'll give you three viable alternatives to the management of the central bank in a situation like this, which has evolved. On the one hand, he could have helped foreign exchange creditors. Hundreds of thousands of Hungarians are affected by foreign exchange loans and their prognosis, an unfunded debt affects many Hungarian families. Their problems were caused by the weakening of the forint, which is due to the year of Fidesz's governance, and is linked to György Matolcsy's activities, partly as Minister of the National Economy and partly as President of the Central Bank. In fact, helping foreign exchange lenders would have been an important goal, at least in part, to address a problem that you have caused. But I'll tell you another thing you could've done out of the profits, you could've paid it into the budget. This is an opportunity open to you. This could have been decided by the management of the central bank, because when the central bank is losing money, the budget pays in, and obviously, when the central bank is profitable because of the masses of people you crippled, the minimum would be to fund Community targets from such profits; some will be mentioned later. More precisely, they do not fund, but they pay it into the budget, and here we can all, in the Hungarian Parliament, decide what community goals it serves. Thirdly, they could have made a profit margin out of this. They did so in part, but otherwise they could have been a burden to the whole - and would obviously have served the purposes of the future and, if necessary, served the country's interests during a more difficult economic period. I'll tell you some community goals that could have been financed if they had paid the profits into the budget. Before 2010, the minimum wage was exempt. Since 2010, the government led by Fidesz has taxed the minimum wage. Today, we still have 15 percent tax. The smallest wages are therefore subject to the same tax as the largest wages. I think that a tax-free minimum wage in this country would be a great help to the lowest earners. By the way, it's on time. The heating is the most expensive for those living in the most difficult line, so those who heat with firewood are slowly doubling the price of firewood over three years, yet the 5% firewood tax, the reduced firewood VAT, has not been introduced, as this could help a lot of people. I'll tell you another goal that hasn't been realized in years, even though it would help people in the toughest line: the VAT rate for basic foods should be 5 percent; we have repeatedly suggested this. Moreover, Europe's peak costs 27 percent VAT on basic foods. But the support of the state - I stress: state - education and health system could also be a goal that, if paid into the budget as a profit, the Parliament could support. Instead, what did they do? In the face of central bank independence, I'd just like to say a few numbers. The Pallas Athena Foundations were paid approximately 250 billion forints, that's all they regrouped. This is what he said in Lajos Kósa's famous statement that he lost his public money figure of 250 billion forints - amazing, unsettling! And that's what the scandals are about, to hear from each other, how these foundations serve inconclusive purposes, how they serve the interests of the Urizing Fidesz elite, the salaries of relatives, friends, and other gentlemanly mischiefs. 26 billion funds involved real estate purchases, and, as has been said, the wage mass spent on the salaries of managers has increased by seven times during the period of President György Matolcsy. So this is the unsatisfying result that you, under the leadership of the central bank, can see. That's what public opinion is facing. And if that's what public opinion is facing, then that's what politics has to do with. There's work to be done by the public figures. Not only here in the Parliament, when we discuss this report once a year, I think, but indeed, the opposition representatives of Parliament have a job to do with immediate questions, and in the context of press conferences and other events, opposition representatives have a job to do. The fact that this debate has not become intense and that the pro-government politicians have not joined, and neither have you, Mr Vice-President György Matolcsy, fled, I see this as proof that they are fleeing from these problems, they feel that they are unsatisfying, they feel that this is unbearable in front of the people, and it is untenable, and it obviously raises the suspicion of disloyal treatment in a democratically functioning country. It's an outrageous thing. I would therefore like to say that it would have been good if Mr Vice-President had at least pretended to have some way of answering the questions that have been raised; I see that he has not taken very good notes in this regard, let alone entered into the debate. But one thing is for sure: after such uncompromising years, our goal is not only to replace the government, but also to bring justice to those who have been granted it, so I think that with the power that we will fight for the change of government with the members of the democratic opposition in the spring of 2018, we will also fight - this is the message we send to all Hungarian voters - so that we will never again have such uncomprehensible leadership of the Hungarian central bank. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-10-18-54	Thank you. I now give the floor to notary Nándor Gúr.
u2017-10-18-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is a shame what Matolcsy is doing: that storming out, leaving Parliament, yes, my fellow Member, is a shame. What you're doing is no less shameful, Mr. Vice President. [[István Hollik: The Simor was the shame!]] That he stayed here, that he was ordered here, that he sat on the chair, that he refused to take part in the debate, that he refused to answer, that he refused to argue; that he would end up - prognosticating - and then at the end he would tell his own intelligence. [[13.00]] You know, no one wants to see that now. There should have been room for debate; what you were doing, that you would say something in the end, that's not much. What Matolcsy is doing is absolutely nothing that he is not even present in relation to his own hearing on the affairs of the Hungarian National Bank. And that's shameful, like I said before. My colleague, Mr Varga, mentioned that he is losing the public money of HUF 260 billion - free after Kósa. About 10 percent of this is used in the purchase of various properties, castles, mansions, many others, and then they are sold, profit or loss. What are you doing? What is the task of the Hungarian National Bank? Is the self-use of the resources derived from the exchange rate gains a self-use, according to your own ideas? Or is it about taking measures for the benefit of people? Well, I can see they're not doing this second one. I'm picking up a lot of moves from the first point of view. In my previous comment, I mentioned the issue of wages. I'm gonna go back to it one more time just to make it clear and clear. Do you know when, in five years' time, the monetary council can be booked a 700-percent increase in the amount of goods that can be acquired, while, say, people working in the lowest income range receive less money in their hands, or, say, 10 percent more than seven years ago, how can they put these two things together? When you hire your society every month, do you not think about these questions, that there, at the other end, there, in the lowest income band, in the lower decylis? [[Gábor Bányai intervenes.]] Don't you think? ! I'm not thinking about it. I'm doing it for her. [[Gábor Bányai: Sure!]] I'll do what I have to do, fellow Member, against you. We have submitted a multitude of proposals, a multitude of draft parliamentary resolutions, in order to make this change, in order to ensure that income obtained in the lowest band increases in a moderate manner. He's got deaf ears in your case. So let's not get into that, because it doesn't end well for my fellow Member from Banya. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] But I could also say that it's a scandalous financial use, money-shopping that characterizes the MNB foundations. Not all roads need to lead us to Ripper, but we can still draw such a path in this regard. Butcher and his business partner built things around the MNB's foundations. This is Magyar Építő Zrt., if I remember the name of the company correctly. In my memory, 3600 million forints - I say 3600 million forints! - the one you won in public procurement recently in the Buda Castle for the renovation of the property under the number 21 of Úri Street. This is where the Pallas Athena would go, the foundation would have a doctoral school, at least as far as I know. Just in this particular case, what kind of public procurement was this thing about? Again, if I remember correctly - and I think I remember correctly - he appeared as a single starter. This company has already received a lot of money from the Matolcsys, your foundations. Magyar Építő Zrt. Between 2014-16 he received HUF 3700 million as a commission from the foundations. This is by far the company that made the most of the money, thanks to the MNB, so to speak, from the actions and spending of its foundations so far, I would say, in a sense, from the invisible spending of funds. Following the order received by Magyar Építő Zrt., I looked at the number of companies who had received orders. With regard to many, but the nine companies after that, in the first ten companies, the situation is that the nine companies after that will receive a total of half the commission against Magyar Építő Zrt. I'm sure there are coincidences, of course, I've said that once today about another case. There are coincidences, only they're this big! They are not even within the framework of the Hungarian National Bank led by Matolcsy. I will not repeat the questions that my fellow Members have asked from the zeroing of the state's gold stock through many other things, because I do not want to go into repetitions, and now I do not even care about your answer, because you refused to participate in the debate. But some of the other questions that have been said less today in the House walls, I would ask, not to you, Mr. Vice President. Just in order to make things more contemporary for the record, and then others will answer, you don't have to. You should join your president. Looks like he's starting to scrub the level he stands for. You know, in the scandalous spending of the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank, which we had to face, it would be nice to have an answer to the question of, say, whether it is okay with the type of assignments that the Grand and Trócsányi Law Office receives. Is that okay? I don't think so. So actually, when you think about the fact that here, the minister sitting in the walls of Parliament and his partner's company are getting orders from the Hungarian National Bank, it's kind of repulsive to me. Or Market Zrt. Architectural works - why Market Zrt.? - or the aforementioned Magyar Építő Zrt. - Why? Or is it all right that the Origo Group has been affected, my colleague Anita Heringes has already spoken about it, but I would add that Ádám Matolcsy has become CEO of Origo since 1 October, with István Kry quitting, or we could say that he is paired with his act of charity. I don't know what this story cost, well, a lot of money, I guess. Is that okay? Or what concerns the extradition of Matolcsy's own book: it could be asked what the revenue looks like, who is burdened by the release, where the revenue is. Is it okay to be in the interests of either the Eiffel Palace, the castles, the palaces, or the sale of real estate? Is it okay that 66 out of 112 contracts have been subject to a public procurement fine and who has borne these fines? I think the Hungarian state, therefore, is the Hungarian people, and I am not sure that they should have stood up to them. Is it okay that, according to the European Central Bank, the foundations have implemented illicit monetary funding by buying government bonds? The Hungarian state is practically loaned on its own. After the news, there was practically a massive sale. According to my knowledge, the foundations sold securities worth HUF 83 billion and were released from securities. I could also ask how the director of the Hungarian National Bank was able to meet nine other orders in addition to his mandate. But other political actors may be involved, who have not filled nine or ten mandates, but rather, say, seven, three foundations, three supervisory committees and one curatorium. [[13.10]] I could also ask how they could not only fulfill and carry out their duties, but for how much they did so. Or, as the news sources have said earlier, that there is a reasonable suspicion that the records of the central bank foundations have been manipulated, the signatures have practically been copied as an image, and that is wrong, because Matolcsy is not there as the head of the central bank, but perhaps as a secretary, or I do not know exactly how it was formulated. What does the foundation look like in this regard? Is the suspicion really justified? We could ask you a lot of other questions about, say, the cousins who bought the Pécs brewery. And why them? Then, interestingly, the official beer supplier of the water world became, perhaps not surprisingly, again, this very brewery by chance. Why? Why them? Just coincidences again? The collusion of coincidences? What does this look like? Or the bank of cousins will ensure that Flórian Farkas' driver - he understands what I'm saying, doesn't he, Flórian Farkas' driver - buys a castle at the XII. in the district. Do you really think that's okay? Do you think everyone's stupid? ! Not here in the walls of Parliament, is it not, in general, people are thought to be stupid? [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: No, we don't.]] You think everyone's gonna swallow what you're doing in this regard? The Hungarian National Bank will spend a billion and a half forints on various advertising campaigns. For whose sake, for whose benefit? I could answer it, but that is not my goal, but to wake up your thinking a little bit, Mr Vice President, if Matolcsy has refused to sit here in this Parliamentary debate, then wake it up in it, if it is not the day here today, but in their private conversations, that they have something to look back on, there is something to be ashamed of, and there is something to change in the short time that they are at the head of the Hungarian National Bank. Ádám Matolcsy - we are talking about György Matolcsy's son - wins nearly half a billion forints of money and support for his furniture industries. I'm sure there is, so why would he be excluded? But how many were excluded? Is that right? Is that all right, Mr. Vice President? To conclude, I would like to say a few more thoughts. You know, within the framework of the Hungarian National Bank, in addition to the large salaries due to employees, you know, a monthly salary of HUF 5 million to Matolcsy, or even the members of the Supervisory Board will pocket HUF 3 million or HUF 3.5 million, or Péter Polt's wife will pay HUF 4 million and HUF 950 thousand, so, in addition to these payments, there will be a reduced loan - quoted in quotes - in the order of up to HUF tens of millions. Is there any moral way you can settle this on your own? While there are many people in this country, there are hundreds of thousands of people in this country. Can you morally sort this out on your own? [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Sure!]] I guess I can see him smiling on his face. Yeah, he can place it. But you can also place your friend Matolcsy's money on how to get, let's say, more than HUF 30 million in cash for the purchase of a property - I'm talking about buying a flat in Naphegy. Is that okay? Is that okay? I'm sure you do. I can see it on your face. It is either that they buy wool carpets for more than HUF 23 million under the Matolcsy Foundations; or that they spend 70 million forints on a six-piece collection of furniture. And then I could go on and ask you a hundred more questions like that. I do not ask for your answer, I do not ask, if you have refused and are able to take part in the debate, then do not answer me. I only raised these because I wanted to give you a picture of what you're doing, how you're taking advantage of people, the way you've used people from foreign exchange credentials to a lot of other things that they've done for themselves over the past few years. It's shameful, it's shameful, it's unacceptable! [[Peter Cseresnyés intervenes.]] Please don't answer these questions to me. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-10-18-56	Welcome. There was a bit of hope, but then, for two minutes, Congressman István Hollik, representative of KDNP, came forward. Here you go.
u2017-10-18-57	Thank you, Mr. President. I only spent two minutes trying to get that hope to go away for two minutes. So, what I wanted to say, in summing up this debate, is that I see that the opposition representatives have put themselves before a very difficult task, they came here today to explain to each other and to the Hungarian people that the fact that the Hungarian National Bank maintained price stability in Hungary and ensured that inflation was 0.4 per cent in 2016 is wrong. You came here with the aim of proving that by 2016 the interest payment obligation on public debt decreased by HUF 500 billion compared to 2013 is bad. What you were trying to say was that in 2016, the National Bank had HUF 50 billion in dividends in the budget and was able to put HUF 50 billion in the profit reserve, which was wrong. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You weren't here?]] In fact, to quote my fellow Member, László Szakács, the Hungarian people must be afraid of this. My bad news for you is that in this task, to prove all this, you failed, you failed. However, there are two things you have managed to do in this debate: not talk about the MNB's accounts for 2016 and personalize in a subpar style that embarrasses the tabloid media. Congratulations on that. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-18-58	Dear Parliament, Before I give the floor to opposition representatives for two minutes, on your behalf, I welcome the students of the National University of Public Service, and I am pleased that you are here and are watching our work. Good afternoon. Now, after that, Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik, in two minutes!
u2017-10-18-59	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to address my fellow Member Hollik to the fact that you will fall into this great face, this arrogance, this large vest, this insufferable style. We have been here since 9:00, and we have asked very specific questions about the operation of the MNB in 2016. [[István Hollik: You do, but...]] The president of the MNB has fled. You have refused to give meaningful answers to any point of view. The vice president of the MNB left me laughing, grinning, talking to others, but once he didn't dare stand up like a man, grab that microphone and give a specific answer to a specific question. So don't lecture us here, because these answers aren't for us, they're for the voters behind us, and the voters behind us won't forget this style. That's what you're gonna fall for, your own nose is gonna fall into this style. You should answer where you have disposed of Hungary's gold reserve to zero; you should answer how the wife and daughter of the Attorney General at the National Bank of Hungary can end up for millions and hundreds of thousands of salaries. Don't smile, Mr. Vice President, because it's not that funny. It's not funny at all, because you're playing with public money, not the profits of your own business. And they're playing with the money of people with foreign currency loans they've been looting. And you have the nerve not to give me answers, not to argue? ! You're gonna stick something in here in a closet? Does the congressman have the nerve to lecture anyone? Let there be a substantive debate, answer any substantive points. [[István Hollik: Please respond!]] We've asked these questions with the utmost respect, and look at the class, we've been here since 9:00. Do they really respect the Hungarian parliament and the voters behind us that much? It's a shame what you're doing. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-10-18-60	Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP, in two minutes!
u2017-10-18-61	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressman Hollik, I'm sorry - I'm joining Dániel Z. Carpathian - don't lecture me. The President of the Hungarian National Bank came here this morning and did not report on 2016 [[István Hollik: That's not what you're talking about!]] He didn't comply with his legal obligation, and then he went out of the room and left. You weren't talking about the 16th year. I'm sorry, Congressman. And the other is when he talks about tabloid media, the style in which you're providing the news to the tabloid media that's going on at the National Bank. [[13.20]] We've listed what's happened in the last few years. I beg you, there was a law in this House in 2014. You know what that law was about? That it is a Member, which is entirely legitimate, we can say that it is legitimate that the Member in the Hungarian Parliament should not employ his own relative. Doesn't that apply to the Hungarian National Bank? His whole operation is about how they can get their own kin to public money. That's what the operation of the Hungarian National Bank is about, and you're talking about scandal? Yes, it's scandalous. What is happening in the Hungarian National Bank and in the region of its house is scandalous. Oh, you don't like to mention the Attorney General, his wife, Matolcsy's son, Matolcsy's lover, and his ex-wife, who knows who else in this country? ! Yes, we don't like it either, and Hungarian citizens don't like it either. You're saying the National Bank put 50 billion forints in the budget? The question is, what did you spend it on? There are priorities. When my fellow Member talks about who received 0.9 percent credit for buying a flat, Hungarian citizens and Hungarian families did not, but relatives, mates and fideszes did. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-10-18-62	Dear Parliament, It is my duty to ask if anyone still wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the joint general debate is closed. The final words of the author of the report or of the proposal for a decision may now take place. First, I would like to ask Vice-President Martin Nagy if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] You have the floor. Here you go.
u2017-10-18-63	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Members, I'll try to answer a few things. First of all, I would like to stress that I do not wish to respond to the personal attacks on President Matolcsy, which he did in his speech, and I think I would like to say nothing more. I've heard a lot of criticisms about the National Bank of Hungary. Don't think I don't care. I am interested, and I was quite desperate to hear this, because there was a very distorted, twisted thing going on, and I also heard comments based on non-facts. I'm trying to fix some of them. I believe that in each case the National Bank has responded in writing, orally, to the proposals, to your requests, to your requests, or to the media's request, so the Central Bank has always acted in a transparent manner, has never listened to or responded to any questions. I would like to stress that when you question the success of the central bank's operation, I can say that what matters to the central bank management is that the Economic Commission finds its operation in order, that the SAO finds its operation in order, and, most importantly, one of the most important things is that the market thinks that the central bank really works well. And if we ask the market today, whether it is the Hungarian market or London or New York, the investors there do find the central bank functioning in order, and if they read the valuation of any investment bank from the central bank - let me mention Morgan Stanley - they consider the Hungarian central bank to be one of the most creative central banks in Eastern Central Europe and even in Europe. So I think that's what's important in this case. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that György Matolcsy has taken over the management of the central bank since March 2013, and then the central bank has completely changed. I know, I've been working at the Central Bank for 15 years, and I think that the leadership has completely changed, and I think that he chose the team that could achieve these successes, and I'm a member of this team, and I'm proud to be part of this team. The fact that this team was selected, he was able to do it. Let me answer a few specific things. First of all, what happens to the results of the central bank. I would like to stress that the use of the results of the central bank is regulated by the Central Bank Act. This guarantees its financial independence to the central bank and is fully in line with the European Central Bank's directives, which was approved by Parliament. I would also like to stress that we have heard a lot of things today that I do not know how many ways he used it and spent it. That's not what the central bank is supposed to do, that's what the budget is supposed to do. So if you think the government has to do that, you're targeting the government, I don't think that's the central bank's job. [[Attila Móring József is replaced by Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat.]] It is the job of the central bank to manage properly, to conduct a proper monetary policy, and I do believe that a good monetary policy is an effective central bank, and that it does work with a positive profit. At the same time, the central bank operates conservatively, that is, if it does not pay its profits as dividends - forints 50 billion in 2016 - if it puts this in a profit reserve, it all does so because in the future there can be bad years, and these risks must be prepared. So I understand that there are questions, you can spend that much money and so much money here. The problem used to be that the central bank was negative, so there was a loss, and now they should be happy that the central bank is running with positive results, doesn't ask for money from the budget, but it's already here to figure out what to spend it for. Please leave this decision and prudent behaviour to the central bank. Fame, I think I already told you. The market matters, and every time I go to London and talk to investors, I think the market recognises the functioning and creativity of the central bank. Distribution of the result: the result is determined not only by the exchange rate result, but also by the interest rate result, which has been mentioned very little. I'm asking you to note that the MNB's interest rate results are now positive, so the net interest rate results are plus. This year you can reach up to 10 billion, while in 2013 it was minus 150 billion. So, the fact that interest rates have been down and not only short, but long interest rates have been down is also helping public finances in their interest expenditure on the one hand - since 2013 and until the end of 2016 we are talking about a total of 1000 billion, and if I include this year, we are talking about 1600 billion - but there is also another effect that the MNB has saved 150 billion in its interest rate results, and if they are looking for where the result from the exchange of foreign currency loans is, there is in the profit reserve. It's not missing, it's in the profit and loss reserve. I would also like to record, I don't know, that one of the Members said that the National Bank operates illegally: the MNB has always complied with the laws, and look at the purpose of the MNB. Price stability: we have inflation below 3 per cent, we can reach 3 per cent by mid-2019. I think the central bank is working successfully in this. Financial stability: Let's look at our banking system. This is a capitalised banking system where the banking system helps the economy. In recent years, there has been a credit turnaround in the retail and corporate credit market. Third, support for the government's economic policy. Please, in all three, the central bank, I think it's okay, so whether it works legally or not, this, please don't question it. The fourth: someone, a congresswoman or a gentleman - I'm sorry, I don't remember - said that we don't work for people. Please, we work for the people. I would like to remind everyone that in the course of the settlement, in the drafting of fair banking or ethical banking laws and in the conversion of foreign exchange loans - these three pillars were the release of foreign currency loans - the central bank was very actively involved, and the 1000 billion transfers that were made during the conversion of customers' accounts and conversions, in which the central bank was very active with the government, contributing to the banking system. The fact that the conversion takes place on a market basis and takes place at a market rate is said by the Curia, so let's not come up with how we do it. There was a legal background during the conversion, the Curia stated that the conversion takes place at the market rate. The next item is the question of the victims. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, all - I would put it this way - victims in a European country... - whether it is the National Deposit Insurance Fund, this bank, or the brokerage companies, or the injury fund, there is a safety net. [[13.30]] This safety net, please, is operated by the members of the market, in the case of OBA, by the banking system, in the case of BEVA, by the brokerage companies. The market must guarantee that if one of its members cheats, lies and damages customers, there is a collective responsibility for that, and the money paid into this fund will be compensated. That's how it works everywhere. That's how it works everywhere. It's more damaging to touch this thing, because it's moral... [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: You don't have that!]] So that's what they call a moral hazard. In this case, problems arise, because it is important for the client to see an investment with a higher return than a sovereign debt, and to ask whether this is not more risky and what that risk is. Risks can't be taken unscrupulously. So once again, when we talk about victims, we look at this safety net, which is in line with European standards, and even better, because the foundation of victims for Quaestorists has been established. [[Dr. László Cook intervenes.]] So it's about running this thing. I think that the Hungarian state is operating this very well today. Well, then I would also like to respond to the fact that I took credit from the central bank, and I would like to tell you that. A little detour here in a lot of professional circles. I've been working at the Central Bank since 2002. This isn't my first central bank loan. At the time of Járai, yes, I had already taken out a loan, a house loan, which was free of interest. I would like to stress that during the Járai period, there was an interest-free loan, as there has been such a credit facility in the central bank over the past 50 years with different parameters. At the time of Jarai, once again, it was an interest-free loan. I was a career starter, I started at the lowest level in the central bank, I didn't have any savings, I'm from a poor family, I'm from a rural family. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Poor!]] It happens, and you do want to buy yourself a studio. That's when I bought myself a studio and paid this loan for 10 years. And then it happened in 2015, and I gave my head to start a family, and the kid came along, and I had to buy another apartment, and I didn't have any savings, because my salary didn't go up. Remember, back then, in 14-15, I didn't make $4.5 million, because that was the $2 million cap. I took out a loan, a four-year loan, and I'll pay you back. So why I take the loan: I take it because I don't have any savings, and a lot of people are wearing the same shoes inside the central bank. And why we're taking out a central bank loan, I'd like to ask you: do you think it would be better for a vice president to take the loan from a bank, a bank he's overseeing, and does it regulate from the central bank? Would it be better if you picked it up from a bank morally? I'll tell you honestly, if we had done this, you would be questioning that we would have done the right thing, because what do you think if we had taken the loan from a bank, then the question arises: then there is a legal relationship and an addiction relationship with a bank, which is forbidden. It's forbidden! It's forbidden in the central bank world. So it is morally true that there is such a credit facility in the central bank, that I will protect it, that I have protected it in the past, and that I will protect it in the future. Thank you. So the next thing you know, it's a matter of pay. [[Anita Beringes: The voters can be proud!]] Why they work so hard at the central bank and why the wages are so big. I'd like to answer that, too. You are very distorted, and I know that there are low-wage and high-wage professions in the labour market, and there are also regional differences. But, please, what does this have to do with central bank wages? What does it have to do with central bank wages? [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Very much!]] Central bank wages have to do with commercial bank wages. If the professionals aren't paid, the central bank staff will leave. There is already such fluctuations today, and banks are hunting down the central banks, and they are taking it away from us because the banks cannot find a suitable professional, they too have a lack of labour, and they promise to make these payments. [[Anita Herring: And the doctors?]] In order for the central bank to function in an appropriate professional capacity, wages must be adjusted to commercial bank wages. [[Anita Herring: That's not the case with doctors!]] And this is... this is our profession. I don't know what the doctors have. It's our business, and that's what we do in this business. If I look at the amount of central bank payments in an international comparison, it can be compared with the Czech Republic or the Baltic. Please look at the central bank payments like this, and don't try to turn this thing around, because I think it's beneath the belt. Okay? [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Why didn't he speak? We could have responded!]] Thank you very much. Next thing you know, it's a fundraiser. In the foundation's operation, it can be said that the foundation has preserved the assets it has entrusted, and even increased by 3 billion to 267. He spent 6 billion on education and education in over 1,200 programmes. As far as government bonds are concerned, and in accordance with the ECB's Directive, it sells these government bonds. I think we're doing just fine here. There was a question about the gold reserve. [[Dr. László Kács: Have you settled the foundation with this much?]] In the case of the gold reserve, I would like to stress that since 1992 the central bank has had 3 tonnes. It fell from 60 tonnes in 1992, and since then it has been 3 tonnes. It's 3 tons, not 0, 3 tons. So, please, when you say the central bank doesn't have gold, it does have gold, and it's the same since 1992. On this issue, the investment strategy of the central bank has not changed. Foreign reserve. Please, this is a long professional debate, so let me mention it in a few sentences. If the level of foreign reserves is high in that country, it means that the country is vulnerable, as there is a great deal of security money to be raised in that central bank. [[Nándor Gúr will be replaced in the notary seat by Dezső Believing.]] If this foreign reserves are low and comply with the Guidotti rule, it means that the country is less vulnerable. So when you say that the foreign reserves are gone, you should be happy because it means that the country is less vulnerable and that there is no longer a need to hold very high foreign reserves. NHP. In the case of NHP, I will not begin to tell you how many thousands of companies NHP has given credit and growth in recent years, and how the central bank has contributed to this. All I can tell you is that the NHP has dealt with a temporary problem, the central bank has had to intervene, but if it is in the market for a long time, the banks will forget to lend on a market basis. It becomes a harmful institution to think that there's the central bank money, and then you can lend it to it. We introduced it in 13 and led it out at the beginning of 17. It was a very important step. However, it can be seen that after the exit banks went to market lending, they passed very easily, so the gradual exit was essentially successful, this exit was successful, and we were able to convert the banks to market lending. From this point on, we are talking about a cured SME credit market, we have essentially managed to avoid a credit collapse, and instead of a credit collapse, we have been able to turn this market into a credit growth. In the end, I would like to respond to monetary policy control. Please, this is not happening. In the functioning of the central bank, there is no anointed control body in any EU country with regard to the functioning of the core activity and monetary policy. We also have a reporting obligation to the ECB, and we have a reporting obligation. This guarantees the independence of the central bank. However, we are involved in professional debates, whether in professional articles, studies or conferences, but we believe that such a control body is not justified in our opinion. Thank you very much for the opportunity to respond. Thank you again, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-10-18-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to ask Mr Dénes Galambos, rapporteur for the Economic Committee, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Lajos Korózs: In short!]] Here you go.
u2017-10-18-65	Thank you for the call, Mr President. I was thinking of a two-minute comment, partly because my fellow Member, István Hollik, had preceded me and partly because I thought that the Vice-President, replacing the President, would speak in response to the questions raised. [[Anita Herring: But she didn't say anything!]] I believe that the right position that I am also representing is that the control function should be interpreted only in the way that the legislation allows, while maintaining what I have said in my speech as a keynote speaker and in my summary of the Committee on Economic Affairs. So we do not think in any way that the independence of the central bank will be overruled at a level that would be partly contrary to the law and partly contrary to European practice. What is very important is that it is necessary to give a realistic, calm and opinion on the activities of the central bank in the forums that allow us to express our opinion. [[13.40]] I am arguing with my fellow Member, Mr Volner, on the opinion that there is no appropriate forum in the Economic Committee. Ask me questions, ask me things to discuss. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Forget it!]] which he indicated. It's what I do at the Economic Committee's meeting, and we'll get the answers to that. It is obvious - and here I would like to continue what Mr Vice-President said - that central bank independence is the statute that does not allow the central bank's monetary policy to be involved, either by the Economic Committee or by any other body not responsible for it, with such an ugly Hungarianness. I would like to highlight the personal nature of the whole debate with a negative edge. We were talking about the central bank's finances, not about the issues that really affect the very important institutional system at the tabloid level, which we must protect unconditionally, so that it is a pillar of domestic monetary and economic policy. Any other forum may be available in respect of the management of foundations, in the competence of the bodies concerned, either a court or a prosecutor's office. It is clear that personal issues and personalities should never be confused with the fact that the central bank, as Mr Vice-President has indicated, and I agree, has fulfilled the economic policy expectations that society as a whole expects of it without a balance sheet and an exchange rate goal. In this sense, I would like the negative edge of today's debate not to be included in our almanach with such a edge, in addition to the few positive elements of the report. I think this is a vain hope, but I think that, on the basis of what has been said in my expos, I would like to ask you to accept the management of the central bank in the context of the resolution proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-10-18-66	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft legislation on the reduction of the social contribution tax and the amendment of the related legislation will follow until closure. The submission submitted by representatives of Mihály Varga and Péter Cseresnyés, Fidesz, T/177776. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman Péter Cseresnyés, one of the authors of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2017-10-18-67	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The government is committed to increasing employment and reducing the burden on employment. To achieve this, it has taken and will continue to take a number of measures. Of these, the tax on the employer, the reduction of the social contribution tax, is outstanding, which is also advocated by the bill before you. In recent years, tax policy has focused on reducing the tax and administrative burden on labour and businesses as well as on simplifying the tax system, which has been reflected in a number of measures. For example, in order to reduce the tax burden on businesses, simplified tax methods have been introduced, such as the specific tax on small companies, the so-called kata and the small corporate tax on large enterprises, i.e. the kiva. In addition, benefits from the employer's social contribution tax have been constantly increased in recent years. In November 2016, as a first step under the agreement between the government and the permanent consultation forum of the competition sphere, the minimum wage increased by 15 percent from 1 January 2017, the minimum wage by 25 percent, the minimum wage by guarantee, while the employer's tax decreased by 5 percentage points from 27 per cent to 22 per cent. Under the agreement, the minimum wage will increase by an additional 8 percent in 2018, while the minimum wage of the employer will increase by 12 percent, taking into account that the wage increase is expected to exceed 11 percent in the first nine months of 2017, by more than 0.5 percentage points, i.e. 2,5 percentage points. In other words, the favourable development of macroeconomic data allows employers and self-employed people to calculate a social contribution tax of 19.5 per cent from 1 January 2018. Thus, the government leaves no less than HUF 200 billion to businesses, with an additional tax reduction of 0.5 percentage points of more than HUF 40 billion. In addition, the tax burden for employers could be reduced by another 2-2 percentage points from 2019 for four years if real wages rose by 6 percent per year. As a result of the agreement, the Hungarian tax wedge will be reduced to a level similar to our regional competitors by 2018, and by 2022 the tax wedge will be lower than in the Czech Republic, Slovenia and Slovakia, according to our current information. In the case of benefits from the social contribution tax, such as the benefits of the employment protection action, the rate of benefits will also vary in line with the reduction of the tax rate. Thus, in the case of discounts granting a full exemption from the social contribution tax, employers can use a total discount of 19.5 per cent up to HUF 100 thousand gross, up to a higher ceiling for certain discounts, while in the case of the 50 per cent discount they can apply a discount of up to HUF 100 000 gross, so in the latter case the tax liability will be 9.75 per cent. Thus, the government continues to offer significant benefits to the employment of workers who are disadvantaged from the labour market point of view, such as young beginners, older, unskilled workers. It should also be mentioned that, in parallel with the reduction in the tax rate, the bill includes a reduction in the rate of 22 per cent of the health contribution in 2017 to 19,5 per cent, such as a further reduction in the tax burden on each defined benefit. The autonomous motion also amends the provisions of the Personal Income Tax Act in the light of the internal context of the tax system. As is known, if the payment of the social contribution tax or the current 22 per cent health contribution is an obligation for the individual himself and is not entitled to charge the cost, his income shall be established as 82 per cent of the income established. In the context of the reduction of these public burdens, from 2018, these individuals will have to determine their taxable income as 84 percent of the calculated income. In addition, the rules on the specific tax on small-tax enterprises are improved as the cash benefits used by the full-time taxpayer, e.g. g. ged, sickness benefit, are increased with unchanged tax liability. As a result of this, the supply fund will increase from HUF 90 thousand to HUF 94 400 for the payment of the HUF 50 thousand item tax, while from HUF 150 000 to HUF 158 400 for the payment of the higher item tax, which will further increase the benefit of this preferential tax method. In the context of the reduction of the rate of social contribution tax, the rules for a simplified public contribution are also amended, according to which the Echo charged to the paying agent is reduced from 20 per cent to 19,5 per cent. On the basis of what has been said above, it is clear that the reduction of the social contribution tax results in a number of positive changes for other tax groups, which is why I am asking for the support of honourable Members and the adoption of a separate motion. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-10-18-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr. András Tállai, State Secretary. Here. [[13.50]]
u2017-10-18-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The aim of the individual motion is to further reduce the employer's tax burden and thus promote employment growth and the development of the economy. The competitive sphere and the government's permanent consultative forum agreed last November to reduce the tax burden on employers in addition to a large increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. In this context, the social contribution tax paid by employers and self-employed workers has already been reduced by 5 percentage points from 27 percent to 22 percent by 2017. In addition, on the basis of the agreement, the government has promised a further reduction of 2 percentage points from 2018. The government will keep this promise and, thanks to the favourable development of macroeconomic data, it will be able to introduce a further reduction of half a percentage point. Based on the evolution of the data published by the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, it is expected that the average gross earnings in the competition sector will increase by 11 per cent in the first to third quarter of 2017 compared to the first and third quarter of 2016, thus meeting the condition for further tax reductions. With the adoption of the autonomous motion, the social contribution tax will be reduced from the current rate of 22 per cent to 19.5 per cent, leaving no less than HUF 200 billion in business, of which the additional reduction of half a percentage amounts to more than HUF 40 billion. In parallel with the reduction of the tax rate, the health contribution, the key of the echo in 2017 is reduced to 19.5 percent, e.g. the tax burden on individual defined benefits is further reduced. In addition, the rules on the specific tax on small-tax enterprises are also modified positively, as, under unchanged tax liability, the funds of the cash benefits used - ged and sick money - are increased. In the context of the reduction of the rate of social contribution tax, the simplified public contribution, the rules of the echo, are also amended, according to which the paying agent pays 19.5 per cent instead of the previous 20 per cent. It can also be seen from the foregoing that the reduction of the social contribution tax results in a number of positive changes in other tax types. It should also be noted that the government remains committed to reducing the level of labour taxation and is constantly examining the possibility of doing so, so that further reduction of employers' public burdens can be expected in the event of favourable economic indicators. Consequently, the Government supports the proposal and I ask that my fellow Members do the same. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-18-70	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to have keynote speeches. First, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr Dénes Galambos. Here you go.
u2017-10-18-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The bill before us is basically focused on what the Fidesz governments planned for themselves after 2010 and what they are implementing, and this is the direction of tax reduction. Every year the Hungarian people and the economic players experienced that the state was leaving more and more money with them. Over the last seven years, a number of taxes have been carried out and almost all taxes have been constantly reduced. We believe that wage increases and increases in competitiveness can only be achieved in cooperation with economic operators, workers and employers. This policy has led to success and, as a result of real wages now increasing, the competitiveness of companies can be further improved by means of a new tax reduction. This is what Mihály Varga and Péter Cseresnyés's own motion, the bill on the reduction of the social contribution tax and the amendment of the related laws, apply. Dear House, In recent years, the activity of the Hungarian labour market and the level of employment have increased significantly. Further economic growth can primarily be achieved by increasing the productivity level of work, which requires a high-quality, well-motivated workforce, in addition to improving technology development and work organisation. This must be done by the government in such a way as to enable productivity growth to continue the wage catch-up process that has started in recent years, so that the rise in wages also encourages businesses to improve productivity. On 24 November 2016, the members of the competition sphere and the Permanent Consultation Forum of the Government agreed on a multi-annual programme, bearing in mind the creation of predictable business conditions for economic operators. The signatories committed themselves to improving the competitiveness of the economy, increasing wages and at the same time reducing the burden on wages. Point 5 of the Agreement states that the social contribution tax paid by employers should be 19.5 per cent by a further reduction of half a percentage point from 1 January 2018 if, according to the data published by the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, the average gross earnings in the competitive sphere increase is 11 per cent in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the first three quarters of 2016. The rapporteur and State Secretary have also indicated these numbers, and I do not wish to repeat them in more detail. As early as 2016, the government reduced the rate of the social contribution tax previously referred to as employers' social contributions from 27 percent to 22 percent, from 1 January this year. If the growth rate of real wages is maintained, i.e. reaching 6 per cent annually, the rate of the employer's contribution will decrease by 2-2 percentage points from 2019 onwards, thereby further improving the competitiveness of domestic businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, Fidesz was and is in favour of tax reductions, and since 2010, governments have been on the same path. In recent years, as has already been said on the agenda, we have first made personal income tax one-track, then reduced its level, reduced corporate tax and a number of different smaller taxes. The bill before us helps to increase the competitiveness of domestic companies, and this reduction of 0.5 percentage points can also help to ensure that in the competitive sector the principle that the government has agreed and what it intends to enforce with employers in the medium term in the framework of cooperation is realised. For this reason, among other things, and in view of what I have said, I would ask my fellow Members to support the motion and to adopt the bill on the reduction of the social contribution tax. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-18-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2017-10-18-73	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Last November, the government decided to start reducing the employer's wage burden instead of employees, given that one of Hungary's largest workers is the tax burden and that we are the absolute number one in the OECD in the taxation of the minimum wage. Thus, the 27 percent socho key will be reduced to 11.5 percent in six years. In Hungarian: you are not dealing with reducing the tax burden on workers, but are starting to reduce the tax burden on employers. The news has recently been published that Viktor Orbán is asking for help to solve the labour shortage in Hungary. Then, honourable Members, something really doesn't work. It should also be said that when they talk about how average wages have increased in Hungary, the governing party constantly communicates how gross wages have increased, but does not talk about net wages. And he doesn't talk about the differences that have developed between the regions and the counties in Hungary. While the net average income in Budapest and Budapest is... - net, and the net is very important because it is in the employee's pocket, he can spend it, we are talking about 248 thousand forints, let's say, in Borsod County we are talking about 134 thousand forints of net earnings. But if I buy Hajdú-Bihar County, where I come from, we're not much better off there. You're sensing the difference, aren't you, honourable government representatives? [[14.00]] And if you look at how many hundreds of thousands of people have left this country to make a better living, because even though they say as a success propaganda how much wages have increased, we can report some pretty serious numbers. My fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, has repeatedly said today that we are talking about 600,000 people. But there are surveys that already say that these are very, very cosmetic numbers, because they can reach up to 800,000. [[To Peter Cseresnyés:]] Don't shake your head, Mr. Secretary, because it's true. I heard Zsuzsa Ferge this week from Mr Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, reacting to my speech before the agenda. When I was talking about poverty in Hungary, he gave me quotes from Zsuzsa Ferge in 2008, and I recommended the Ferge Zsuzsa studies in 2016 or 17 to him, what poverty indicators are in Hungary, and what situation we are in right now. It is precisely these studies that say that if you remain in government in 2018, another 1 million people will want to leave this country. Today we are talking about the fact that every second Hungarian youth under the age of 18 is planning to leave this country. More than 10 percent of young people preparing for higher education think that they should apply to higher education, not Hungary, but abroad. He doesn't even want to try it in Hungary anymore, but he targets abroad. But we can talk about the age group that should support this country, the middle-aged, the 35-40-45-year-olds, 30-35 percent think they should leave this country. Dear fellow Members, Then, I think it's a success, and we can't talk about the success of the government of the last eight years. But if we look at the birth records that you talk so nicely about your family policy, we haven't been able to make a breakthrough in this either. At the time of the crisis, 96,000 children were still able to be born in Hungary, and then - in 2011, they forget that in 2011 the low point was when the number of children in Hungary barely exceeded 88 thousand - compared to that, the situation improved a little bit. Here in Parliament came various state ministers, increased women's willingness to give birth, and what a breakthrough we have now, because we have managed to raise it to 93,000. Only then would I recommend another publication and the KSH be read. They are the grandchildren of the Ratkó era, which lasts from 73 to 77, this age group, which has now filled it, even born in 77 for 40 years this year, can no longer give birth. We're running out of time for this age group to give birth. The reason why this number,.77, is important is because after.77 the number of births of children in Hungary has decreased dramatically, and the number of women of childbearing age has decreased dramatically from now on. And it should also be said that today a very, very high percentage of women of childbearing age, this reaches 10 percent, is abroad, and every sixth Hungarian child is not born in Hungary, but abroad. Compared to this, when you talk about submitting a new tax reduction as an independent motion, we are not talking about how the burden of workers could be reduced. Of course, we can agree to reduce the burden of small entrepreneurs and Hungarian entrepreneurs in Hungary, because they need to be able to create jobs, but it is also very important to talk about how we can reduce the burden of workers, how we can better protect workers. Here, my fellow Member will certainly talk about the Code of Work, because here we can talk about it, and we must speak very seriously. Let's just say I only have one number: the wage taxes and contributions to the guaranteed minimum wage, for the HUF 161 thousand. The gross, I'm telling you, out of the gross HUF 161 thousand, the employee takes home HUF 107 065, because what is important is what he takes home, and what he wants to make a living or try to make a living from. The employer's obligation is HUF 37 835 and the employee's liability is HUF 53 935. Do you understand, Mr. Secretary? Employees are HUF 53 935 and employers are HUF 37 835. This, together, is 91,770 forints, which you collect as a state, which remains in the employee's pocket, 107,065. I think it is a very good indication of the direction it is moving towards the workers. We can say that in 2018, the employee's tax burden shifts from 21 per cent to 33.5 per cent, which represents a 50 per cent burden on the employer. I don't think that's okay. We would also like to see proposals where you are talking about it, and we think you are trying to figure out how to ensure a decent living, a decent salary for people, how to keep their promise in the next few months that you will create 1 million market-based jobs; not public work, Mr State Secretary, not public work, market-based jobs. And how are you trying to solve it, at least trying to find a way to attract home at least a few hundred thousand of those workers who have gone abroad, at least a few hundred thousand, so that the kind of labour shortage in Hungary that Viktor Orbán is now speaking out of his mouth at least once in a while? True, you won't admit it. And I would expect, of course, that they would make proposals, amendments that would also solve the problem of the kind of salary difference that has developed between certain regions and counties, so that it wouldn't happen that a person living in Eastern Hungary earns half as much for the same work he gets, let's say, in Budapest. So if we see that you're going to be dealing with this at some point, we're very happy to support that kind of law, we can't do that, Mr. Secretary. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-10-18-74	Thank you very much. It's time for the lead speaker of the Jobbik. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-10-18-75	Mr President, Dear House, Since we have been shouting about the need to reduce contributions for years, it would be very strange if Jobbik did not support proposals in the same direction. At the same time, we must say that the package that is in front of us is cosmetic, because, based on market signals, operators could really respond positively to a comprehensive reduction of at least 10 percentage points and, better, one step. After all, if we want to make investments, say, from liberated sources, obviously with a larger company, a larger medium-sized enterprise or large enterprise, or, where appropriate, with the interest of a multi-company, from which substantial investments can be made, not at all with a micro- or small enterprise. Therefore, in a much more flexible system, a greater reduction could be achieved. So, from a market point of view, this cosmetic, although in a good direction, can be said to be a cute gesture to be supported, but it is certainly negligible in terms of its market impact compared to what would be needed and what would be included in the budgetary margin. One of the flaws in the motion is that it does not contain any figures at all as to the budgetary implications of everything. Mr Tallai Secretary of State has already enriched us with so much that he has given us numbers. I gotta hand it to you, 'cause usually Fidesz State Secretarys don't say stuff like that. Now it's finally happened. We see that the half-percent discount is projected to be on a scale of 40 billion, as obviously this cannot be accurately estimated by HUF. Overall, they would like to guarantee a discount of 200 billion towards employers and employers. Here is the question of how much of this will come to Hungarian businesses. So to Hungarian small and medium-sized micro-enterprises, where appropriate, what will be the impact that becomes measurable. And we can see that we are also talking about micro-effects in this case. What has arisen on the labour front is, therefore, the cost of the amazing labour shortage is many times the cost of the cosmetic concession which, although to be supported and which lies before us, is negligible compared to the negative economic impact. To expect an increase in employment, we believe it would be a fool's errand. In recent years, Fidesz has been able to maintain the impression that a mass of active jobs is being created in Hungary by cosmetics and forgery of statistical data. On the other hand, even those socialists whose economic performance is very, very devastating in my opinion have not included, for example, student workers in the circle of those who are active workers as active taxpayers in Hungary. In the same way, there is a worker on the public work front who, if any, only takes a few hours of work a week, but the statistics count him as a full employee. So it's one of those people that this country will have measurable tax revenue for. And if we add to this that tens of thousands of Hungarians working abroad are included in the statistics in Hungary, we add them up, then we see that the difference of almost half a million people who appear as employees is not measured on the same page as those who take on tasks in an 8-hour classic workplace, in classical circumstances, and take on very serious difficulties. [[14.10]] So I would have preferred it if my opposition fellow Member had brought up demographic and demographic relations here, if our fellow Fidesz hadn't told us right away that he knew wrong, because the opposition representative didn't know wrong. Yes, the demographic issue is the most serious, and I must protect him in this. We should have genuine debates here on how to prevent this demographic winter, winter, disaster, because it is clear that, even in the current situation of labour shortages, the particular economy is hard to huff. What happens here if an even greater proportion of active age groups leave this country? As far as health professionals are concerned, when they are barely able to take care of on-calls, they have nurses working with various kfts, rotations and rotations, it seems that this system is creaking. So it would clearly be our job to face this situation honestly. It doesn't matter whether it is raised by a pro-government or opposition representative, and we can find solutions across governments, say, a housing program, let's say, incentives that make it easier for Hungarian people to stay in Hungary and take on a job here. I would add that this is also what Jobbik's Wage Union initiative aims at. Not only would he not want to delegate powers to Brussels, but he would strengthen Hungary against Brussels by keeping as many Hungarian workers as possible in Hungary. It is therefore also expected to be supported. But along the way, I must express my indignation that, if the demographic issue, which is our biggest problem, my fellow Members are trying to bludgeon it, they are holding on to the debate with jokes, while it is an amazing national draft. We should have proposals for this, and as long as the number of births living each year is below 100,000, no one in this country should be proud of any economic performance or any indicator. Even though it has become 1.43 out of 1,25, according to certain statements, I am very happy about this, and I would very much like it to improve further. But until the number of living births approaches the reproductive limit, there is no place to celebrate, nor can there be. In conclusion, we will therefore support this cosmetic facilitation, but we need systemic change and change. A much greater reduction in contributions, the economic impact of which is reflected in the bill, not only in the words of the Secretary of State of Tállai. And once the economic impact has been resolved, we must also be able to say, in the concept of reducing contributions, how we will be able to compensate for the lack of ten billion budgets from various social care systems, and what economic activity, what economic performance will be able to compensate for this deficit. This would be professional work, but more importantly, it would be a fair job. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-10-18-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There is no independent Member in the Chamber, no two-minute speeches have been made, so further speeches will be made. First, Congressman Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2017-10-18-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The draft law on the reduction of the social contribution tax, which is basically about a further reduction of the employer's burden. I do not dispute for a moment that the burden on living work in Hungary is high, so any step that practically serves to reduce this burden is necessary in my opinion, but that is not the issue in the priority line on the first step. What I see is that instead of reducing the wage burden and the wage burden on workers, the government is going to try to cut down on employers. I don't think that's a good priority. No good, I'm showing you the story through a specific example of why it's not good. If we look at the issue of minimum wage earners, then we see that the fact that the minimum wage was taxed is unacceptable in itself, that it was tax-free before 2010, that it was tax-free, and now that it had a tax burden of 15% this year, that means that we are the first of these countries to be taxed at the level of the minimum wage. That's not good. It is also not good that, while in 2010 the tax and tax burden was 32 thousand forints, which employers and employees paid together after the minimum wage, this figure has now developed to the point that in 2017, after seven years, it is 73 thousand forints against the sum of 32 thousand forints. Employees and employees together pay 42,000 forints more tax and social contributions after a month's minimum wage than in 2010. While the minimum wage is lower, the purchasing power has increased even less. For five years, minimum wage earners made less purchasing power money. That's the reality. In 2010, my fellow Member, in 2010 the net of the minimum wage was HUF 60 200. In the next five years, the minimum wage was less than that, and now, in the current period, the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage increased the situation that the minimum wage was slightly higher both in absolute terms and in purchasing power than it was in 2010. But for five years, these minimum wage people have suffered damage. Now you're compensating for the damage, you're actually doing nothing else, but you're doing that, and I'm going to come back to it once again, while you're throwing a much bigger tax and contribution burden on the employer and the employee, which is matched to the monthly minimum wage. I told you, in 2010 the tax and contribution burden of HUF 32,000 was matched to the net minimum wage of HUF 60 200, and now the minimum wage earners receive HUF 74,000, in this seven-year year 20 percent inflation, HUF 15 thousand minus, take off, my fellow Member, where we have come from. We have come to the point where we are where the net amount of the minimum wage for 2010 is in purchasing value, but in addition or in the meantime we face the fact that we have to pay a contribution of HUF 73,000 against a charge of HUF 32,000. It's a fact. [[Interviews in the ranks of Fidesz.]] That's a fact. [[Péter Cseresnyés: Socialist calculation method...]] Mr. Secretary, I'm not talking about these numbers, they're factual. [[Defiance and interruptions in the ranks of Fidesz.]] No, these are factual numbers. These are factual figures. [[14.20]] I'm sorry that you're not so interested in this thing that at least so you don't talk nonsense between the walls of this Parliament. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Now, now, we're in Parliament...]] They'd look at it themselves, they'd look at it, they'd look at it, they'd think about it, and then they'd act not to raise the gross of the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage to the skies, because the gross increase of it to the sky brings with it the increase in the burden of contributions, and the state can't give up the revenue surplus, and these revenue surpluses serve to scatter these resources among friends, where appropriate. No, it shouldn't be scattered there, it should be left at the employer's place, it shouldn't be imposed on them such an extra charge, precisely in order to enable these forints to be hired, and then today we would be able to keep there that there would be a net minimum wage above HUF 100,000 in this country. They could, yes, if you didn't want to pick up everything and scatter it among your friends, but you wanted to leave it with employers to take measures for the benefit of workers. The basic problems are here. The Fidesz government, with a calm spirit, is not interested in working people, especially those who do work in the lower incomes. The tax burden also shifts to the disadvantage of workers. Employees are burdened by about 50 percent more than employers in this resolution, which I mentioned earlier. We can watch employers pay approximately HUF 30,000 - only employers, as much as employers and employees paid together in 2010 - in line with the minimum wage, compared to HUF 73,000 - and in addition, the employee pays HUF 43,000 in contributions and taxes on the minimum wage. So apparently, the employee pays about 50 percent more than the employer, together with 73 thousand forints, 41 more than in 2010, when it was 32 thousand forints. It's that simple. It's not math, it's arithmetic. It's just arithmetic. But if you look at the guaranteed minimum wage earners, there is a similar picture, because the employer will pay a gross amount of HUF 38 thousand after a month's guaranteed minimum wage, which is HUF 54 thousand. Here, too, more than 40-45 percent of the labour burden is practically higher than the employer's burden. So, what I'm trying to say is that, going back to the first sentence, for me, the first priority should be to reduce the tax burden on the employee. The other part of the story is that, since you do not do so, a multitude of such and similar measures and their inappropriate economic policies have brought the fact that in the 7 to 7.5 years behind us more than 600 thousand people have left this country. [[Peter Cseresnyés intervenes.]] And what is the future? Unfortunately, we do not see a better picture of the future, either, because unfortunately the intention to leave is not decreasing, but is increasing even compared to this. [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks.]] We have just talked about wages, we have made a look out at the previous item on the agenda, and it does not reassure me to say that in the last five years there is a 700 percent increase in the remuneration of members of the Monetary Council, i.e. an increase of 700 percent, while there is, say, a strengthening in realities of 10 percent in line with the minimum wage. The series of birth rates that talks about - and this is also talkative - that a significant part of Hungarian mothers do not give birth to their children in Hungary, but every sixth or seventh child is born abroad, and this is a tragedy. And that's a tragedy, because it can predict where it's going for the future. Of course, in addition to all of this, a multitude of measures have been taken - I will give you an example: in 2011, the Labour Code - where basically disadvantaged measures have been taken for workers, with which, in some cases, they have reduced their income, even with the same work, but a number of examples could be given, but I just want to show that its intermediate measures concerning the world of work have not helped the processes that would have strengthened staying home or playing at home. You promised a million new jobs in the economy. On the farm! Instead, we have the idea that they are trying to support what is happening through false statistics. Practically 150 to 200 thousand more - depending on the period we are looking at - were employed in the country. We cannot consider those who have worked in public employment as primary labour market subjects, not underestimating the importance of this from a social point of view, but counting you with a calm spirit, not even ensuring that these people are able to do value-making work without exception. But in this false statistics it is also stated that about 140,000 people are employed abroad, and according to calculation methods, they are counted as if they were going to end up at home, as if they were employed at home, and because of exactly the fierce story that you have committed, they have to do work abroad and acquire material goods. But with regard to the issue of student employment, which was also mentioned by Dániel Z. Carpathian, which was not included in the statistics eight years ago, it is now included in the statistics, and overall we get to lie about half a million people into statistics as a surplus of employment, and they have actually done nothing to increase the number of workers in the economy by one million on the basis of the promises made by you in Hungary. What they did in practice, however, was that the pay gap in this country, the wage gap, was deepened. I am not saying that 8 years ago there was no difference, let's say, in relation to salaries in Budapest and in Eastern Hungary, there was no difference. Yes, there was! It was! The wages in Budapest were 40-50 percent higher then, such as the Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county or the Szabolcsi. Today, that's a 90-95 percent difference. You have even brought a bill to the House, under the leadership of our fellow Member Czomba - then Secretary of State - where they wanted to give the young people who started their careers a reduced minimum wage, even in terms of minimum wage. So, you've made so many torsos in this regard that it's not random that you brought with you what you've brought to us as a consequence. And here at the hearing of this draft law, I must also say that the lack or absence of social or professional consultation may not lead to results, and that, let's say, the initiatives of interest representatives and trade unions are ignored, as they also say, by default, that personal income tax should be reduced in terms of which everyone from Orbán to Varga has said 9 percent; you know, you know, you know, you know, you know the one-digit, the nine-percent sja, there is nothing of that, instead you have a draft law to reduce the burden of employers, but there is nothing out of the nine-percent sja. So when we talk about corporate tax or socho reduction, I once again stress that the story is not to be condemned, but it is for the benefit of employers, the multinationals. You are practically bringing a new tax haven to life, and we are saying that the interests of the workers must be primarily borne in mind, their burden should be reduced, the minimum wage, the net of the guaranteed minimum wage should be increased, I say, by increasing its net value, not its gross income, no, its net, so that it should be above 100 thousand forints today, and, in general, reach 60% of the average salary. One word, like a hundred, that's what we should do instead of this bill. Thank you very much. [[14.30]]
u2017-10-18-78	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to speak in this debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Cseres, if he wishes to reflect on what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2017-10-18-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond very briefly to the comments, because in my introductory speech I said what the draft was about, but the content of some of the speeches was something that I thought it was absolutely necessary to respond to in a few words, in a few sentences. I am glad that I have been able to listen to Nándor Gúr for many times, because in 15 minutes he has said everything in summary and in detail that he has always said in the last seven and a half years when he was given the floor for 15 minutes. I have almost literally been able to recall and recall everything that my fellow Members and I have heard in each of their speeches. However, how credible your speech was, I would like to respond to a few points. You said that there are 150 to 200 thousand more public workers working today than in your time. [[Nándor Gúr keeps interrupting.]] I would like to remind you that between 170,000 and 180,000 people are now employed in Hungary, in your time, at the time of your administration, there were more than 70,000 public workers. In any case, it's either a mathematical math problem, junior high school, or he was trying to exaggerate the way you exaggerate, or he's trying to mislead the people you're listening to. If we subtract that 70 grand out of the 200,000, that's 130 grand, if we subtract the 70 grand out of the 170,000 who are now working as a public employee, that's 100 grand, so it's definitely not 200,000. You'd better stick to the facts, Congressman Gur. He had many other comments and ideas that could be refuted, such as the fact that the minimum wage was tax-free. Even in your time, the minimum wage was not tax-free, because it was taxed after a while, so it would be better if you stuck to the facts to say your comment next time and looked at it and updated the data. Dániel Z. Kárpát said that there was no market impact on this particular tax reduction, which is a reduction in taxes on wages, and that the problem was, in his view, that a significantly greater tax reduction should have been carried out. Of course, the tax reduction, the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage were increased by consulting market participants, employers and employees' representatives who saw what the Hungarian budget and the Hungarian economy could afford. This is why this agreement has been concluded, which is why it has been possible to reduce the Socho by 15.5 percentage points overall in a six-year perspective if wages rise. And what is more important than the impact on the market is that wages, among other things, have increased significantly as a result of tax reductions, since real wages have increased by 10 percent only in the last seven months. I would repudiate what Congressman Gul and Mrs Bangón said that only gross wages have increased. From 2010 to 2016, real wages increased by 24 per cent, and this had to be added to the about 10 per cent real wage increase I mentioned earlier in the first seven months of this year. I think Ildikó Bangóné Borbély's comment also had a number of ideas that could be refuted, had to be refuted, and most importantly, I would like to refute what I said earlier: he said that certain sentence, he formulated the sentence that seemed serious, that we only raised gross wages and that net wages did not increase. I can continue to say that on several occasions, when I have answered questions or questions of this kind to others, I have responded to the need to look at the statistics, to ask people. If someone were to look at the statistics, ask people, everyone would tell them that both on the basis of statistics and on the basis of people's feelings - because there is more money in payment envelopes - gross wages, but also real wages, have significantly increased. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári applauds.]]
u2017-10-18-80	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on tax exemptions for grants and scholarships granted by the individual State will follow up until closure. Presentation by representatives of Bence Rétvári and István Hollik, representatives of KDNP T/17787. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman Bence Rétvári, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2017-10-18-81	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, A good state creates more jobs in the economy, reduces taxes and reduces bureaucracy. The bill before you serves precisely these purposes. After 2010, the government started its activities for the first time by reducing the tax burden on families, and between 2010 and 2018 a Hungarian family can manage an average of HUF 1.5 million, which is what we left behind as tax and contribution reductions for families. From 1 January 2017, the government of tax reductions reduced the VAT on the main foodstuffs, fresh milk, poultry, eggs to 5%, continuing the earlier VAT reduction for 2016 on pigmeat. The tax reduction will continue next year, in 2018, so the small company tax, the amount of the health contribution will decrease significantly, the VAT on the Internet will fall from 18 percent to 5 percent in 2018 and the VAT on the fish will be 5 percent, and the VAT on the fish will be included in the most favourable rates. The bill before you is therefore closely aligned with the government's objectives, especially the tax reduction, but the same important objective of the proposal is to support those who want to acquire new types of health education, foreign exchange credentials with children. support and tax exemption for certain compensation, defence and international scholarships. Please allow me to briefly describe the main elements of the bill before the plenary of the Honourable Parliament. The purpose of this motion is to exempt certain subsidies and scholarships granted by the State. The bill sets out measures to achieve the goals of the government's highest priority, such as the promotion of education, family formation and childbearing, or I could include improving the working conditions of health care. In view of what has been said, the proposal amends two laws. These are, on the one hand, the 1995 CXVII on personal income tax. Act and LXXX of 1997 on social security benefits and private pensions, and on the coverage of these services. Law. The purpose of the amendment to the Personal Income Tax Act is to add and expand Annex 1 to the Act listing tax-free items, thus extending the circle of relatives of soldiers declared heroic dead, i.e. orphaned children dependent on military widows and the deceased's own household and, in addition to war orphans, the surviving partner becomes entitled to tax-free housing allowance and non-refundable housing allowance. The proposal also provides for the exemption of other benefits provided for in the programme, in addition to the grants granted under the Balassi Bálint Scholarship Programme. In view of the fact that the Minister for Defence has recently established several scholarships aimed, inter alia, at deepening defence education, increasing basic military knowledge, promoting equal opportunities, encouraging military service, the bill expands and clarifies the scope of tax-free scholarships established by the Minister for Defence. This motion also adds new items to Annex 1 to the Personal Income Tax Act. [[14.40]] The Government resolution on the implementation of the Hungarian Presidency of the Visegrad Group in 2017-2018 requires the Minister for Foreign Policy to ensure that programmes to promote diplomatic cooperation are drawn up, that the results and future of the cooperation in Visegrád are focused on supporting research, dissertation and publication activities in the field of foreign policy, and that young professionals interested in foreign policy be involved in the framework of external affairs administration. The bill also provides for the exemption of scholarships and other benefits under the scholarship programme planned by the Minister for Foreign Affairs to carry out the task. In addition to what has been said, the bill before this House also provides for a tax exemption for the Michalicza grant. This new scholarship was founded by the government from this year with the aim of supporting graduates in the acquisition of master's degree and formal nursing skills. This new training and this new scholarship can help hospitals to provide adequate labour supply and a higher level of care for patients. The proposal also makes all of this tax-free. It is also proposed that Adolf Szabóky training grants, as defined in the Government Decree, be exempt from tax, which can be granted on the basis of the results of their studies for the first students in state-supported day-school vocational training training, which is the subject of deficiency training for a given academic year. The bill also provides for a tax exemption for the amount of the first successful language exam and the first advanced foreign language graduation fee refunded under the legislation, which the government is now taking over from the families, both the exam fee and its tax burden. The proposal also exempts the amount of student credit debt released in connection with childbearing under the Government Decree on student credit. As is well known, the government decided that the first child would be retiring from the obligation to repay student loans and that the State would take over the interest burden during this period. With the second child, the State will release half of the debt, and at the time of the birth of the third child, the total student loan will be released, now fully exempt. In addition, the benefit paid by the employer to the employee for the repayment of student loans - which can now be provided by employers in a cafeteria system - will be exempt, up to a maximum of 20 per cent of the minimum wage per month. The bill before this House 2. §2 of the Act complements the scope of health services with those of foreign nationals who establish student or student status in Hungary with a scholarship awarded by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In the light of what has been said above, I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill with their votes a wide-ranging tax reduction and tax cancellation proposal, which primarily concerns students, students and family members. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-18-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask if you'd like to speak on behalf of the government, Secretary of State. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State Tallai, please.
u2017-10-18-83	Mr President, Dear Parliament, My fellow Member, Bence Rétvári, has presented a proposal to this House, the content of which the Government fully agrees. The proposal expands the scope of personal income tax-free benefits with titles which also serve the government's economic and social policy objectives. The proposed measures relate to previous government decisions. It provides for the exemption of scholarship allowances to be paid on the basis of decisions. For example, the Scholarship referred to by the Member, the Michalicza Scholarship, which was established by the Government in a regulation in order to help nurses and paramedics with a higher education to acquire a master's degree or a certificate of nursing education in university training. The scholarship is awarded through a grant. The Szabóky Adolf Vocational Training Scholarship, also founded by the government, helps the younger age group. This scholarship can be applied for by students who are engaged in some kind of deficiency profession if they continue their studies in vocational secondary school, vocational school or vocational school. The Minister of Defence has also established several scholarships for different purposes in his own territory. On the one hand, they serve the purpose of defence education, help talented but disadvantaged young people to complete their studies, and on the other hand encourage the provision of contractual and voluntary reserve services. The government's external policy objectives are supported by the scholarship programme, which is run by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and facilitates the involvement of foreign and foreign economic research, dissertation and publication activities focusing on the cooperation of the Visegrád Four, in the framework of the external management of young professionals interested in foreign policy. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The bill before you is also linked to the achievement of one of our most important goals, and the previous government decision to release part or all of the student loan debt of women who have taken up and raised young children as a non-refundable grant is an incentive for childbearing. It is obvious that the amount released should not be taxable. An old claim is met in this context by a proposal which makes it tax-free to a certain extent if the employer contributes to the repayment of his employee's student loan. This amount shall not exceed the amount of the mandatory instalment and shall not exceed 20 per cent of the minimum wage. Dear Parliament, Finally, let us not forget that, given the low level of knowledge of Hungarian languages, the government has recently decided to help young people financially in obtaining the first language exam. This means that the state will reimburse Hungarian citizens under the statutory conditions for the first successful examination of their 35th year of life or for the first advanced exam of a foreign language. The bill also provides for the exemption of this amount. Dear Parliament, As you can see, all proposed exemptions serve good and eligible purposes. Therefore, the government naturally supports the proposal. We're asking the members of the Parliament to do the same. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-18-84	Thank you very much. Now it's time for the lead speaker of Jobbik, Congressman Gergely Farkas. Here you go.
u2017-10-18-85	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to draw Bence Rétvári's attention to the fact that there are no foreign exchange creditors. You said in your keynote speech, but we're talking student credentials in the proposal. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Good.]] But it's just a little clarification. What I have to start with is that we can support this proposal, as it contains logical proposals and for a purpose that is clear to us, to be supported. This proposal provides tax relief for eight state grants and scholarships in total: grants to the relatives of heroic dead soldiers, Bálint Balassi scholarship programmes, defence training programmes, foreign policy training participants, Michalicza scholarships, Adolf Szabóky vocational training grants, and two additional scholarships that I would like to discuss a little longer. The first one is free of charge for the first language exam and the second one is a discount for student loans. I would like to talk a little longer about making the first language exam free, because this is a better proposal from about four or five years ago, which you have proposed at the beginning of this year, that you would like to do the same. Of course, we were happy about this, but we're sorry we had to wait several years for this. This would have been an initiative that, knowing the language skills of Hungarian people and among Hungarian young people, would have been timely four to five years ago, and we would have liked it if it had not been swept off the table by saying that it was a stupid, bagatell thing, but that they would still see the validity of this, and not four to five years later bring it to the House and implement it. So we can say that it's better later than never, so we're glad that you've finally reached this level, that you've seen that this idea of Jobbik is important, forward-looking and implemented. [[14.50]] I must also say about student loans and a discount on a student loan that we also made a similar proposal in early 2014 on the eligibility of the various discounts for repayments, so we are also pleased that Jobbik's proposal has been implemented in this respect. However, I must add with great sadness that we believe that you have done this in a discriminatory way, because what Bence Rétvári has said here is that the discount is only available to women, so they are the only ones who can benefit from the discounts on student loan repayment, and we believe that this is discriminatory for men. Why not - and allow me to set a specific example - that a man has taken on student loans during his university years, a child born after the university's completion, let's say, the third is now expected, but his wife doesn't have student loans? In this case, the man cannot apply for discounts on student loans, so for them it is the same credit debt, the same repayment is required as before the discount you have just introduced, they are not granted any kind of exemption, just because it was the man of this particular couple, husband-wife, who took up the student loan. Dear rapporteur, I would very much like for you to respond to the question of discrimination in your closet, or even before, why you prefer only women. By the way, we agree with this part, of course, but I ask why the same discount does not apply to the male member of the family in the case of a given family, if he has taken up student loans - I would be very happy to hear from him. But here, there are other problems with student loans. You know what happens when someone in their college years decides that they prefer to tighten their belts, live on smaller legs, not take on student loans, go do student work, and otherwise try to raise money to fund their studies, while someone else takes on student loans, he, you might say, lives on a slightly bigger leg, gets through college years a little easier, and now your initiative is this last kind of lifestyle that someone hires student loans to reward them? I could compare this a little bit to the time when the municipalities were indebted, and in the case of municipalities, too, there was a lot of indignation from the municipalities that respected the borders, did not take credit, but managed from what they had, while other municipalities took on hundreds of millions of loans, lived on large feet, managed to make investments. And all of a sudden, you've abolished, liquidated these debts, and those who've been freed from hundreds of millions of dollars were happy, and those who didn't have any credit because of what they had, they regretted having taken their limits so strictly before. This was, then, a kind of injustice, and how much it was, you could see that, because later they compensated the municipalities where loans were less released. So, I think this is a parallel that will stand up to this situation, because it is not fair here that if someone does not take up student loans, instead they do student work, and they really live on smaller feet, we punish them in this sense, and those who take on student loans are later rewarded for this, and we give them different discounts. I believe that there is a kind of injustice in this system, too, and I would very much like it if you could see that, and as in the case of the municipalities, in this case set up as a parallel example, you have taken the step of compensating the municipalities where there was nothing to let go of, not letting go of debt, so in this case you would find a way in which those who have not taken on student loans would not be in a worse position. So, although Mr Bence Rétvári did not pay much attention during my speech, [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] I trust that we will be able to find answers to these questions, because this not only concerns me, but also a great deal has been dealt with in the media about how discriminatory this type of student loan benefit is, and there is a government regulation other than this current regulation, which is a transfer of tax incentives to this effect, and we have not dealt with it in Parliament. That is why I have taken this opportunity to talk about it briefly here and to get a partial explanation and, in part, to make a motion to eliminate this discrimination and to make student loans available to men. We feel it's fair. Nevertheless, we will support the proposal as a whole. As I said in my introduction, there are eight types of state aid and scholarships that are forward-looking and contain goals that we can agree with, and we will therefore vote in favour of this proposal, but I hope that we can engage in a meaningful, forward-looking dialogue on student loans so that such a discriminatory proposal does not survive. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-18-86	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, There's no independent congressman in the room. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask Congressman Retvári if he wishes to reflect. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2017-10-18-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Thank you very much for your support from the government, thank you very much for your support from your representatives. I hope that this bill will continue to go on and that everyone will support these tax reduction measures. Thank you very much, my good fellow Member, for the correction. Of course, this was a student loan; if I had said otherwise, I was thinking of student loans. It is also why we give mothers the opportunity to suspend or waive student loans, and why this proposal gives mothers the opportunity to receive this benefit free of tax, or other tax incentives, tax waivers: government factions, government parties, was of the view that it was the mothers who fell out of work when they deal with child rearing, they are the ones who bear the greater burden not only in the everyday life, but those whose careers therefore stop, who do not have a job income. That is why we considered it justified that, if they have student loans, the State should suspend them or, in the second, third child, release half or the total amount. This is because mothers are the ones who, while they are with the child, have no salary, they have no wages. We trust that this is also for many mothers who have obtained their degrees and who have been able to cover their expenses only through student loans... - because, honourable Member, many students who take on student loans do not take it because they think it is good or bad, but they simply need it to cover the cost of their studies. That's why they're taking on student loans, and that's why we wish these mothers, who have student loans, had such a discount. But I trust that, as there have been supporting contributions here, and the committee meeting has not said otherwise, the Parliament will support this. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-18-88	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, In order to implement the obligations laid down in Council Directive 2003/48/EC on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments, the 2005 LII on the ratification and publication of the Agreements signed between the Republic of Hungary and the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man and the dependent or associated Caribbean areas. General discussion of the bill on amendments to the agreements published by law until closure. The government referral is T/177778. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, author. Here you go. [[15.00]]
u2017-10-18-89	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The bill before Parliament contains legislative deregulation and unilateral declaration of rights in order to fulfil our international commitments. The bill consists of two chapters. The first chapter aims at deregulation of agreements signed between the Republic of Hungary and the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man and the dependent or associated Caribbean areas with a view to implementing the obligations laid down in Council Directive 2003/48/EC on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. The reason for deregulation is that these bilateral agreements have been replaced by a broader automatic exchange of information on tax matters. The direct legal basis for the wider automatic exchange of tax information is CXC 2015 in Hungary, developed under the auspices of the OECD. a multilateral agreement between the competent authorities on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts published in law, hereinafter referred to as the CRS Agreement. Implementing rules of the CRS Agreement are set out in Annex XXXVII of 2013 on certain rules for international administrative cooperation on tax and other public burdens. It's in law. Hungary has concluded specific international agreements with the jurisdictions of the proposed legislation with a view to implementing the obligations of the Savings Directive. These agreements are set out in LII 2005 It is included in the Annexes to the Act. As the content of the agreements reflects the content of the Savings Directive, these were linked to the application of the Savings Directive. However, the Savings Directive was repealed from 1 January 2016 by EU Directive 2015/2060. From that date, the automatic exchange of tax information on interest data contained in the Savings Directive was replaced in the European Union by the exchange of information under the EU Directive 2014/10 on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, DAC2. The repeal of the Savings Directive and the suspension and termination of the bilateral agreement on the exchange of interest were also justified. The signals received from the partners unilaterally trigger the desired legal effects, which means that the agreements concerned will no longer have to be applied. The automatic exchange of information with these partners will take place in the future on the basis of the CRS agreement. Making a unilateral declaration in Chapter 2 of the bill is the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters and the Protocol amending the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters, published in Hungary by the 2014 XLII. Article 6 of the Tax Aid Convention, hereinafter referred to as "the Convention on Tax Assistance', aims at its earlier applicability compared to the general rule. As with the States that joined the CRS Agreement, Hungary has undertaken to provide the first transmission of data on data for 2016 under that CRS Agreement in 2017. For the record, the NAV has done so. This exchange of information may be carried out with the States or jurisdictions for which the Convention is mutually applicable as from 1 January 2016. This includes states or jurisdictions the tax year of which is the same as the Hungarian calendar year. However, there are States and jurisdictions for which, for technical reasons, the exchange of data would not be possible from 1 January 2016 but only from 1 January 2017 because of the tax year of the jurisdictions concerned, which is different from the calendar year. The OECD, recognising the above problem, has developed a model declaration, different from that of Article 6 of the Tax Aid Convention, allowing for its earlier entry into force. This declaration allows states with different tax years to overlap, thus removing the technical barrier to exchange information. The second chapter of this bill contains the publication of a unilateral declaration, which will achieve the initial objective of exchanging information. Based on what has been said, I ask for the support of the bill. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-10-18-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask you if anyone wishes to speak in the debate on this bill. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has spoken, the general debate is closed. As far as I can tell, I am not going to ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to reflect, as only his opinion has been expressed, and I think he agrees with me now. Therefore, I would like to inform you that it is possible to submit the amendments by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on enforcement procedures to be implemented by the tax authority will follow until closure. The government referral is T/17782. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Once again, I give the floor to Mr Tállai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, the author. Here.
u2017-10-18-91	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The objective pursued by the Bill on enforcement procedures to be implemented by the tax authority is to ensure that enforcement procedures are implemented quickly and effectively, while supporting the voluntary follow-up of debtors, while safeguarding the interests of debtors. In line with the government's expectations for a reduction in administration already set out in the past, the tax authority will, on the basis of the bill, carry out in the future the enforcement procedures for claims arising from various items on the basis of a uniform set of rules. The new bill contains a set of rules for all enforcement procedures falling within the competence of the tax authority. The legislation has been developed in the light of the fact that the powers of the State tax and customs authorities in the field of enforcement will be extended from 2018 and from 1 January 2019. The scope of future claims to be made by the tax authority is partly the same as that of the current tax law, i.e. the tax authorities will continue to implement tax and tax debts, the obligations recorded by the tax authority and the claims which the law considers to be public debt to be recovered as taxes.2018. From 1 January 2006 the State tax and customs authorities will perform a more diverse task, partly different from that of the previous one, and the Act on General Administrative Rules, which will enter into force on 1 January, designates the State tax and customs authorities as a general enforcement body in the public administration. In the light of this innovation, the bill also includes a system of enforcement of claims. A further innovation of the General Administrative Regulation Act is that the State Tax and Customs Authority, as a general enforcement body, will no longer carry out exclusively financial claims in the future, but will also take administrative decisions which are binding upon specific acts or specific conduct, tolerance and termination. In many cases, administrative decisions are aimed at carrying out an act to which the State tax and customs authorities do not have specific expertise, authority clearance or the necessary means, so that the bill provides for the possibility of using organisations with expertise in these enforcement procedures. Dear Parliament, The State tax and customs authorities shall also take over the tasks of forensic enforcement as from 1 January 2019, so that the draft law also specifies the scope of the enforceable documents relating to the performance of those tasks. [[15.10]] The bill, while respecting the prohibition of unduly parallel regulation, considers the law on judicial enforcement to be a general background law, to which it lays down specific provisions only where and to the extent that it is justified by the partly different nature of the debts and the differences in the system of organisation of administrative and judicial enforcement. The aim of the bill is to achieve a uniform procedure for the tax administration by establishing uniform procedural rules. As of 1 January 2018, the State tax and customs authorities will have to recover very diverse and different debts in their respective titles, since, in addition to their classic tasks - the recovery of tax, customs, tax and tax debts - they will remain in their power to recover public debts which are to be recovered as taxes, and the implementation of the obligations of administrative decisions relating to the general administrative collection service will also be a new element on the basis of the general administrative order. It is easy to see that the enforcement of very diverse claims on the basis of different rules would create significant enforcement and enforcement problems on the side of both customers and the tax authority. In order to avoid this, the proposal, with a few necessary exceptions, addresses the implementation of different types of claims and ensures that only one enforcement procedure is in place for all debts owed to the client at the same time. In order to reduce the administration, the proposal introduces an innovation whereby the tax authority will also assess the application for a payment discount in respect of public debt to be recovered by the tax authority on the basis of a single regulatory system. This solution ensures that the application will be dealt with in a single procedure on the basis of uniform principles for all claims, and that the administrative burden of the requesting authorities or other organisations that register or enforce public debt will be reduced. On the customer side, this will result in a positive change in the fact that, in the event of their difficulties in payment, it will be sufficient for them to submit a request to the tax authority in the course of the enforcement procedure, and they will not have to apply to all authorities and other organisations individually. By carrying out all these tasks, the tax authority will spare the authorities concerned a considerable amount of administration. As a result of what has already been said, the tax authority will have a number of additional tasks in January 2018 and after which it will be responsible. In order to ensure that the performance of the additional tasks does not jeopardise the performance of its basic tasks in relation to taxation and that the rights and legitimate interests of customers are not undermined, the proposal also sets out a number of boundaries, bearing in mind the principle of proportionality, which ensure both an efficient procedure and the interests of debtors. For example, the State tax and customs authorities will send a payment notice for a debtor with a debt not exceeding HUF 10 000, and will not carry out any further enforcement action outside the transfer. In the case of a claim exceeding HUF 10 000 but not exceeding HUF 100,000, the transfer will be carried out only by an authority order and an income ban in order to recover. As a rule in the interest of customers, the draft states that, in the event of a suspension of income, the employer shall inform the tax authority, within 15 days of the date of notification of the attachment, of the amount of income that may be banned monthly and of the circumstances affecting the prohibition. The reason for this is that the tax authority may then decide, in the light of the amount expected to be recovered from the ban, on the grounds that further enforcement acts are justified. In the case of minor debts, unnecessary seizure of the movable or immovable property of the debtor can therefore be avoided. Ladies and gentlemen, Rules of a guarantee nature, which protect the debtor's legitimate interest, have also been included in the proposal. For example, the rule that there is no place for real estate implementation in the case of residential property directly serving the housing of the natural person's debtor and his family living with him if the amount of the debt does not exceed HUF 500 000. A similar objective is the rule that housing directly serving the housing of the debtor and the close relatives living with him, of a size not exceeding the upper limit of the eligible housing requirement, can only be sold during the implementation if other forms of implementation have not resulted. In addition, it is proposed that the seized property may be sold only if the claim is not repaid by the imposition of other enforcement acts or only after a disproportionately long period of time. The proposal retains, in accordance with the rules in force, a moratorium on the debtor when implementing a vehicle for the operation or business of a debtor engaged in a business activity, under which the tax authority only makes the reservation of the vehicle by indicating the registration of the vehicle in the vehicle booking record, booking the registration certificate only if the debtor does not pay his debt within 6 months. This may ensure the smooth continuation of farming and the exploitation of the debt by the undertakings concerned. It serves as an effective procedure for the tax administration to ensure that the order of enforcement acts is not binding on the proposal, which is determined by the tax authority within certain limits of a guarantee nature. On this basis, enforcement acts should be implemented with the most effective means of achieving the objective of implementation, while at the same time limiting the debtor to the minimum, taking into account the principle of proportionality. In order to ease the situation of debtors, the bill introduces a new legal institution, the possibility of swapping assets. In the future, the debtor may request the tax authority to release the seized movable property from seizure if the return on the debt is still secured after the release and the debtor offers an asset to cover the debt that reaches the market value of the seized property, i.e. the effectiveness of the execution is not at risk in these cases. The bill before Parliament raises the practice of selling movable property and immovable property at an electronic auction in the procedure of the State Tax and Customs Authority for years. This rule is binding on the State tax and customs authorities, with the exception of the tax exemption specified in the proposal, but the procedure of the municipal tax authority is required only if the IT conditions necessary for the electronic auction are granted to the local government tax authority. The bill sets out specific rules for the sale of perishable goods. The purpose of the bill was to facilitate the exercise of the rights of appeal. To this end, the bill slightly alters the system of redress against decisions and measures taken by the tax authority. In the same way as the current tax law, it is ensured that an enforcement objection can be lodged against the tax authority's unlawful action or failure to act, but in the case of orders made by the tax authority it is no longer possible to lodge an enforcement objection in the future, but the bill provides for an independent appeal against those decisions. The objective pursued is to enable the tax authority to carry out the enforcement tasks entrusted to it as soon as possible in the most efficient manner and to ensure that any behaviour aimed at stalling does not hinder effective and efficient operation, and therefore, in the future, the author of the enforcement objection must indicate in his pleading the contested measure and the reasons for the objector's intention to annul or alter the measure. [[15.20]] The adoption of the proposal is necessary in order to enable the tax authority to carry out its current tasks in an appropriate regulated legal framework and to meet the challenges of becoming a general administrative collection service. On the basis of the above arguments and reasons, I respectfully ask the Parliament to support this proposal.
u2017-10-18-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. First, we have the lead speaker of the Fidesz. Congressman Dénes Pigeon, please.
u2017-10-18-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The main role of taxation is to ensure sufficient revenue to carry out central and local public tasks. This foundation has existed since the state existed. From the resources collected as a tax, a community will cover the costs of investments in the interests of all of us. Taxes are built on schools, hospitals, which will be the way, from which income comes the different benefits. Dear House, The proposal before us is a modern, uniform piece of legislation that will be able to serve these objectives effectively, complementing the action on administrative implementation and taking into account the interests of the community and the debtor in difficulty. In addition to standardising the enforcement procedures to be implemented by the tax authority, the proposal also aims to broaden the implementation activities of the National Tax and Customs Office, and to involve administrative enforcement activities in addition to public debts to be recovered as taxes. The National Tax and Customs Office will be the general enforcement authority on the basis of the legislation of the Public Administration Act in force from 1 January 2018. Due to the change in the concept, the amendment of the Tax Code no longer contains the rules for implementation, which will be included in the proposal before us. In addition, the law will apply to the execution of all decisions and to the assessment of requests for a payment of a benefit in implementation, for which enforcement falls within the competence of the State tax and customs authorities on the basis of the general administrative procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill re-regulates the tax implementation system in a uniform way, clarifies the concepts and also settles a number of questions previously raised in the case-law. The proposal clearly states that the enforcement procedure is an additional task caused by the debtors' failure and that the costs incurred in implementing it are therefore borne by the debtor. The proposal retains the provisions of the former Law on the Rules of Taxation on the order of settlement. In addition, it builds on the claims of traditional own resources due to the European Community. In the same way, the proposal complements the balancing order to be followed in the exercise of the right of retention by keeping the previous regulation. The proposal allows suspension of implementation in three ways: on its own initiative, at the disposal of the superior body or on request. It will still not be possible to request suspension of enforcement on the grounds that a change or annulment of the decision is expected, but the proposal contains the possibility of suspending implementation with due regard to a reasonable reason. The bill sets out a number of worthy reasons on an exemplary basis. The motion re-regulates cases of suspension of the enforcement procedure while maintaining certain elements of the previous regulation. What is new is that, in the event of the adoption of the bill, enforcement is suspended only within eight days after the due date of the debt, which is expected to help to strengthen the willingness to perform voluntarily. Dear House, The proposal addresses cases of cessation of implementation by replacing an old deficiency. The possibility to fine a person who is not a debtor is introduced as a new element. This is based on previous experience that enforcement was hindered not by the debtor himself but by a relative. In order to end the submission of objections to delay and to remedy an incorrect infringement of the law, the proposal also re-regulates the suspensive scope of the enforcement objection. In order to ensure a more effective procedure and to protect the interests of debtors, the proposal also states that the claim should be carried out primarily by transfer. It also states that in the case of a debtor with a net debt not exceeding HUF 10 000, in addition to the payment notice and transfer, the State tax and customs authorities shall not take any other enforcement action. If the payment of the debt is not compromised, the proposal also allows for an exchange of collateral. This is expected to serve both the interests of the debtor and the enforcement seeker. This will not prevent the implementation procedure from being suspended or suspended. It is proposed that it can be used in all administrative enforcement cases, as Mr Secretary of State indicated in his expozee, the electronic auction system already operated by the NAV for nearly ten years, and the scope of electronic communication and electronic procedures will be further extended. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill consolidates the regulatory scope of the enforcement procedures carried out so far by the tax authority and also refers administrative enforcement to the tasks of the tax authority. This is a welcome and forward-looking procedure, knowing the practice that we have not been able to unify before, either at county level or at municipal level. The bill also settles a number of previous issues in a reassuring manner, along with further individualising and speeding up enforcement procedures. The adoption of the proposal, in addition to reducing bureaucracy and procedural costs, could also provide significant relief for debtors with difficulties in paying. In view of complexity, forward-looking nature and professional justification, the Fidesz Group supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-10-18-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of Jobbik, Congressman Gábor Staudt, is next. Here you go.
u2017-10-18-95	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, There seems to be too much interest in these issues either from the parties to government or from the opposition, and what lies before us is more important than what has been said. Although I do not doubt that the intention expressed by the pro-government speakers also contains positive elements, I will address some of the problematic issues arising from the present proposal, from previous government decisions and from the somewhat troubled future ahead. It sounds nice to have implementation in one hand, it sounds nice to entrust the NAV with these tasks, but in practice, unfortunately, that is not exactly what it will mean, and it is feared that the additional resources that the NAV has received for these purposes may not be spent exactly what the government intended it to do, and in terms of efficiency and recovery to the state, not only will the new system be worth it, but it will also cause serious, significant losses. What's this about? First, let us talk about the new system, and then I would also like to mention from the perspective of companies what rights the current system will limit. But first I have to tell you that not so long ago, it is true that I came to the Ministry of Justice, but with a written question, because it came to my attention - which was published in the Gazette, only one does not read through all the pages of the Gazette, but if it receives any attention, it will read the relevant government decisions for a reason and thoroughly - that on 11 August a rather strange government decision was taken, one of which says that the government will decide in the future to delegate forensic enforcement tasks to the NAV and provide an additional HUF 4.8 billion for this and other IT developments to the Tax and Customs Office this year, so not even waiting for this system to rise and in what way. Therefore, the sentence that the Government agrees that the tax and customs authorities will carry out the forensic enforcement tasks as of 1 January 2019 has been published in the decision and has thus been declared in the air. [[15.30]] If we look at the legal background behind it and this was also the case in my written question, then this also concerns two-thirds of the legislation. It's an issue that fundamentally transforms justice and its enforcement system. By the way, in my written question, I quoted precisely the laws that need to be changed. So, not only can it not be decided by a government decision, but we need to introduce a legislative amendment, and some laws require not only a smooth, half majority, but also a fundamental set of provisions. Otherwise, such is the law on judicial enforcement, but I could also refer to the law on the organisation and administration of courts. It was a little weird for me to see what was still ahead of us, and how the government was trying to do that. The answer I received from the Minister of Justice was, not only comforting, but simply treating it as a fact that the government's decision would run through Parliament. At the time, we did not even know about this proposal, which is now ahead of us. And if that wasn't enough, then, as I said, obviously a few more laws in the future, even fundamental laws need to be amended. So the system is not so clear that a government decision, without any justification, is neither good nor legal, nor elegant, if it initiates a process that affects justice to this extent. By the way, 3076/2017. the Constitutional Court's decision to quote a sentence makes it quite clear that the Constitutional Court considers that the issue of changes in the implementing organisation system is a matter of fundamental constitutional importance. And the Constitutional Court describes in detail that these issues as fundamental constitutional issues and questions concerning the judiciary can be defined in a fundamental law and only in an appropriate manner by the Parliament. So, not only can it not be decided in a government decision, but, as I said, no ordinary legislation is appropriate for this. It always comes to mind that a process is taking place, but what is the reason for it? We don't know anything about that, because the Minister of Justice's response didn't lead us any further. I received a confusing explanation in this reply, available on the National Assembly website. On the one hand, they refer to the fact that they believe that the percentage of execution is low, the enforcement efficiency that forensic executives achieve. They're talking about 10 percent, but you have to know, and here, probably the person who wrote the answer in the Ministry of Justice is not aware of how statistics are produced on forensic executions. Moreover, the revision of the whole statistical system itself has been repeatedly proposed by forensic executives and their representative organisations. So the amounts that will come in later, or when a ban is made on someone's income, and the amount will only come back after years, and obviously the rate of return is constantly increasing, often does not appear in the relevant statistics. Of course, the Minister's reply also acknowledges that these are matters in which implementation is very difficult, so at least this part of the sentence has been included. But what's even more strange is that there's a reference in it that the National Court Office has asked for a reform of the system. And imagine, at the National Court Office, it seems that they tend to refer to the question of, say, the forensic executives, that this was a government decision, the government's decision to change the system was made. So it's playing chess and throwing the problem from one side to the other. But why is this whole system important for the future? If it were only to be handed over to the NAV in the future to carry out forensic enforcement tasks, it would otherwise be appropriate to say so and to change the fundamental laws first, so that appropriate laws and then appropriate government decisions can be established; this would be done within the framework of the rule of law. But even when it comes to putting the task out of one pocket of the state into the pocket of the other, it is still possible to have a professional debate about whether it is more effective or not. In parentheses, I note that it is also required for forensic executors, just as for independent court bailiffs, the law degree is required. This is not a requirement for the NAV, it only requires a secondary education and an additional exam to be able to work on enforcement cases. So it is certain that this will not lead to progress in expertise. But what is even more ominous is that it will probably happen, and the ministerial response to my part doesn't deny it, but it also offers the possibility that some of these cases will end up with the independent bailiffs. And what's wrong with that, besides the fact that there are countless criticisms of the otherwise market-based independent bailiffs? This is a problem because these executives, we're talking about independent bailiffs, they're not gonna move without a fee. Who's gonna advance that? The state. In what way, through the NAV or how, this is another question. The state will pay money, a fee and a fee advance, so that the self-executors can begin to act, who, of course, cannot collect these debts, or most of them will not be able to collect them in the same way, or they will not be as effective as the forensic executors; then they will close the cases, put them in the archives, and they will pass away. And we're in the same place: efficiency is not increasing, but the state has paid a lot of money to independent bailiffs. This will also be the case because the ministerial response, by the way, my fellow Member Pigeon, looks at it, is available, and Pál Völner has signed as State Secretary, and is already blowing this opportunity away. And if that's not enough, and you don't believe it, then ask me after. Because I have received information about what God, the representative of the NAV, has given at a conference held in the last few weeks - even the Secretary of State of Tállai, as the head of the NAV, can ask about whether this has happened - he was supposedly present at the conference of independent bailiffs, and he has told them to calm down, the new law, I suppose, could refer to what is ahead, the new regulation, which will be adopted next year, will then benefit them as well. I mean, the independent bailiffs. That's probably what it said that some of the cases might be in their possession. And like I said, it's not just about how much they're charging, it's about how much they're getting, but they're gonna get some of the labor and the cost girl in advance. By the way, the reference, which is also stated in this explanatory statement and in the ministerial reply, is true, that it does not have an IT background for forensic executives. So the courts spent almost nothing on personal, IT and other circumstances. Imagine, for example, the cost of an on-site procedure has not changed since 94, 700 HUF. They had to deal with the major case in a system that... you know, the courts don't have high-tech technology in computer park use. Well, the system looked like what had been scrapped in court was what the Forensic Executors got, and even in the court system, they had to work with the most combated machines. In this way, the NAV will receive 4.8 billion in advance, otherwise the IT background of the forensic enforcement system could have been properly developed. So it's easy, it's customary to say that the government has already given 5 billion so that the NAV hasn't moved yet, and in fact the legal background hasn't even been developed. So that's it for this part. Obviously, the subject still needs to be presented to the Parliament, but it was a rather naughty series of proceedings, as the government, in a hidden way, brings forward these amendments. However, what I have to mention about the law quickly, and this may be important here for legal guarantees, experts have said that, despite the fact that we can hear nice slogans from the government, these changes can seriously undermine the possibilities of redress for businesses that do not want to act in bad faith. [[15.40]] But the fact that no new facts can be established in the appeal procedure, whether a new document, public-credit accounts or other records can be presented, cannot be taken into account, is a significant reduction. Therefore, despite the possibility of appeal, despite the wide variety of remedies, if these evidence had simply not been found in the course of the first instance procedure, then the company could not, in fact, refer to the fact that it had found these documents or realized what it should have submitted. And we know that this will also hit small and medium-sized enterprises, because large companies have much more money to employ serious legal and tax law professionals. They can get these documents out in a jiffy, and small and medium-sized enterprises can't do anything if they're running out of time. The practice is that there are some documents that come up in the course of the court, which would disprove the arguments of the tax authority, but they will not be able to be taken into account by the courts. Moreover, in the future, an objection to service may be challenged within a period of no more than 45 days from the date on which the presumption has been raised on the ground of irregular service. That's not very fair to companies. So far, the deadline has been six months. So if someone later finds out that they didn't get an official letter that they were supposed to receive, and it slips out of this month and a half, then, in fact, the IRS will act immediately. So we are still asking the government to reconsider this proposal. It's not even close to perfect. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-10-18-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. There's no independent congressman in the room, no one's applied for a two-minute speech. I ask you, Honourable Parliament, if anyone would like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] No. As no one has applied for a speech, the general debate is closed. Secretary of State, do you wish to reflect? [[For signal:]] Secretary of State Tallai, please.
u2017-10-18-97	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Firstly, I would like to thank the pro-government Member for his support for the bill. I would like to respond briefly to Mr Staudt Gábor's speech. First of all, it was a very interesting speech, because for 13 minutes he was actually dealing not with the bill, but with a government decision, a reply from the Ministry of Justice and a decision by the Constitutional Court. Indeed, it may be indirectly linked, but this law is basically about the system governing the new implementation of the tax and customs authorities, it is about acting in an organization and in a united manner in Hungary in the course of implementation. Basically, the bill is about adapting and regulating general administrative implementation, and the new task that the tax authority, a significant part of it, is difficult to define, but at least 90 percent will not be about forensic implementation, but about general administrative implementation. This, however, was not criticised by the congressman. I'll take that as your support, obviously. As far as this particular government decision is concerned, 4.8 billion is not the source of the transformation of forensic implementation, but is precisely the source of the reform of general administrative implementation. And this, by the way, has the leg of law, because already in 2016, the law which states that the enforcement body will be the tax authority. So, in this sense, the Members' statements are not real. However, it is a fact that the transfer of the system of forensic enforcement will take place only on 1 January 2019, and obviously, if this is still subject to legal order, I believe that both the government and the Parliament can do so. Overall, his suggestion that new evidence may not be provided or made available to the courts during appeal proceedings is essentially intended to speed up the closure of these cases, as set out in the Tax Bill. Because so far, even the procedure of proof has been restarted in these review stages and substantially extended. A new philosophy, a new way of thinking, must be taken over by taxpayers or those who have an obligation to the tax authority to disclose all evidence in the tax administration procedure and will not be able to present it in court proceedings. That should be basically the purpose of this. Otherwise, in my opinion, the bill achieves its purpose, creating a uniform implementation procedure in Hungary. An outstanding part of what will be very beneficial for individuals is that, in the case of tax recovery, it has been necessary to apply to the organisation for payment facilitation and fairness, which will be the responsibility of the tax authority in the future. So there will also be an organization in one place to decide the taxpayer's request. This will be a major facilitation, which will affect at least individuals and, by the way, organisations. Thank you very much for your opinions, and I ask that the Parliament support the bill. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-18-98	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2007 General Sales Tax CXXVII. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Presentation by Members of Gergely Tapolczai and Zsolt Nyitrai, representatives of Fidesz T/17786. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Tapolczai, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-10-18-99	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I do not wish to exhaust the 30 minutes that I have at my disposal, because I think that our bill and amendment, together with my colleague Zsolt Nyitrai, are clear and clear. We have discussed this proposal with the National Association of Hungarian Blinds and Sensitives. In Hungary, there are over 86 thousand blind and weak-sighted people. More than 9,000 of them are blind and over 73,000 are weak - looking, and 3,000 are deaf - blind countrymen in the country. This amendment would be a great help to them, since we would like to include the part that includes the Braille printer and the Braille indicator in the preferential VAT circle. The Braille typewriter has been subject to a reduced VAT rate so far, but, as the technology evolves, the Braille tools themselves have also been expanded and modernised. That is why we recommend that we include Braille printers and Braille display devices under the reduced VAT rate. Of course, it can be seen at the same time that digital technology is developing, so more and more blind and weak-sighted people have access to information through digital technology, but at the same time it is still important for them to use Braille tools. [[15.50]] The transition from 27 percent VAT to 5 percent VAT is therefore a great relief for the majority of visually impaired people, and it is important that during the preparation of the proposal we have been in constant professional consultation, and that we have also been in constant agreement between the government and the factions. I think that it is worth continuing the dialogue not only with the National Federation of Blind and Sensitives, but also with other organisations of interest, either through the Board of Disabilities, through me or through the Prime Minister's representative, through my fellow Member, Mr Nyitrai, or obviously through the State Secretariat. It is also important to note that in the 2018 budget we increased the support of advocacy organisations by 5 percent and the support of programmes to promote equal opportunities for people with disabilities, instead of 160 million per year, the budget for next year is HUF 260 million. Different professional programmes will be supported from this framework, such as support for the purchase of motor vehicles and support the training of assisting dogs. We offer 20 million HUF more for the development of the elementary visual rehabilitation area, of which we aim primarily to fill the shortage of professionals. The National Federation of Blind and Sensitives can provide more services to those affected by increased funding, such as Braille publications or even music, the Braille library, or more resources for training guide dogs. To sum up, therefore, I would like to emphasise once again that the proposal we are talking about is clear and clear, and this clearly helps the communication and lifestyle of people with poor vision and blindness, so I would ask my fellow Members to support the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-18-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[To the sign language interpreter:]] Thank you so much for your help. Mr Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, is now able to give his opinion to the keynote speakers. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] Oh, I made a mistake. My apologies. We've been giving each other the opportunity so routinely. I must ask you, on behalf of the Government, if you wish to speak now. (To signal:) Yes. Excuse me. I also apologize to Congressman Wolf. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-18-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear rapporteur, Mr President, The purpose of the bill was clear: for visually impaired people, the Braille printer and indicator required for the use of Braille should also be included in the reduced VAT rate of 5%. In this respect, the government's position is clear: it supports the proposal to make their lives easier by buying a cheaper product with reduced VAT rates to help blind people and people with poor vision. Account should be taken of technical progress, which Mr President mentioned in his national speech, and these reduced VAT products should be made available to these people. It is important to facilitate integration into society in their lives, and the government also wants to contribute to this with the possibility of purchasing cheaper products. So the proposal, the bill, is supported by the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-18-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Gergely Farkas now has the opportunity to give his speech. Here you go.
u2017-10-18-103	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Congressmen, ladies! We support the proposal, because we want people with disabilities to have access to the tools that make their lives easier and help them access the same. What I would also like to say is related to the technical progress described in the explanatory statement, because we see it a little bit more nuanced. The justification refers to the fact that this is necessary to follow technical progress, but we see that there is a serious lag here, and there are a number of instruments that are also in place here today, software or other accessories or even talking electronic devices that would greatly help this group's living conditions or life opportunities, and we would consider it important that these devices should also be included in this group, which can be bought with a reduced VAT content. So we trust that this is just a small step that will be followed by new additions. At the same time, we know that this is an important thing, but it is not enough to live on its own, and we trust that this kind of progress will also be shown in other areas. For example, with regard to budgetary resources relating to relocation, we find that every year there is less money available for this, and, for example, in this area, it would be important not to see such a trend, but to see it in the opposite direction, and to increase the amount of funds that can be spent on this, or even in the case of accessibility in other places, we feel that much more progress is needed in order to make the life of this social group even easier. As regards the general VAT reductions, we know very well that in recent years there have been several goods or services or other categories for which VAT reductions have been made, and the problem arises here, too, whether traders do not swallow the profits from VAT reductions here, i.e. to put it very simply, that the price remains the same for consumers, despite the fact that they are no longer 27 per cent, but, let's say, 5 per cent of VAT affects the particular product or service. So the question arises here, too, how will it be possible to ensure that there is a real drop in prices in stores for this social group. This is a question that I trust we can find a solution here together, whether the government will pay particular attention to the checks in this regard, and the competent authorities will also pay particular attention to these checks. Overall, we therefore support the proposal, we feel that it is a forward-looking proposal, but we trust that this is just a small step. I would also urge the Government and the submitting representatives to come up with further proposals, either on what could be added to the scope of services and tools for reduced VAT content, which are indeed expanding as a result of technical progress, and I would also urge the petitioners to propose to the government and the competent authorities to pay due attention to the checks in order to actually show this price reduction for the social group concerned. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-10-18-104	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, There's no independent congressman in the room. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. I'm asking if anyone wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Tapolczai, as rapporteur, if he wishes to reflect on what has been said. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2017-10-18-105	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] First of all, thank you very much for the supporting comments, and I would just briefly reflect. [[16.00]] [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] It is a legitimate observation that it is necessary to pay attention to the fact that the price reduction is actually reflected in the price of the products, and, as I said, we are in constant contact with the National Association of Hungarian Blind and Sensitives. I am sure that they will signal it immediately if this bill or amendment does not come down as we expect or expect, and if that is the case, we will definitely take action in this case. Of course, we also monitor the possibility of other instruments and related price reductions, and in this respect we are also in constant contact with MVGYOSZ. It was the day of the white stick on 15 October, and on this occasion we had the opportunity to hold a joint press conference with the National Association of Hungarian Blind and Sensitives and with my fellow Member Zsolt Nyitrai, and there are also several topics that will be reviewed in the future in order to further help their situation. So I would like to point out once again that there is constant communication and thinking with them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-18-106	Welcome back to my fellow Members. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. A general debate on the proposal for a decision on the day of Hungarian sign language is now taking place until the conclusion. Presentation by Members Gergely Tapolczai and Zsolt Nyitrai H/17785. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I will also give the floor to Mr Gergely Tapolczai, the rapporteur on the agenda.
u2017-10-18-107	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you again for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This parliamentary decision proposal is also short and clear: we would like to propose that the Hungarian Parliament declare 9 November to be the day of Hungarian sign language. If we go back in time, we can see that in 2007 the Hungarian Parliament adopted the 2007 XCII. a law which ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and not only signed it, but, as I said, ratified it. So the convention became binding, and the Hungarian State recognised that the provisions of this agreement were binding on itself, and the implementation started. One of the results of this is the Hungarian Sign Language and the Act on the Use of Hungarian Sign Language, which was adopted unanimously by the Hungarian Parliament on 9 November 2009 without voting against or abstaining. In 2011, at the time of the adoption of the Fundamental Law, the requirement that the Hungarian State protects the Hungarian sign language as part of the Hungarian culture was already laid down in the Fundamental Law. In 2017, the National Association of Deafs and Nagyodhalók celebrates the 110th anniversary, and Ádám Kósa, President of Sinos, also spoke to me in a letter from the European Parliament in order to support this initiative to accept 9 November as a day of Hungarian sign language. If you look at the text of the UN Convention, there are several important wordings and definitions in relation to sign language. For example, the language includes spoken languages, sign languages and other forms of non-spoken languages, as well as the acceptance of sign language, Braille or any other communication tool chosen by persons with disabilities during official contact. It also states that the States signatory to the Convention recognise and facilitate the use of sign languages, facilitate the acquisition of sign language and support the linguistic identity of the hearing-damaged community. Persons with disabilities shall be entitled, on the same basis as others, to the recognition and support of their specific culture and linguistic identity, including sign languages and deaf culture. The Hungarian Sign Language Act mentions the following: it recognises the Hungarian sign language as an independent natural language, and it defines the community of Hungarian Sign Language Users as a linguistic minority, whose members have the right to use the Hungarian Sign Language, to develop, preserve, nurture, grow and transfer the sign language. Furthermore, it makes the free sign language interpreter service a mandatory public task, and on the basis of this, any person with a hearing disability who is entitled to receive 120 hours of free interpretation per year is entitled to 120 hours per year, and students in secondary and higher education receive an additional 120 hours per year by law. The interpreter service system operates with national coverage and county level from a recognised state source of HUF 420 million per year. A number of legislation has also been amended by the Sign Language Act to clarify and clarify the other legal environment. For example, in the course of official procedures, the Hungarian sign language can be used by the data subjects, and the law made it compulsory to sign certain television programmes or to provide them with sign language interpretations in an increasing number of hours each year. The eight years since then have made a lot of progress in many areas, and it has also brought quality improvements in the quality of communication accessibility for self-living. The sign language interpreter service has also expanded with a sector that was previously unimaginable. This is the sign language interpreter service of the CONTACT, which provides a video-based sign language interpretation. This project started in 2013, this development, to which the state has provided more than 720 million forints of funding through an EU project. This system helps more than 50 percent more people than the 1000 people targeted, with more than 300 hours of clear interpretation time per month, so the Kontakt system provides this much accessibility per month for sign language users, which means that the interpreter does not need to be present locally for interpretation, but can make communication accessible through a technical device and Internet connection. In 2013, JelEsély, a HUF 420 million project aimed at establishing sign language and bilingual education was also launched, a scientific description of Hungarian sign language, as well as to make it suitable for school education, and to map the use of the sign language of the deaf community. So, overall, Hungary has made significant, extraordinary developments in this area on an international scale and continues to operate to help hearing-damaged people. The expression of the day of Hungarian sign language can therefore not only be of symbolic value, but also have a real professional political background. There is also a special reason for this, because between 8 and 10 November 2017, the National Association of Deafs and Great Speakers will host the third international conference of the World Federation of Deafs, and the opening of the conference will be completely by accident, on 9 November. [[16.10]] So it would also be a very good example for the international community of deaf people that the Hungarian sign language day will be held every year in Hungary. On the part of the World Federation of Deafs, there is such an ambition that the UN recognizes a day that could be an international day of sign language. So from this point of view, I think that we can also help them with their work, so we're kind of running ahead on this thing. To sum up, therefore, I call for the support of my fellow Members on the parliamentary decision. And one more opinion: we have been accustomed to having benches for several legislative proposals, but I find it rather sad that neither the MSZP nor the LMP nor the independent Members would do so with at least one representative. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-10-18-108	Thank you. Yeah, it's a sad turnout, but I'm telling you that the MSZP representative is sitting next to me as a notary. Now I'm going to ask Mr. Secretary of State Czibere if he wants to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-18-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, First of all, I must say that the benches may be toothy now, but I hope, and with this I will conclude my speech, that there will be a unity and compromise experienced in this matter in earlier times in the final vote. After all, in recent years we have seen that without any parliamentary affiliation, we have basically supported initiatives on the issue of social acceptance, social inclusion and social inclusion of people with disabilities, and this is the case. Therefore, this proposal is a symbolic matter, a common matter that is a common matter for society as a whole. That's why the government is supporting him. For many years there has been a tradition in the Hungarian Parliament, as I have said, that proposals and draft legislation relating to people with disabilities, disability, always end with large-scale, in most cases unanimous support. This was also the case with regard to the Hungarian sign language mentioned by the Member and the draft law on the use of Hungarian sign language, which was adopted by the House on 9 November 2009 without vote or abstention. In doing so, a law has become part of the domestic legal system, which included very forward-looking provisions in international comparison, and today we can be as proud of its provisions as we were born. The Sign Language Act strengthens the long-standing endeavour of protecting the interests of hearing-damaged people by recognising the Hungarian sign language as an independent natural language, and defines the community of persons using the Hungarian sign language as a linguistic minority whose members have the right to use, develop, preserve, cultivate, grow and transfer Hungarian sign language. Less than two years later, Hungary joined the ranks of the few states that laid down in the Fundamental Law, at the highest level, that it considers the sign language to be part of national culture and thus protects it accordingly. The years that we have left behind illustrate that it is not a goal, but a means, a kind of foundation, a basis for construction, that we can see as a basis for our work in behalf of hearing-damaged people who use the sign language. We have developed and strengthened the national system of free sign language interpretation, which has become a mandatory state task under the Sign Language Act, in recent years. We are now preparing for its further development in the next period from spring 2018. His regulation has been extended. While HUF 298 million was available for this purpose in 2009, it is currently HUF 420 million a year, and we ensure that eligible persons can obtain free sign language interpretations guaranteed by the state anywhere in the country through a named domestic budget source. Continued development and improvement of equal access is a prerequisite for the social integration of people with disabilities. With the establishment of the national register of sign language interpreters and the operation of the training system, we have raised the prestige of the sign language interpreter profession and maintain the high professional quality of the service. As Mr President has said, it was an important improvement of this service when the VCCTB video interpreter service was launched. This is what has significantly expanded the range of users, and this has led us to announce in recent months a tender with a budget of HUF 4 billion to all national professional organisations representing the interests of disabled people, in order to consider what improvements they can introduce to help and support their own target group in the area of accessibility and accessibility for infocommunications. Under the Sign Language Act, action in the field of media regulation has also made it possible to see a constant increase in the proportion of television programmes broadcast with subtitles, sign language interpretations, and it has also become natural by the Sign Language Act that deaf people can use their mother tongue, sign language, in all official and official procedures. I, too, would like to mention that the most recent aspect of the World Deaf Federation III. It is hosted by its international conference, and Budapest hosts this large series of events organized by the National Association of Deafs and Hearers. The government's commitment in this case is precisely indicated by the fact that the programme's chief protector is Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Based on what has been said, it is safe to say that Hungary stands out in international comparison in terms of the use of sign language and the promotion of the social integration of hearing-damaged people. Therefore, declaring the day of Hungarian sign language is not merely an empty gesture, but an important social step with real content, we can say, with a national strategy message. Therefore, the resolution proposal submitted by Mr Gergely Tapolczai and Mr Zsolt Nyitrai is welcomed by the government and recommends that the Honourable Parliament adopt it. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-18-110	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now there will be a piece of speech by the lead speaker, because the other parties have not indicated that they would speak. So I give the floor to Gergely Farkas, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-10-18-111	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, I must start where my fellow Member Gergely Tapolczai has finished. In addition to our support for this proposal, I would also like to express my regret with regard to the other opposition groups or with regard to the independent Members; I regret that they have not appeared and do not provide their support for this truly important and rare proposal when there is a consensus between the parliamentary parties. I think that this subject should have been so much for them. As I have said, we support the proposal, we are always happy to say that these are important in relation to such a new day, because, in this case, sign language can draw attention to the problems of a particular group, in this case a group of people with sign language. [[16.20]] This day is suitable for this, and we consider this proposal to be important for us because it is in this way that we can prove once again that this area is important for the legislative process, and this social group is important. We regret, however, that even on the pro-government side there are manifestations that cannot be fully integrated into the very positive and forward-looking manifestations that I have heard before me. I would just like to mention one thing: the statements of the mayor of Budapest, who, in connection with the metro renovations, allowed himself rather interesting wording on the need for accessibility. So I hope that you can sort this out in-house and point to the principles that you are very right about, but it would be important for him to see this problem in the same way. This sign language day is important, but there are a number of problems that also affect this class of society. Here I have mentioned accessibility several times, and I am doing it from time to time and returning to this topic because we feel that there is a serious delay in Hungary in this regard. Then we could say that everything is okay in this area, if a disabled person could get from his accessible home through accessible means of transport to an accessible educational facility, where he would equip himself with knowledge that would enable him to work and then work in a barrier-free workplace, and if he could go to, say, an accessible healthcare facility because of his health problems, or use accessible services. It must be said that we are far from Hungary today. So I would continue, as I said to the petitioners at the previous item, and now that Gergely Tapolczai is here, I would urge him not to give up lobbying and to try harder to enforce the interests of the social group he represents, not only in relation to accessibility, but also in relation to a number of other problems that affect them and in which meaningful progress could be made. Allow me to draw attention to one more problem, and to an initiative that our group has used before, namely, in the case of the sign language interpreter, that in many cases it is the sign language interpreter whose absence can cause problems, and I therefore ask the author or the government, the pro-government representatives, to support our group's earlier motion and to stand by the case that, when obtaining a social and health diploma, the language examination obligation can be passed by a sign language exam. This could, in particular, result in an increase in the assisting profession to the extent that we can achieve full accessibility in this area at least. I trust that this has not been supported before, but this will be considered and can be supported later. I would very much like the rapporteur to make a statement on our motion on this. Finally, I would like to confirm once again that we support the motion before us. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-10-18-112	Thank you, Congressman. As a matter of decency, I ask if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I'll ask Gergely Tapolczai as the author if he wants to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-18-113	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for both the Secretary of State and my fellow Member, Mr Gergely Farkas, for your support and words. As I look down the hall, I remember how far we've come in the last ten years. In 2007 we adopted the UN Convention, in December 2007 we celebrated the 100th anniversary of Sinos in the Hall of Felsőházi, and how much has happened since then, how much has been improved, how much has changed, not only in the lives of hearing-damaged people, but also in other types of disability. I agree with my fellow Member that it would be ideal and the aim would be to be able to travel, communicate, deal with people with disabilities, from a barrier-free home to a barrier-free school, to a health institution, but we must also remember where we started. So this was a very deep situation at the time of the change of regime, and given the state of society at the time, it is very difficult, perhaps one of the most difficult things is social awareness - so that people are open not only financially or in principle, but also truly, in their thinking, they become aware of people with disabilities. With regard to accessibility, I find that no matter how we strive, our lives will never be completely barrier-free, because with the development of technology, new and new environmental types, new types of buildings, which are new and new tasks for us, the principle that we call universal design is very important. So if we get to the point that every professional, politician, co-worker, health worker - anyone - works and works on the principle of universal design, then we can say that our lives will be completely barrier-free, but so far we have a very long way to go. We've got a lot of work to do. We've got things to do. For example, the issue of bilingual education and bilingual education in the deaf area can be mentioned at present, but there are also processes to be solved for other disability groups, whether in the field of communication or in the area of promoting their own lives. Thank you for the suggestion on the sign language language exam. In principle, we agree with this proposal to recognise the sign language exam as a language exam for professionals working in the health and social field, but a process must be completed, and this is the process of accreditation of the Hungarian sign language. Although Hungarian sign language has been recognised, this does not automatically involve accreditation of Hungarian sign language. As soon as this accreditation is carried out and it is accredited for a language examination, it is possible then to apply for a language examination of the level and the level of recognition of this language, after which we can talk about this issue. In conclusion, I would like to say that wherever we are in Europe, we give lectures on the Hungarian Sign Language Law and the situation in Hungary, I think and the experience that we can really set a good example, especially if we are based on the situation ten years ago, so there is a lot of progress. We always admire the Scandinavian countries, the European examples, but I can tell you that they admire us now. So I very much hope that there will indeed be unanimous support from all parties on this issue. In the hope of that, I thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-18-114	Thank you very much, Mr Gergely Tapolczai, for your comment and for your closing. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We have reached the end of the discussion of today's agenda. No one applied for a post-meeting speech. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 4:30 p.m.]]
