u2017-05-15-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear House, The 24th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda on behalf of the Christian Democratic People's Party, István Hollik, Member of the European Parliament:, Jobbik is a party of aggression. Congressman's got the floor.
u2017-05-15-1	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I will come out of this force field and fight my struggles about this in-house and even out-of-house; and I will fight - these sentences about opposition, country division and hatred he said not so long ago, the President of Jobbik. These are beautiful thoughts, but it turned out last week that Gábor Vona's mouth was just a big fake, because Jobbik's so-called working week was nothing but threats, hatred and violence. On Monday, a representative of Jobbik was here in Parliament, shouting, and then threatening a secretary of state with violence. [[Interview in the ranks of the MSZP: Who introduced me to him!]] I don't want to quote the threatening sentences literally because it contained not only uncontrolled aggression, but also in subpar style. After an unprecedented case in Parliament, György Szilágyi made a cynical apology to the public, but he did not apologize to the person he actually threatened. On Tuesday, it turned out that Congressman Szilágyi had several followers. We have learned that the president of Jobbik's 60th organization, Csilla Rákócziné Lózs, would also use violent violence, and that even Vona's party president's pearl confidant joined him. The 60-year-old President also had a public idea about beating the Prime Minister. I am just saying to Mr Party President that, according to public data, these people are still working for the Jobbik Group. Wednesday, too, was the day when the former party president did nothing to the public about the hatred and aggression within his party. Gábor Vona was so capable of telling Thursday morning on his master's TV that he was very angry and that Szilágyi's sentence was not acceptable. Of course, nothing's happened since then. [[Dóra Dúró: How do you know?]] During that day, on Thursday, another Jobbikian, György Lukács defended György Szilágyi, explaining his threats in an indeterminate style, and at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, Luke even bid on his partner's sentences. So much for the party authority of the president of Jobbik. I would just like to note in parentheses that LMP and MSZP, which had a huge slumber over public speaking, have joined, since this topic was also mentioned in the House Committee, where they did not support any sanctioning of Szilágyi's words. On Friday, certain details of David Janiczak's discussions with the colleagues of the better mayor of Ózd were made public. I wouldn't quote these because they don't belong in the Parliamentary record, so let's just say that the willy facet accused of corruption threatened one of your female colleagues with virtually sexual violence in case you discuss their little secret. The fact is that, if we look at Jobbik, on the basis of this tone, aggression has never been far from the party's short story, from the threatening marches of the Hungarian Guard to the flag burning, to the parliamentary threats. No matter what the kitty selfies are, the cute parasite always has aggression sticking out. Last Monday party president Gábor Vona asked an immediate question, and his first sentence was that Jobbik would form the government in 2018. However, there are two problems with this. On the one hand, that he, no matter how much he wants to do so, will be decided by the electorate, and on the other hand, how would politicians who lose their heads with a three-minute Secretary of State reply start threatening to threaten me with aggression? With such mentality, dear right-wing Members, you cannot govern. Some tried it, they called it Ferenc Gyurcsány, and we saw how it ended: in 2006, peaceful people were beaten up on the streets. Hungary does not need such governance. [[Adam Mirkóczki intervenes.]] [[13.10]] To sum up, the President of Jobbik, who talked about building a bridge, was again a voiceman. Rather, the better Members follow the unwashed, aggressive and threatening style of their master who thinks about disemboweling. Gábor Vona is now quite weak to do anything about the increasingly violent aggression in Jobbik. I am trying to say that the Honourable Party President should understand that it is difficult for a nailless cat to climb a tree. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the contemporary parties. Interview from the benches of the MSZP:]]
u2017-05-15-2	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-05-15-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I see Gábor Vona's party president has just come in personally to hold back his faction, and no one has a sniff. When you leave, I'm afraid the Jobbik fraction will continue where you left off last week. It was not a unique case, it was not a once-in-a-lifetime chance to threaten violence, but if we look at the history of Jobbik in Parliament, then, as the Member has listed, we can always find a case from month to month, which is exactly what appeared better in the media. This Szilágyi-tárok, if you can call it that, had many precedents in Jobbik's history, but what can we expect from a party whose basic identity, conception and communication can be traced back to the Kuruc.info? They may try to replace kuruc.infót index.hu, but nevertheless the fundamentally aggressive attitude remains the same. One of the low points of the previous term was, no doubt, Congressman György Zagyva, who wanted to discuss matters in the corridor in a similar way, or not to discuss them, but at least to settle them. But we also remember that, not only in the walls of Parliament, but also in 2010 on Magyar Island, he called for an interview in a wooden house, where he threatened them with physical violence with whips. But we can also remember that Jobbik, from recent years, is the party that has made flag burning a regular event at its events, and that from time to time one of the flags of the European Union has usually caught fire. This is not usually a feature of the peaceful middle parties in Europe. György Gyula Zagyva made it to the threat and much more, and now he can oversee the public employment activity there in the model city of Jobbik, Tisavasvári. It has remained within the party's bosom, so they will continue to provide for their fellow Member, who may have threatened to fight, fight or even violence outside Parliament. But we can remember that the famous listing case is directly linked to Jobbik's faction. And we also know how the memorial on the Danube, which commemorates the victims of the Holocaust, was abused when one of the shoes was spitting directly into it. Obviously, a greeting to Hanukkah was less than welcome from many of our fellow Jews. These various events only show that aggression was there at the birth of Jobbik, and it doesn't change, although it can do a lot for power and money, but the horse's foot hangs out everywhere. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] There may be a colourless, odorless communication over there, but violent words in Jobbik are also followed by violent acts. And obviously, if someone reacts in opposition to fellow Members of Parliament, against members of government, against State Secretarys, there is no doubt that if they were given the opportunity to govern, how and how they would operate. We hope that Hungary will be spared by voters from raising this type of aggression to the level of parliamentary and governmental majority. Dog doesn't turn into bacon - we know the old saying. There is already a famous paraphrase about the fact that a communist dog does not become a democratic bacon, but a radical dog does not become a moderate bacon, honourable Member. [[There's a lot of information from the benches of the governing parties.]] All we can expect from Jobbik is to continue what he started in 2010. As soon as he came in here, wearing a Guard vest, aggressiveness, incitement to violence or aggression against groups, he will continue to do so. That is why they also protested when he proposed a Vice-President with a rather troubled past in Parliament's vice-presidentship, and that is why everyone is protesting right now. [[Tamás Sneider intervenes. Adam Mirkóczki: And how did you vote...]] He's on the side of sobriety. We hope that the voters will maintain their sobriety, remember what they saw in the previous years, and therefore will not support aggression in Hungary. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-15-4	He also applied for a pre-meeting statement for a fairer Hungary! Mr. Bertalan Tóth, head of the MSZP faction. Here you go.
u2017-05-15-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Three weeks ago in Japan, the Minister for Post-Fukusima Tragedy reconstruction said a stupid, though not funny, sentence. He said it was a good thing the tragedy happened in the northeast and not in Tokyo, because it would have caused a lot more damage there. A day later, this minister apologized and resigned. Meanwhile, in Hungary, Zoltán Balog made a joke at an event about how low the wages are for those working in emergency services. The man who was supposed to maintain and improve health care was making a joke about it, and his job would be to ensure and increase the livelihood of healthcare workers. It's not funny, it's really annoying. [[13.20]] And not only did Zoltán Balog apologize for his sentences, but he continues to destroy health, education and the social sector with complete authority. Ladies and gentlemen, The funnyness of Zoltán Balog is the newer example of the cynical pudgy that we can constantly see from Lázár, who has nothing, is worth as much from János, Antal Rogán, or Lőrinc Mészáros, who is not a stróman. This is the cynical puddle that has resulted in unfair Hungary, where the distribution of public burdens and the redistribution of a common cake is unfair. That is why we say that the budget presented by Fidesz is a budget of injustice and corruption. It's unfair, because Fidesz pays the rich people a tax cut on low-income workers. It is unfair because it gives the rich a tax reduction of HUF 400 billion a year, while abolishing the minimum wage tax exemption and raising VAT to 27 percent. And it is unfair that the tax burden on wage earners and, in particular, smaller workers will be one of the highest in Europe in 2018. These injustices must be eliminated, the financial differences reduced. That's why we say, let's get justice, let the rich pay. Anyone who makes more than a million dollars a month or who has more than a hundred million dollars a month should do more! Put in the small surplus to improve schools, hospitals, or nursing homes. Ladies and gentlemen, Do you know the three areas on which Fidesz has been spending less in proportion since 2010? I'll tell you: education, health care and the social sphere. The result has already been published in the PISA reports, published in deteriorating public health services and in increasing poverty indicators. Fidesz has brought all this together by paying more taxes in terms of GDP over this period since 2010. We've been paying more taxes for seven years; of course, the rich are paying less, while the low-income workers pay more. The money that can be distributed has become more, but the state spends less on its real tasks, as you care more about the stadium, more about propaganda or an unrefundable nuclear power plant. This is the budget of corruption, because the hundreds of billions spent on these projects always somehow land with the acquaintances and relatives of Orbán, Rogan or government members. Let's just say that's enough. There is no cure in stadiums, propaganda does not replace quality education, and the Orbán-Putin pact serves the interests of Russia, which even our grandchildren will pay. Ladies and gentlemen, We reject the social policy of Fidesz, reject the budget of injustice and corruption. We believe that all Hungarians are equal and must have equal opportunities so that the development of talent is not hindered by the poverty of the family. Remember, today, a former Soros Scholarship winner whose first name was Viktor, the social policy of Fidesz, would never have made it to college. Yeah, I'm talking about the Viktor who just treated Erdoğan, Putin, or Lukashenka like a pussy dog. Our goal is to eliminate insecurity and the vulnerability of working people. Our aim is to keep more money in the pockets of small-money workers, public sector workers and ordinary people, and indeed the rich should take on more, because it will make more money for education, health, pensions and poverty reduction. For our future together, for a fairer Hungary! Thank you for your attention.
u2017-05-15-6	I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör.
u2017-05-15-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, I confess to you that I read it these days, I read through the fresh and crisp program of the MSZP, László Botka's program, and there were a lot of thoughts like what you just said. The foreword of this programme states that the aim is to live in a Hungary that we can be proud of, which can give its citizens a job, a livelihood and a safe future. The thing is, we would agree with this goal, by the way. This is why it is incomprehensible that, when the MSZP talks about the country and growth, it is why it is sweeping the results so far and positive measures for the future. Because with regard to health - I would like to tell you that you have kept this from me - in the budget next year, if you vote for it, you will have more than HUF 100 billion available. In the case of education, this will be more than 80 billion. If it were really important for you to have a job, you wouldn't be attacking wage increases. As is known, next year the minimum wage is expected to continue to increase: the minimum wage is 8 and 12 percent, as well as the minimum wage for skilled workers. For the minimum wage for skilled workers, this means that their amount will double next year compared to 2010. So much for who actually helps the skilled workers. If the MSZP were really interested in the growth of families, it would not constantly attack the family support system. This is the system of which the central element is the family tax relief, which has already left over a thousand billion forints in the pocket of families raising children. For the government - I would like to tell you because you did not mention it - strengthening security is also a priority objective. For the MSZP, I don't think so, because in their program, it's like I don't mention it. If someone looks at László Botka's programme, they see that the socialists say almost nothing about one of the European Union's most serious security risks, illegal immigration. There is much to be surprised at this, given that the MSZP said earlier that migration is a false problem, and László Botka himself said that the population of Szeged is not disturbed by migrants. Honourable Congressman, On the posters of the Socialist Party, it is written in laps that justice must be done, rich people must pay. So you often refer to justice. But let me ask you what justice is expected from those who have organized the peace process with billionaires, who refer to the poor, but in the meantime they hide Rolex watches and huge SUVs, and some real estate parts, and what justice can be expected from those who are now able to recommend the tax increase to the Hungarians as a socialist miracle drug. Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, If you want to do justice at all costs, let me suggest that justice be done first and foremost in the Seviép case. 11 billion forints were lost, hundreds of businesses were cut short, and the citizen protesting the case was led in handcuffs, and interested journalists were called Nazis with noble simplicity. This radical left-wing pace indicates that not only their party slogan, their party slogan on the poster, but also their public argument stock is borrowed from the 1950s. By the way, I would like to inform you that László Botka's programme also states that the main players of the left-wing failure in 2010 - i.e. on the left - have to back off. Based on this, Attila Mesterházy, who was a group leader, Zoltán Gőgös, who worked as State Secretary at the time of Ferenc Gyurcsány, or, let's say, István Hiller, whom we remember as Minister of Education. By the way, László Botka, under the terms of László Botka, could not hold office in a Botka government, because he voted three times as Prime Minister of Ferenc Gyurcsány, twice after the autumn speech. So my advice to you is that before other parties or governments are classified, it would be good to have a little order at home, because according to the current program of the PM's candidate for the MSZP, it would not count on the current group of MSZP. For our part, we want endurance to unravel this situation. In the meantime, the government intends to deal with tax cuts and wage increases. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-8	Next up is LMP's deputy leader, Mrs.Erzsébet Schmuck:. The victims of the Orbán system with the title of the people from work. Here you go.
u2017-05-15-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, When the 2018 budget was presented, it was said that this was the budget of people living in work. You couldn't have told a bigger lie, because this budget is a scam for people who work. But who's been fooled? Unfortunately, everyone. Everyone who works in the public service, who works in a factory, a production plant, who works in trade or other services. Their wages have hardly changed in the last seven years, while inflation has been 17 percent. György Matolcsy's salary increased by 150 percent, from HUF 2 million to HUF 5 million. The secretary of state, the government commissioners, the incompetent political appointees, they get huge, million-dollar salaries. And there's money for stadiums and Paks II and similar meaningless giga investments; there's no money for decent living from work. You fooled the public service workers, especially the paramedics. We've rarely seen a scam like this. Since they've been ruling, medical personnel, including paramedics, have been held at a poverty level. When mass emigration forced you to give them something to raise their wages, you still gave them crumbs that barely covered the inflation of recent years. [[13.30]] For the record, the police were humiliated last year when they were late paying them their wages, their allowances. This year, after long negotiations, they were promised a 60-percent increase, and then they submitted the budget, and the minister was able to say with a smile on his face how good, we will raise your wages by 10 percent, instead of the 60 percent promised. No wonder the paramedics are about to strike. You tricked the nurses. Their salary increase has barely exceeded the inflationary losses of many years. But the teachers were also fooled, and that much-promotional career increased both the starting salaries and wages, but the cost of losing allowances and the gross increase in burden. Now, with the outrageous 5% increase, the wage increase process is declared complete, and even a wage ceiling would be introduced. You also do not appreciate social workers who are trying to help the most deprived of society. And they double-crossed most of the civil servants. Since 2008, the civil servant pay table has remained unchanged and has been decreasing steadily. And instead of raising it, they keep doing tricks with partial increases and non-leased bonuses. And the line's not over yet. You also tricked Hungarian small entrepreneurs, who suffer from the otherwise necessary minimum wage increase. The burden of raising the minimum wage was almost entirely tied to their necks. Meanwhile, the multinationals received a 10 percent corporate tax reduction. In particular, small businesses and their employees suffer from the fact that today, it is not work that makes a living, it is not performance that counts, but proximity to Fidesz. In construction, energy, tourism, and I could go on and on about the sectors that Fidesz has stolen, you can only make a living by paying. You tricked young people who want to work, and that's one of their biggest sins: tricking young people. First-time wages are so low that you can't plan to start a family and dream of creating a home. You have even fooled young people who have been lured home by the company with a youthful program. They were promised 3 million HUF support, but they couldn't give it to them after a year, but they made them pay for the maintenance of their companies and even steal their ideas. That was a masterful cynical scam, I'll give you that. Finally, you didn't just fool 80 percent of the working people, who weren't the winners of the single-key tax. They've been waiting ever since the fund-raising of the wealthy by 500 billion a year, and then they've got their money. However, they are waiting for this in vain. The only thing that's going on is the Butcher Lawrence's fortune. That is why it would be immediately necessary to reduce personal income tax in a band, to exempt minimum wage, to increase the average wage by HUF 38 thousand, and to add tax to earners over 1 million per month. And that is why a public wage bill based on minimum wage is needed. Thank you. [[István Ikotity applauds.]]
u2017-05-15-10	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, has the floor again.
u2017-05-15-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. This week the debate on next year's budget really begins, and, as with each budget, it can be read from this that are the main thrusts of government policy. I'm a little sorry you didn't read the communications and the detailed presentation, because if you had read it, you wouldn't have drawn such conclusions. I say this because, contrary to your claims, the 2018 budget will indeed be the budget of the people who live in work. The goal is full employment. You did not mention this, but you know very well that more than 700,000 new jobs have been created in Hungary compared to 2010, which already contradicts the reality of your claims. A large part of these new jobs, most of them, have been created in the market sector. In addition to new jobs, the government also considers it important that it is worth working in Hungary. Therefore, wage-raising programmes will continue in 2018 in the public sector and in the market sector, where the reduction of labour taxes will allow for further wage increases. I do not think you can argue that the minimum wage and the minimum wage have increased by 15 and 25 percent in January this year, followed by an additional increase of 8 and 12 percent next year. If I take it from your words correctly, you're attacking this minimum wage increase. I would like to ask you to give this position first of all to the parties concerned. In any case, the government insists on raising the minimum wage. You know as well as I do that many of the people who live in work raise children. To them, the government intends to continue to provide significant support, from January 2018 the monthly tax relief for families with two children may increase to HUF 35 000 per month. As for health care, you used the word trick. I think that the increase of HUF 207,000 to doctors, the 65 percent increase to nurses, cannot be called a scam under any circumstances; even if we know that there is still much to do. Young married couples can still expect tax benefits. In addition to the above, the government intends to support young people with the home creation programme. Moreover, those who decide to imagine their future after working abroad in Hungary. For this purpose, the HUF 226 billion will be available next year, as planned. As far as the less wealthy are concerned, the government helps them by reducing their costs, by reducing public employment, by raising the minimum wage, as I have already said, and by reducing the VAT on basic foods. It is also irrelevant to you, perhaps not to you, that instead of the previous, less than 100,000, 320,000 people can now eat for free in Hungary, three times a day. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You talk about education and health in this House a lot. This is not a coincidence, by the way, because it is indeed a strategic area. That is why I would like to say to you that next year there will be more than 100 billion more than the current state of health and more than 80 billion more for education. You cannot deny the importance of this. That's what I can say in a nutshell about the work people and next year's budget. I know that in a year's time there will be an election, and then the usual left-wing fight for places will begin, but that is no reason, I think, that you are questioning Hungary's performance; especially at a time when 700 thousand new jobs have been created and the previous 12 percent unemployment has been reduced to less than 5 percent. It also shows that supporting people from work is a matter of honor for the government. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-15-12	Now it's time for Gábor Vona, Deputy Group Leader, on Jobbik's part:. The one Auntie Bözsi didn't have an address for. Here you go.
u2017-05-15-13	Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, If we've hit the Internet search for Auntie Bözsi's name in recent years, we've found a video where a boy named Saniszló takes two hens to Auntie Bözsi's front desk, but she can't find them at home. If we enter the name of Auntie Bözsi into the Internet search today, we will find the Prime Minister's video, where he will visit Auntie Bözsi in the village of Nagygéc. While the first video could be called humorous, it's a tragic and shocking video. Why? Because on one side there is a kind, loving old lady, and on the other side the Prime Minister put his hands in his pockets, avoiding eye contact, wandering around confusedly, acting as if the old lady was a biodecorate. I think that's sad. And do you know, fellow Members, what was the only human moment, human moment, in this six- or seven-minute video by the Prime Minister? Do you know which one it was? When she saw Auntie Bozzi's pig - it was the only moment. By the way, from the whole video, the Prime Minister, if he meets a flesh and blood pensioner, a flesh and blood person, he freezes, he can't behave - which is sad. In such a case, he comes up with the Döbög-mentality, he comes up with the cynicism of the landlord, the practicer comes out of it, and he decides, in the first person, whether or not to give the raise, and then he determines whether to grant this favor to any mortals on earth. [[13.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am seriously asking you, my fellow members of the Government: were you really serious about this video? Did you really think this was a PR video? It's a tragedy video! From these few moments, it is evident that you do not respect the generation of your grandparents and parents. The immeasurable cynicism, arrogance, contempt radiates from this video. We already knew that you have no respect for young people, because in the case of emigration, as you have spoken about this issue, even the Prime Minister, called it an adventure wish, he made that clear. And when we said that, the Prime Minister said that we should respect these young people who leave the country more. Do we respect him more? ! We respect these people, because these people who leave the country today, our childhood friends, our former classmates, our friends, our generation. Our generation is leaving this country because of your politics. Of course we respect them. You should respect young people, just as you should respect the elderly, and not take political duties from their dependent situation, their crippled situation - because that's what they do. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, If Jobbik goes to government in 2018, he will give respect to all Hungarians and all generations [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We saw it last week!]] For young people, for the Middle Ages and for the elderly - for everyone they deserve. Young People Will Be Secured [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We will ensure the possibility of education and further training, and we will solve their housing problems, and, last but not least, we will create a free and democratic Hungary, where it will be worth staying at home for young people, instead of the despotic stench of your governance. [[Lajos Kósa: The ones you sent to hell!]] The Jobbik government will provide legal certainty, predictability and European-wide measurable wages for the Middle Ages. And what are we going to give the elderly? Well, first of all, we're going to give them the respect that your prime minister, the leader of the young Democrats, has failed to give. And this will also have practical results, steps and programme points after 2018. Let me just say a few things. The referendum that you have swept away so that men can retire after 40 years of employment will be granted by the Jobbik government. The second is that the VAT on products belonging to the pension basket will be reduced by Jobbik in order to give these people cheaper access to these products. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What you didn't vote for!]] And third, we will make a differentiated pension increase after 2018 so that the value of smaller and medium-sized pensions will increase much more than the pension of wealthy pensioners. And I'm asking you not to like pensioners before the election, because this is uncredited, and not to measure your performance to Gyurcsány and not to Bajnaja, because this is pathetic. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, you're showing off here, I see you're a little pissed off - it doesn't matter what I ask, because you won't accept it, and it doesn't matter what I ask, because you really only have a year to live. You can pack in a year. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's what you said four years ago!]] And you know why? You know why? Because of two things: on the one hand, because of corruption, because you believe that everything can be stolen, and it lasts forever. You can't steal everything and it won't last forever. But the other thing that's gonna make you fall, and I can see it on your face right now, is the amazing arrogance that you're characterized by. The way Minister Zoltán Balog talks about rescue workers, the way Szilárd Németh talks about a beaten woman, and the way Viktor Orbán humiliates an old woman with his hands in his pocket. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: Look to the left, look around.]] This is a type of arrogance that proves that you have separated from reality; that you are not interested in the problem of the Hungarian people; that you are insensitive to the questions of the Hungarian people. And for that, you will be finished in 2018, and you will fail in 2018. Thank you for your attention. [[A big round of applause from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2017-05-15-14	Before I give the floor to Mr Csaba Dömötör, I would like to ask you this, as a rhetorical question, whether you have seen any reason to yell at me. Because if you don't, please refrain from doing so in the future. Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2017-05-15-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, It is good, however, to debate how decisions are made on pension increases, because there has been a pension increase this year, and there will be a pension increase next year, and there are still a number of other measures that the government would like to express its appreciation for the elderly. As far as young people are concerned, the government helps them, among other things, with a home-building programme, family tax reductions and wage-raising programmes. How the Jobbik appreciates them is what we saw in the hello video. I suggest you all take a look at it. Otherwise, it is not the first time that we have disagreed with Jobbik's point of view, and since this occurs in a series, we have the right to ask what the reason is. Well, it doesn't take a lot of scratching in the past to realize that the reason for the disagreements is that Jobbik turned his back on himself, and when he's reminded of that, he's reacting in an increasingly aggressive way like a wounded pig. We would like to ask you respectfully not to be angry at the mirror or at those who hold the mirror, nor is it our fault that the mirror does not show what the national voters have hoped for. So I don't talk in general, I'll give you an example. A few days ago, you shared a picture on Facebook that said there was no right and no left. In today's interview with the Soros Portal, he is thinking about this, at the heights of Coelho, however, while you know very well that the brochure on Jobbik's website said in veritable sentences that, I quote: "The Jobbik Movement for Hungary aims to promote the self-organization of a clearly right-wing national-Christian-minded society. You, Mr President, will override these sentences 24 hours a day. That's the problem. You, the party advisor and the main sponsor systematically lye a former national party. That's the thing. And you expect the party representatives to watch this every day. We therefore understand why the government has not been supported in the fight against quota and why they are increasingly cooperating with the left, either during the interim elections or here in Parliament. In these circumstances, more and more people conclude that Jobbik has simply ceased to be a national party. If I wanted to express in a figure of speech what was happening, I would say, instead of a Hungarian flag, cat pictures. Your record of glory is very sad, Mr. President. In any case, the nationalisation of the party, the globalisation of the party, has serious consequences in other areas, so that the Mayor of Ozd could not really clarify whether he was actually involved in public procurement, so that the spending would increase by tens of millions of HUF. It would be nice to have this cleared up. I think, House, that this confusion is essentially explained by two things: on the one hand, the party's new owner and, on the other hand, Jobbik's desire for power, and it only exacerbates the situation, that in this great confusion, the rightful Members are becoming more and more often torn by that thread. Dear House, If Jobbik might refer to the fact that it is not the wrong sentences that count, but the wrong sentences that count, then I recommend to everyone that unemployment has increased by 3 percent during the new city leadership in Jobbik's citadel, Tisavasvári, making it three times the Hungarian average. In the meantime, 700,000 new jobs have been created in the country since 2010. So much for governing power and how much Hungarians can count on Jobbik to promote the country's affairs. Mr President, In your interview today, which, if I remember correctly, you gave to the Soros portal, you said it wasn't about where Jobbik came from, it was about where you were headed. By the way, we even agree with that, which is why we're saying that your current path is a soulless slope that's only going downhill. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-16	As the last speaker before the agenda, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kósa, leader of the group, on the part of Fidesz:, Another corruption scandal at the MSZP, or how far does the EMIR's hand reach? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
u2017-05-15-17	Mr. President. Dear House, It is safe to say that the news exploded as a bomb, according to the competent review of the European Union, Hungary will have to pay HUF 18 billion for a series of corruption-suspected public procurements that took place between 2003 and 2008 in the previous EU development cycle. The ominous case relates to the so-called EMIR system, which was the electronic IT system that managed all the financial and IT data of the entire HUF 12 000 billion European development programme. This was played out by the Socialist Party's powerful support to Welt 2000 Ltd. by the Socialist Government, partly by Péter Medgyessy, partly by Ferenc Gyurcsány and Gordon Bajnai, and with the full support of the Socialist Group. I can safely say that with your full support, because there have been countless warnings not only from the Union but also from the opposition to the socialist government that this procurement is completely irregular. In fact, they did not even conduct public procurement, they simply entrusted this more than 18 billion-dollar business to Welt Kft., the owner of which was a socialist municipal representative in the capital, the leaders of which were tied to the Socialist Party with a thousand threads; and to make the picture complete and round, the legal predecessor of the National Development Agency was directed at Dobrev Kla at this time. [[13.50]] He was the vice-president, but we know he kept this question entirely with him from the documents and records, so it could be that in any case they were not regular. In fact, the case is more than a suspicion of corruption, because when such a task is assigned to a private decision without any competition, it cannot be explained by anything other than thick and face-toasting corruption. This case, by the way, enriches with your 18 billion cases related to the amazing, unprecedented scandal and corruption of the Socialist Party. Typically, the socialists are silent on this issue, they do not comment, they are not secluded, and I can safely say that in this case, all socialist MEPs who, despite opposition interviews on this issue, supported the government's smearful, avoidative response and did not allow at least the facts to be revealed to a parliamentary committee of inquiry or to the Parliament's Economic Committee. Given that László Botka extends from Sándor Burány to István Hiller - everyone, make no mistake; it may be unfair to highlight some names from this circle - it is everyone's responsibility that this 18 billion forint corruption case remains covered, so it is possible to suggest to the socialists that, before any corruption issue is raised, as in connection with the metro investment, a detailed, exploratory confession should be made here. How is it possible that Welt 2000 Kft. was implemented under such a corruption mandate. assignment? How is it possible that all existing warnings have been swept aside at this time? And how is it possible that in such a corruption case, all the data of HUF 12,000 billion of European Union development has been transferred through an ft that was not a state, and even this ft. - total absurdity - has been returned even to the Hungarian state's IT development opportunity? In English, they even took away the possibility that the state could improve this system. This is why we think that the socialists can only give a detailed, exploratory statement on corruption, and if they take Botka's speech a little seriously, then the full socialist faction will stand up, pick up its hat, take note, along with László Botka, and say that for our part - as at the time of the SZDSZ - we cannot start the elections in 2018, because we do not have a moral or moral basis for that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-18	Nándor Csepreghy has the floor.
u2017-05-15-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Chief of Staff, The question is indeed topical, because although the socialists' governance ended seven years ago, we see today that almost all the penalties imposed on Hungary from Brussels are linked to corruption cases before 2010. The corruption case of Metro 4 has recently been published, where the European Commission states no less than that during the period related to the Prime Ministership of the Socialist Party, Ferenc Gyurcsány, Gordon Bajnai and Péter Medgyessy, various companies, leaders of state companies, combined with market companies, damaged Hungarian taxpayers by HUF 166 billion. In this case, we are talking about the fact that the IT system, which was developed in 2003-2004 and essentially managed the entire system of use of EU funds during the 2007-14 tender period, was built through a friendly company, essentially a money channel that hit the socialists in the same direction, since while HUF 18 billion was paid for the construction of this system, they caused further HUF 18 billion damage to Hungarian taxpayers, as this is what Brussels wants from Hungary as punishment. It is interesting to hear this when we regularly meet on behalf of left-wing representatives on the charge of nepotism, as how they would remove the cross water from any government official if we saw what was part of the practical operation during the Prime Ministership of Gyurcsány. At the time when Ferenc Gyurcsány became a consultant to Péter Medgyessy and later became his sports minister, Klára Dobrev, his wife, was acting as the Deputy Chairman of the European Union Development Agency, not only as Vice-President, but also as specifically responsible for the construction of the IT system, which today wants to punish Brussels Hungary because of the irregularities and corruption of the IT system. It is not irrelevant in this case that during the same period one of the leaders of the National Development Agency was Péter Heil, the Peter Heil, one of the leading advisors of Altus today. And if we step out of this picture a little bit, it is another sleek situation that, while the corruption of the current leaders of Altus want to punish Hungary for 18 billion forints in Brussels, the same European Commission gives the same company a multibillion forints commission, among other things, to monitor the system of use of EU funds in Hungary and Central and Eastern Europe. Therefore, I would like to propose to the left, suffering or struggling in the casting of the Prime Minister-designate, that when they are fighting each other at the division of positions, they should take a few minutes to discuss it among themselves, because they are all sitting at a table, saying that the 18 billion HUF damage they have done to Hungarian taxpayers is how, from what source and in what proportion I would like to repay. It is clear that seven years has not been enough to forget this matter in Brussels, despite having excellent relations there; and now, after seven years of Fidesz governance, Hungary is faced with a fine whose sole and sole responsibilities are sitting in today's opposition benches. Between 2003-2008, the former head of the NFÜ, the left-wing leaders before 2010, concluded eight contracts with Welt 2000 Kft. With Welt 2000 Kft., a company that, despite the fact that the Hungarian State had this knowledge in part, was only given the opportunity to develop the IT system managing the use of the country's development resources, and received not only this development work from the NFÜ led by Dobrev Klára, but also the possibility of the exclusivity of further development. Therefore, when Hungary has to pay a fine of HUF 18 billion to Brussels, I think it is right that any left-wing politician who today talks about the need for a change of government looks deep in the mirror and asks his former Prime Minister or fellow party how many billion HUF of the dividend taken from Altus would he like to offer to relieve Hungarian taxpayers. Thank you, Mr. President, for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-20	Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2017-05-15-21	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik. On Tuesday, the following members applied for the speech before the agenda: László Teleki, MSZP; Imre Vejkey, KDNP; Gergely Gulyás, Fidesz; Loránt Hegedűs, Jobbik; Bernadett Szél, LMP. On Wednesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik. On Thursday he applied for a speech after the agenda: István Szávay, Jobbik. No one came forward to speak after the agenda on Friday.
u2017-05-15-22	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. We now decide to negotiate four proposals in a time frame. Parliamentary resolution on certain house rules 37. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may decide to negotiate certain items of the agenda in a time-frame. The motion put forward by the President initiates the adoption of the T/15381 on Hungary's central budget for 2018. The Parliament will discuss the number of proposals within a 30-hour time frame. [[14.00]] The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. I would like to inform you that the resolution house rule is 37. Paragraph 3 and 4 of the General Budget Bill provides that there is no possibility of doubling the timeframes when negotiating the draft law. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the motion to split the time frame.
u2017-05-15-23	Dear Parliament, The proposed timeframe is divided into 617 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 335 minutes for the MSZP Group, 309 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 283 minutes for the KDNP Group, 183 minutes for the LMP Group and 73 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 30-30 minutes lead speakers. Opportunity of the representatives of the European Parliament in Hungary to speak in the general debate in the House Rule 37. § 2 (2) (h) if you have applied for a speech by the head of the group: against the time frame of the group; if you have applied directly: in addition to the 30-hour time frame, an independent representative is entitled to a seven-minute time frame each. In response to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, the House Rule 37 shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 37. Article 2 (2) (g) allows a total of 60 minutes, which is not included in the time frame.
u2017-05-15-24	Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. So I ask this House whether it agrees that we are discussing this proposal within a 30-hour timeframe. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I note that the House supported the proposal for a time frame by 125 votes in favour, 27 against and without abstentions. The motion put forward by the President initiates the T/15429 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2018 The Parliament will discuss the number of proposals in a five-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to explain this.
u2017-05-15-25	Dear Parliament, The proposed five-hour timeframe is divided into 103 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 56 minutes for the MSZP Group, 51 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 47 minutes for the KDNP Group, 31 minutes for the LMP Group and 12 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 20-20 minutes lead speakers. In response to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, the House Rule 37 shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 37. Article 2 (2) (g) allows a total of 20 minutes, which does not include the time frame.
u2017-05-15-26	Dear House, It is now time for a decision to be taken again. I am asking the House if it agrees that the proposal will be discussed within a five-hour timeframe. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the motion for a time-frame hearing was supported by 125 votes in favour, 28 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, The motion put forward by the President initiates T/15428 amending certain tax laws and other related laws. The Parliament will discuss the number of proposals in a five-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain this.
u2017-05-15-27	Dear Parliament, The proposed five-hour timeframe is divided into 103 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 56 minutes for the MSZP Group, 51 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 47 minutes for the KDNP Group, 31 minutes for the LMP Group and 12 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 20-20 minutes lead speakers. In response to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, the House Rule 37 shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 37. Article 2 (2) (g) allows a total of 20 minutes, which does not include the time frame.
u2017-05-15-28	Dear Parliament, It is now time for a decision to be made again. I am asking this House whether it agrees that the proposal will be discussed within a five-hour timeframe. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House supported the motion for a time frame by 124 votes in favour, 29 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, The motion put forward by the President initiates the initiative of the V/15303 on the steps necessary for the economic and social uplifting of the Hungarian countryside. The Parliament will discuss the number of proposals in a four-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. At the request of the Fidesz, MSZP, Jobbik and LMP groups, house rules are 37. Paragraph 4 states that the time frame available to the political group will be doubled in the event of the adoption of a time-frame negotiation. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the motion to split the time frame.
u2017-05-15-29	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the proposed timeframe, given the timeframes, is as follows: 82 minutes for the Fidesz Group, with a doubling of which in total 164 minutes; 45 minutes for the MSZP Group, with a doubling of which a total of 90 minutes; 41 minutes for the Jobbik Group, with a doubling of which it initiated, i.e. 82 minutes; 38 minutes for the KDNP Group; 24 minutes for the LMP Group, with a doubling of which a total of 48 minutes; and 10 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2017-05-15-30	Ladies and gentlemen, It's time for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that the presentation will be discussed in a time frame modified by the notary, as requested by Fidesz, MSZP, Jobbik and LMP. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The motion for a time frame was supported by 130 votes in favour, 26 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, At last week's meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, T/15372 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the food chain. Rule 70 of the House Rule for bill No. T/15372/3 tabled an over-extensive amendment pursuant to § 1 (1) of the Act. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The house rules are 70. § 2 states that Parliament decides without discussion that the extension of the amendment is related to the content of a duly amended proposal or to the House Rule 44. If it is clearly necessary to enforce the criteria set out in paragraph 1 of Section 1. Prior to the decision, the rapporteur for the Committee for the Overextensive Amendment and the rapporteur for the Minority Opinion drawn up in the Committee may address the matter within a time frame of four minutes. The rapporteur may then state his position within a two-minute time frame. Do you wish to take advantage of this opportunity? [[For signal:]] First, I give the floor to István Horváth, rapporteur for the Committee on Agriculture.
u2017-05-15-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, On 9 May, the Committee on Agriculture T/15372/3. He submitted an amendment to the Food Chain Safety Bill on which the vote will soon be held. The amendment is considered to be an over-extension under the house rules, as it opens a law which was not part of the original bill. The expansive proposal concerns the identification methods replacing the identification mark and the use of the identification codes of 1996 XX. It seeks to amend the law. The amendment provides a legal opportunity to establish a data link between the food chain security information system or, in short, the FELIR and other identity databases. In order to ensure this technical provision, it is necessary to amend this law. The Food Chain Safety Act 38/B. Paragraph 2a of Article 2a states that the activities covered by the law may only be carried out by a person who has a FELIR identifier. [[14.10]] In order to be able to verify compliance with these provisions of the Law, there is a need to establish a data link between the FELIR database and other identification databases, it is also necessary to regulate ways to establish and terminate the link, and therefore, in substance, it is necessary to amend it. The amendment is linked to the Food Chain Safety Bill. In accordance with the house rules, we will decide on this. I ask with respect for this House's support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-32	Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, is now in the name of the author.
u2017-05-15-33	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would just like to say that since the amendment tabled by the Committee on Agriculture facilitates the electronic administration of customers, accelerates procedures and reduces the administrative burden if the Parliament decides that the government will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-15-34	Thank you. Dear House, So now it's time to make a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament that the house rules are 70. § 2 states whether T/15372/3. The regularity of the over-extensive amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] In accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article, the Commission concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and with Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union Please vote. (Vote.) The House expressed its support for this proposal by 117 votes in favour, 11 against and 20 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Since the Parliament has established the regularity of the expanding amendment proposal, the House Rule 70. Pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section 3, the general debate on this amendment is reopened. I would like to inform you that an amendment to the proposal for an amendment which is duly overextensive can be tabled by its representatives until the debate is over. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the amendments to the agenda. The Fidesz Group has proposed that T/15372 on the amendment of certain food chain legislation. The proposal for an over-extensive amendment to the legislative proposal No 1 shall be held as the last item on the agenda until the closure of the general debate on Thursday. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group also proposes that the meeting be held on Wednesday at 8 a.m. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at our meeting starting today, no decisions will be taken in the disciplinary matters of the representatives of the MSZP, given that Members have not submitted the Parliament Act 51/A until the beginning of the meeting. Applications pursuant to paragraph 9 of Section 1. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it invites the designated Economic Committee to discuss the activities of the Public Procurement Authority during the period 1 January to 31 December 2016 B/15539. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the Parliament has asked the designated committee to take its decision by 111 votes in favour, 33 against and without abstentions. Dear House, A decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. Now, at 2:14 p.m., we move on to interpellation and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, László Szakács, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources. It's an address. The congressman has the floor.
u2017-05-15-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, With the prospect of mass resignations, the government's budget for 2018 was expressed by paramedics and paramedics. It has become clear that the government has fooled them badly, and they will receive roughly one fifth of the wage increase you have promised them, and yet it is a profession where there are very serious shortcomings. There are counties where they can't operate an ambulance, they can't. After that, you led them, these underpaid workers, to a large extent - to quote the Minister: brutally - to increase their wages, and finally to get what they deserve and then to face reality. They didn't, they probably wouldn't, but they believed in you, they believed you, and they didn't misunderstand you, because you guys kept saying you'd get this raise at a rural campaign series in the country. Of course, he finds that lawyers should be asked to pay as little as possible in malpractice cases, in Hungarian, for patients who have been ill, not to pay compensation, but for patients to get to the hospital, there is less money. In the same way, the representation of patients' rights does not stand so well on this issue, although the price of this is also paid by those who remain in Hungary, doctors, paramedics, nurses, who perform very hard, put themselves there every day, take over their strength, there are very few, there are a lot of people to care for, and they are not overpaid, Minister. Compared to this, we now see promises falling apart, and we see trade unions protesting. On the other hand, this is also paid by the Hungarian people, who pay for all the public spaces you have imposed, and there is now almost no connection between the services you receive, how much public space you pay and what service you receive. The Hungarian people pay for it, and in fact they can only trust that they got sick in a county where the ambulance goes, where they can take them to a hospital, where there may be enough disinfectants in the hospital, where they won't get any kind of hospital infection, and there may even be a nurse who will nurse them. Hungarians deserve much more than that, I think, and the more the paramedics deserve. Every year, Minister, every year there is a debate here at the EMMI budget that even the Olympic movement receives more than the National Rescue Service. This is a debate every year. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] That's why I'm asking the minister, why don't you pay the paramedics...
u2017-05-15-36	You should have asked me that first, Congressman, but I'll give you the opportunity, however. Here you go.
u2017-05-15-37	Why didn't they pay the paramedics' wages? Don't you feel responsible, Minister? And what's not a big price to pay for that anymore? Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you very much for your patience.
u2017-05-15-38	I give the floor to Minister Zoltán Balog. Here you go.
u2017-05-15-39	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, It was indeed interesting to hear this speech from a representative of a party whose name was the introduction of paid health care and the attempt to do so, which we managed to prevent in 2008. Their most memorable medical development was the introduction of safes, the doors of which are still hanging in the wards. The text and findings of your interpellation are not in the context of reality, you are misleading not only the paramedics, but also the public. Today there is an ambulance in all counties in Hungary, there is an ambulance, and the ambulance belongs to a hospital. It's time to visit a county hospital or two. [[Dr. István Józsa: I had it!]] to see what improvements have been made since 2010. As far as the paramedics are concerned, in the development of the operation of the National Rescue Service, we have just recently made a step forward in the worthy appreciation of the rescue workers. This is not the first step, this is the second step, because the health wage increase has already applied to them, and it is not the last step, because we will move on: next year the government will add not only 10 per cent, but plus 10 per cent to the wage increase, which is planned and planned not only in health care. This means that, on average, the wages of paramedics will increase by 67 percent in three years, and this will otherwise be around 80 percent in 2019 at a new rate, so it is not true in this respect either. The planned additional resource, the HUF 4 billion, will be added to the 10 percent wage increase by the National Rescue Service employees, which, by the way, resulted in 8 percent and 12 percent respectively. As far as the budget is concerned, you're talking about the EMMI budget. I don't know if you've seen the budget, 100 billion forints more funding for health care, nearly 40 billion forints for the rescue; in 2010, when you were forced to leave, it was HUF 22.5 billion, only with an extra HUF 7 billion planned for the budget compared to this year. I don't know what kind of decline you're talking about. [[14.20]] If I remember correctly, between 2006 and 2010, you reduced by 5.2 percent, and did not increase the support of the National Rescue Service. We have added an extra 76 percent since 2010. The paramedic career involves wages, work clothes - this is the next step - and the state of ambulances, and then I'll say a few more words about that and it's a matter of rescue stations. Since 2010, 23 new rescue stations have been built. 37 percent of the rescue stations have been renewed. Nearly 500 new ambulances have been put on the market, which is 60 percent of the running ambulances, and this year we will get more 193 ambulances. If that's done, we've replaced all the case and attack cars. From the rescue stations, let me ask you, you were the deputy mayor of Komló until 2010: when did the hop rescue station be renewed? After 2010, when you were no longer a deputy mayor, the Fidesz-KDNP government renewed it. [[Noise in the pro-government benches.]] You're talking about lawyers. I have to tell you that a lawyer who pretends to be a union leader, by the way, and talks about a strike, is a lawyer who pays one and a half million forints each to paramedics who are dragged into a losing lawsuit, so much attention can be paid to him. What I can tell you is that the matter of emergency services is personal to me, and I could say it's a family matter. I have a family reason for that. My family has made a sacrifice in this matter that I do not wish on anyone. We had to do this. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I ask you not to interfere with this matter with various party political rumbles, but to cooperate in the renewal of the National Rescue Service. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-15-40	I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2017-05-15-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, That's how you operate: after a little personal action, you ask for cooperation quickly. [[Zoltán Balog: I said facts.]] Health care is actually paying right now. In fact, healthcare is now paying: Hungarians pay more in paying health care than the European average, because they do not want to use public healthcare because of the quality of those who can. This is the result of your government. I understand that the union manager says something different than the head of work, that's what it is. You're attacking the union leader, of course. Then why is there going to be a protest if they get everything? Then I think that Minister must go to this demonstration, not with a tasteless joke like the last time he went to the paramedics, no matter how personal it is, but without a tasteless joke, Minister, and calm them down. I don't accept the answer. Thank you.
u2017-05-15-42	I ask the House whether it accepts the Minister's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 108 votes to 29, with one abstention. Dear Parliament, Ádám Mirkóczki, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior: "Do they finally confess that they have been lying for 27 years! ? It's an address. The congressman has the floor.
u2017-05-15-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, 27 years after the so-called regime change and 27 years after the hoped political, moral, public cleansing, we are still well in the same anti-communist claim situation as in 1990. There are neither lists of agents, there is no access to the various documents of the state security past, at least we cannot have access to them in the way that everyone would like it to be, and there is no larceny in the bud, i.e. purification. Of course, you can point your finger at anyone and start by saying what you can't. I would like to make it clear that you have been a faction in the Parliament of the Hungarian Parliament for 27 years, and you have been ruling for 11 years. They do this, of course, by using the greatest anti-communist revolutions in rhetoric and words, and doing everything they can to ensure that your civil, conservative, Christian values are shown and that in anti-communism virtually everyone is preceded. On the other hand, you're actually doing everything you can to make sure that nothing ever gets out. That's what your proposal on all kinds of half-solutions is about, and that's what all appearances are all about. You have created the so-called National Remembrance Committee, which is, in fact, a dungeon that provides your political will, that is to say, that no one has access to any relevant information. They're lying when you claim that all this was made for a Polish sample. I would also like to draw attention here to the fact that the Polish Institute of National Remembrance is only and exclusively in its name similar to the Hungarian legislation, in fact we would be happy if we had only been able to copy the Polish sample as much as you think or claim. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You still have not noticed that of the countries of the former KGST and Warsaw Treaty, we are the only ones who are indebted to these elementary system changes. We are laughing around Slovakia, Romania, so that I do not mention Poland, for example. And the saddest part is that on October 23rd and November 4th of every year, you are up to millions of dollars, and across the country, when you look at the sights, you are standing on a billion-dollar stage and speaking very nice anti-communist speeches, but in fact, you do not realize that this is the best way to humiliate victims and crippled families. After all, with the political demands and demands that really wouldn't cost ten pennies, with the moral expectations that would actually end the change of regime, they did nothing in substance. That is why I ask - since we no longer expect anything from you - that [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Will they finally admit that they've been lying for 27 years. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-15-44	Secretary of State Károly Kontrat has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-15-45	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to reject the insulting words of the Member in which he accused the Government, the pro-government Members, of an unworthy lie, and also accused the National Remembrance Committee. I reject these statements, and I also say that I should answer your question, that we did not lie, that we are not lying now. It is precisely the Fidesz-KDNP government that, after the inaction of the Socialist Government, takes substantial steps to resolve this very important issue. A report by the National Remembrance Committee and the Historical Archives of the State Security Services expert group on the examination of data on magnetic tapes held by state security bodies prior to 1990 has been prepared. The document is public and can be read in full on the Committee's website since 6 March. The working group examined the structure, completeness and historical value of the data content recorded on magnetic tapes managed by the Constitutional Protection Office. Following the completion of the analysis, the Committee initiated the transfer of magnetic tapes from the Constitutional Protection Office to the Historical Archives of the State Security Services after the amendment of the relevant legislation. The Government discussed the report of the National Remembrance Committee at its meeting on 8 March 2017. He made a decision on this and fulfilled all the requests contained therein, and handed the magnetic tapes over to the Historical Archives. The archives are open, accessible by anyone, so the Member or his faction can be consulted on these issues at any time. Moreover, the expert working group is currently carrying out a review of the classified information contained in the registers, thus creating as complete as possible access rights for citizens and thus the possibility of historical research. The Joint Working Group, formed from the members of the Committee and from the staff of the Archives, operates according to the working schedule agreed with the Ministry of Interior, and started processing magnetic tapes as early as September 2015. On the basis of the government decision on this matter, classified information generated by the Ministry of Interior prior to the change of regime shall be transmitted to the archives by 30 June 2017. The data file to be transferred shall be contained in the operation register..G.,.H., network records, and.K. records, central counter-intelligence repository. The transfer of secret service media under the management of the Constitutional Protection Office shall take place by 1 July 2017. [[14.30]] In order to carry out the increased tasks of the Archives, the necessary conditions should be established by 30 June and a review of the classification of data content stored on secret service media by 30 June 2018. Honourable Congressman, There will be no secrets, take this opportunity, and I ask you to accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-46	I will ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2017-05-15-47	Of course, this answer cannot be accepted, not even because you know it, and we all know exactly who dealt with the subject, that everything that researchers have at all access to is highly anonymized, censored, complete pages and cartons are missing from it, so we can no longer talk about the whole public. Your anti-communism, by the way, is perfectly characterised by the fact that in recent days another scandal has highlighted this, specifically as regards the work of the former head of the Ecumenical Relief Organization - László Lehel - who, of course, denied everything and then admitted that he was in fact III/III and was the leader of Hungary's largest relief organization, 27 years after the change of regime. That's the problem. But it's also a problem that nothing can ever be found out about anyone. For example, if anyone would like to know anything about us, we would find out how public it is. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-15-48	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the House whether it accepts the reply of the Secretary of State. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 106 votes to 27, with no abstentions. Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interview to the Minister of National Economy:. Why are not the winners of the budget? It's an address. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-05-15-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Next year's budget is not going to be a budget for people living in work, as the government has said. You could call it that if work could actually make a living. The government has already come to the point of recognition to at least acknowledge that Hungarian wages are bad at the level of words. On the other hand, when we look at how much this recognition returns to next year's budget, we see that what the government calls a wage increase is only a grating of wages; it is hardly enough to make a living, to keep young people at home, to stop emigration. They're continuing the spoiled pay-raise program. This year's experience has shown that the last few years are nothing, take a higher minimum wage increase compared to its well-equipped increases, smaller companies could survive with little or only certain avoidance techniques. For example, the worker was reported for less hours of work or transferred to a job that was not qualified on paper. We also asked trade unions what effect the minimum wage increase had on the labour market, and they said that, in addition to bringing small and medium-sized enterprises to the brink of bankruptcy, it also caused huge wage tensions. The general wage increase was cancelled. There's no money left to raise the salary of the lowest wage earners. In the 2018 budget, the government wants to go further on this path, again ignoring the damage it causes. According to the LMP, it would be possible to talk about the budget of workers if, instead of raising wages with small businesses, net wages were increased by reducing taxes, and not just at the minimum wage level. We have concrete proposals for this. The bar tax reduction and the tax-free minimum wage increase the minimum wage by HUF 33 000 from the current net HUF 85 000 next year. What you're giving the minimum wage people next year is just 7,000 forints. At the level of the guaranteed minimum wage, the tax reduction would increase the net wage by HUF 42,000, i.e. the current net wage would be HUF 149 thousand instead of HUF 107 thousand. At the average wage level, earnings would increase by HUF 30 000 net, without increasing the burden on businesses. In addition, the public sector should be waged, so after ten years. Wage tensions in the public sector are unbearable. Mr. Secretary. When are you guys gonna get ready for a real raise? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-05-15-50	I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2017-05-15-51	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you look back a year and a half and look at the process of the past period, or take into account November 2016, there was a negotiation that led to the demands that you have made as a process, since tax reductions were discussed in that agreement, and a wage increase was discussed in that agreement. I would like to mention this in the other part of my answers that if you had forgotten, I would remind you that the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage at that series of negotiations in November was not only a rise in wages, not just a rise in wages for these categories, but a significant reduction in taxes, which means that what you have expressed as a wish, a request and a question will be fulfilled in your process. Of course, the interpretation of a budget can be viewed in many ways and can be described in many ways, but I would like to say that we continue to hold that the budget of people from work is, among other things, this budget. Among other things, because the economy continues to grow. In the following year, if we look at this year's positive prospects and this happens, the economy will rise by more than 4 per cent, and the process that has been characterised as a process in the last 6-7 years - and the increase in the number of people employed by 700 thousand people means that we can have a significant positive process - will continue, as the number of people employed has increased by around 700 thousand since 2010. So it can be said that the government has always cared about workers, and has kept employment in mind, so that as many people can make a living from their work, we can employ as many people in the labour market as possible. I would also like to mention that we want to transfer more and more people from public employment, and the budget is also a source of funding. I would mention that in 2018, wages will continue to rise in the same way as in the last 3-4 years, with a significant increase in wages, not only nominally, but also in real terms. To this end, as I mentioned, the tax burden on wages has been reduced. I would like to remind you that this year the burden on wages will be reduced by 5 percentage points, by 2 percentage points the following year and, if certain conditions are met, the additional tax burden on wages will be reduced by 2-2-2 percentage points in the following four years. What if it's not a tax reduction? What if this does not help to keep workers' work or to increase employment? It also helps employers to increase wages to a greater extent, since they are less burdened by tax requirements. And that it has an impact, I would like to mention to you that, in the first two months of this year, wages increased on average by 9.2 percent, including 14.5 percent for companies under 50, 11.8 percent for 50-250 people and 6.5 percent for people over 250. What is it, Congresswoman, if it is not a budget for the interests of workers? What if it's not a wage increase? Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-52	I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the answer.
u2017-05-15-53	I can't accept the answer. Mr Secretary, we are talking about, in effect, a poorly implemented minimum wage increase and a wage increase. LMP has been saying for a few years that they are low, wages are bad, we need a general wage increase. You are raising the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage by simply destroying small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. In practice, not only society is being torn apart, but also the economy is being torn apart, less and less and more small and medium-sized enterprises with very serious difficulties. Small and medium-sized enterprises will no longer be able to manage the second phase of the minimum wage increase, they will be tricked, you will force them to play tricks; they will trick by assigning people to different jobs. [[14.40]] As an example, a small and medium-sized enterprise has said that in a full-scale small plant, skilled workers have been reassigned or hired in one working hour per week. This is not good, and this needs to be changed, and a general wage increase must be made!
u2017-05-15-54	The congresswoman did not accept the answer. I ask the House whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 106 votes to 23, with no abstentions. István Horváth, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:.. What are the percentages? It's an address. The congressman has the floor.
u2017-05-15-55	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Food VAT cuts in previous years' budgets have been ongoing. We remember: first live pigs and half-carcases, then live and slaughtered cattle, later sheep and goats, and the primary meat materials from them received a reduced VAT rate. These steps have clearly contributed to the whitening of sectors. In the last 2-3 years, steps have also been taken to clearly reduce consumer prices. Here we reduced the VAT on certain finished products. As a result, consumers can obtain pork, poultrymeat, milk and eggs much cheaper than before. It can be seen that the government has been trying to reduce the burden on basic foods with recent thoughtful steps, both in order to stabilise the sectors concerned and in order to safeguard the wallets of Hungarian families. In the Medgyessy-Gyurcsány-Bajnai-era, we have not even seen a trace of such measures. During the left-colored steering, there was not a single product with a VAT rate of 5%. There has been no attempt, let alone to support or save certain sectors of the food industry. And let us not talk about protecting consumers from high prices. Now I won't say it again and I won't say it slowly, because everyone understands. This year's customary amendment of tax laws in relation to the budget reduces the overall turnover tax on new product products to 5%. Next year, the VAT on fresh, chilled or frozen fish and certain products made from fish will be reduced. Obviously, the aim is to boost the much mentioned low domestic consumption of fish, thereby increasing the turnover of the domestic fish sector and, last but not least, to support the healthy diet of the population, which, I believe, can be fully agreed, regardless of party standing. Personally, I would like to propose further ways to reduce the VAT on intermediate products. For example, the sales tax on animal feed and the general sales tax on offal, meat by-products and pig fat. But, of course, we must take into account the burden-bearing capacity of the budget, and we must remain strict about keeping the budget deficit within 3 per cent. With respect to the actions already taken and planned, I would like to ask the Secretary of State: what are the experiences of the VAT reduction steps so far? Is the price reduction impact of previous reductions sustainable? What is the impact of tax reductions on the sectors concerned? Does consumption data show the impact of VAT reductions? What does the wallet expect with regard to new proposals? What professional decisions justified the current planned VAT reduction steps? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-15-56	Mr. Róbert Zsigó, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2017-05-15-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, For the sake of the development of the most important sectors of agriculture and for consumers, it is essential to reduce the overall turnover tax on certain foodstuffs. This is a complex process that is expected primarily to lead to market purification and increasing consumption. The first step was to reduce the VAT on live and half pigs in 2014, and this resulted in a positive result, a whitening of the market, an increase in the purchase of live pigs, an increase in the turnover of breeding animals, an increase in the number of pig farmers, and a virtually loss of worrying black economy at the level of raw material production. The government continued to reduce the VAT, and from 1 January 2015 the VAT on intermediate products of cattle and sheep fell to 5 percent, and from 1 January 2016, as you said, the VAT on pig meat fell to 5 percent. The latter has been achieved to cover the whole pig line and this reduction also directly affects consumers. From 1 January 2017, the VAT on fresh milk, poultrymeat and eggs decreased by 5%. Dear Parliament, The reduction of the VAT on pig meat has met legislative and sectoral requirements based on the experience of the first half of the year. As the cost of production is also included in the consumer price, the price of raw materials increased from the waist of last year also resulted in all increases, but the price of the products under investigation was still lower on an annual basis than in December 2015. Without VAT reductions, consumers would have met higher prices in stores, so a family of 4 could save up to HUF 15,000 a year. Dear Parliament, The first experience with the VAT reduction that entered into force on 1 January this year is encouraging. There is an increase in the turnover of the products affected by the reduction, which is also noticeable in the performance of the sector concerned. The decisive retail chains also applied the impact of VAT reductions in their consumer prices. From 1 January 2018, the VAT on live fish and fish meat will be reduced to 5 percent, with an important aspect of increasing the availability of healthy food, increasing domestic fish consumption and bringing domestic fish consumption closer to the European average. No less important is the nearly ten thousand forints that remain with an average four-person family each year, raising the savings to 40-50 thousand forints in total for families as a result of the tax cuts to come. Honourable Congressman, The government will continue its work taking into account the burden-bearing capacity of the economy and the budget. We plan to include additional products in VAT reductions after 2018, but it is still early to talk about which products they will be. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for your attention and for accepting my reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-15-58	I shall give the floor once again to the Member for a return answer.
u2017-05-15-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I am pleased to hear that, thanks to continued control, real experience has shown that the VAT reduction decisions that we have taken together in recent years have fulfilled the expectations that have been fulfilled. I agree, indeed, in order to reduce VAT, it takes two things: political courage and economic strength. Obviously, political courage is constantly present in the Fidesz-KDNP government, and economic strength has been in place over the past few years thanks to the performance of the economy. It is therefore necessary to introduce additional VAT reductions. I think that we are on the right track if we first put forward proposals for reducing VAT on intermediate products, because it has no direct budgetary impact. But obviously the goal is to make the economy white, and the goal is to keep as much money as possible in consumers' pockets. Overall, I was pleased to hear the Secretary of State's reply and, of course, I accept it. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-15-60	Dear House, Mr István Tukacs, MSZP representative, who submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior, is now following up on what do you do against the robbers of public workers? It's an address. Before I give the floor to the congressman, I would like to draw your attention to the House Rule 123. § 2 which states that the interpellation declared cannot contain a new fact which has not been included in the written text of the interpellation. A derogation can only be made with the prior consent of the interpelled. I gave this preliminary warning because your written interpellation was rather short-spoken. So, if you wish to take advantage of the three-minute time frame, please take care of this house rule provision. Here you go.
u2017-05-15-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I started my interpellation in writing by the fact that a small village of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, Túrrichse, was famous for a hideous cause. The mayor had creative ideas, and he didn't pay public workers' wages in cash, but in vouchers made by you. This idea is not unprecedented, since unfortunately, there have been similar or almost similar cases in some places in the county. He did this to all those who are already vulnerable because they do not get a good job and are forced to make a living with little money. [[14.50]] Right now, I understand there's an investigation into the mayor as well as an investigation into the mayor of some other settlements. I don't have to tell you that this situation the mayor has created has abused the vulnerable situation of these poor people. In parentheses, I'm telling you, the case came up with parents who couldn't buy shoes for the kid because they didn't have cash, and the store didn't have shoes. I would therefore like to ask, Mr State Secretary, that, in addition to the fact that, of course, you will have to be sorry about the case, what you want to do, because you have a job for the government, who can submit laws to Parliament, and it is also a matter for this House to establish rules. What do you want to do about it, I ask, to prevent what happened in this village from happening? In the village, in Hungary, where most villages live in semi-feudal conditions, if there are not at least ten, twenty or thirty jobs. And what's on your mind? Rules that provide guarantees guarantee that such cases will not occur. These rules must severely sanction those who break it, namely mayors or mayor officials. And it has to be a deterrent so they can't do it to people who have just enough problems without it. Therefore, honourable House, ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to the Government, with the question of making a rule, to prevent such unworthy, humiliating, vile stories. I believe, Mr Secretary, that if this issue is not justified, then you will obviously not be talking about specific matters. However, I would like you to talk about concrete government plans, government measures, government bill proposals in your response. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity, and thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the floor.
u2017-05-15-62	I give Mr Tibor Pogácsás the opportunity to respond. Here you go.
u2017-05-15-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, has tried to fulfil the task and has also tried to discuss the three minutes in relation to the brief written text. But during these three minutes, while the Member spoke about this case, he demonstrated that he did not know or want to know the legislation, because I think, Mr President, it is a fact you know that the payment of wages is also an obligation, duty and responsibility of the employer. The detailed rules of this are laid down in the Labour Code. This is also true for those employed in public employment, and accordingly, even under the Labour Code, the wages must be paid in cash or by reference to the account number provided by the employee. Honourable Congressman, Here, he spoke in general about the fact that abuse and similar abuses have occurred in several places. I would like to inform the honourable Member that in 2016, out of the 4827 cases in which public employment programmes were controlled by government agencies, 30 programmes were required to recover public employment subsidies and 14 criminal reports were filed. Thus, government offices and district offices have the necessary powers to prevent abuse of this kind or of any kind of public employment, and these checks are carried out regularly and continuously. In addition, the Deputy State Secretary for Public Employment of the Ministry of the Interior, as the organiser and supervisor of public employment programmes, pays particular attention to ensuring that public employment subsidies are properly used and not abused. Obviously, when a person breaks the law, there are consequences of breaking the law, necessarily first a complaint, a procedure of proof, and then a court can decide what the consequences of breaking the law are. On this matter, I can tell the honourable Member that there have been several reports of abuse. It is clear that no one can do that by giving workers a piece of paper made by him instead of a wage, whether we are talking about employment on the market or public employment. Accordingly, the reports have been merged and the investigation is ongoing. In the course of the investigation, in addition to the suspicion of the use of the false private document, there was also a suspicion of misappropriation of the office, of significant financial disadvantageous fiscal fraud and of the crime of fraud causing greater disadvantages as a target event. The current deadline for the investigation expires on 7 July 2017, but, if necessary, the deadline for the investigation may, of course, be extended. So the Ministry of the Interior, or the offices which are responsible for monitoring public employment programmes, operate, operate well, perform the necessary tasks. It is for the judge to decide whether an indictment is going to take place or whether the court will pass a judgment in accordance with the congressman's wishes. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-64	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2017-05-15-65	Mr President, Dear House, I have no intention of taking over the role of the courts and then doing their job. The problem is not that. I wanted to ask you two things: do you find the current legislative environment in order and are you planning to take any steps? You replied: the legislative environment is perfectly fine, the control works perfectly. Then tell me, Mr. Secretary, how in God's name did this man do what he's done for years? ? What? ! How on earth did it happen, Mr. Secretary, that you were selling paper bags more expensive than the store price in your own store? Well, if that's okay, Mr. Secretary, then I think we have nothing to argue about. There is nothing to discuss, Mr State Secretary, because I believe that these particular situations should be prevented, prevented, punished and that there should be some intention. I don't accept the answer, Mr. President. Thank you for the floor.
u2017-05-15-66	Congressman has exercised his right not to accept the answer. I ask this House whether they will accept the reply of the Secretary of State. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 107 votes to 20, with one abstention. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. The information at least believes that education is being steered in the wrong direction? It's an address. Congresswoman's got the floor.
u2017-05-15-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ten years ago, the early school dropout rate wasn't as high as last year. Although the Orbán government talked about the opposite and undertook a reduction when it came to power in 2010, the indicator has been deteriorating ever since, and has already increased to 12.5 percent in 2016. This means that one in eight children get out of the education system without a secondary education. In all this, it is obvious that the age limit for compulsory education has been reduced to 16 years, which has increased this rate according to all indicators. Based on the data, it is therefore quite clear that the Government has also taken a wrong decision with this measure. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] If we are referring to data from other countries, we see that we are the last of the Visegrád Four in this respect, and there half as much fall out of the system prematurely as we do. This coincides with the fact that social mobility is the worst in Hungary among the countries of the European Union. By forcing schools to maintain a state reserve, you promised to reduce the differences and give the children of poorer families a chance. It is now quite clear from the data mentioned above that this did not happen, but the situation is getting worse, as we have seen from the PISA results. [[15.00]] Perhaps I should not say that children who leave the system without a secondary education will find it much more difficult to find work later, and there is a fear that public work that will not ensure a decent living will be their only option. Right now, that's true of every 8th youth. At the same time, there is a higher proportion of functional illiterates, which is now nearly 20 percent. Of course, at his ministerial hearing, Zoltán Balog also doubted that this existed, because as he said, if anyone can read something, it means that he understands. So what the Orbán government's education policy has led to is getting further and further away from the knowledge-based society, the 21st century. To meet the challenges of the 20th century by raising a creative youth with national self-consciousness. On this basis, I ask Mr State Secretary whether they are willing to face their mistakes and whether at least the data believe that education is being steered in the wrong direction. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-15-68	Thank you, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-05-15-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, If you take one or two data out of the others, it may be enough for one speech, but less for the presentation of reality. You have been trying to say this for years, and this is what you do in a choir with the MSZP, that this government is trying to train as few graduates as possible, so that as few people finish their secondary education with their graduation. That is what they say, and they try to say it out loud enough, even if the data shows exactly the opposite. After all, if I compare how many graduates graduated in 2012 and 2016, we can see that boys have 2.7 percent growth and girls 2.5 percent growth. On average, in Hungary, more people in this age group are now earning 2,6 percent of their graduations than they did five years ago. Thus, there has been a clear increase in the number of graduates, and the number of young people will increase even more. After all, one of the most important advances in the recent changes in education and vocational training was that in the course of the 2016-17 academic year, 32 689 students in the new types of secondary school began their secondary education in the 9th grade, who could start their preparations for graduation immediately after completing the 11th grade. So they get a job, and two years after the profession, they can get a diploma. This is the reason for such decisions in the last seven years and in the future, that youth unemployment in Hungary is far below both the EU average, especially if it is compared with Mediterranean countries, and, above all, it lags behind the number that was typical of youth unemployment in 2010. It has been greatly reduced, reduced by less than half, so more people are getting a diploma, more people can get a job. This is due to the government's actions in recent years. As regards the territorial differences or the knowledge, the knowledge, so-called competence of young people, in the national competence measurement, which we conducted last year, as in the previous year, it was apparent that the performance of young people improved by 87 points on average and 106 points in mathematics between the 6th and 8th grades. Between the 8th and 10th grade, there was also an improvement, 53 points in text understanding and 24 points in mathematics; so the results of the students improved. Thus, we can say that the gap between certain students has also decreased. You brought information here on the mandatory school age for education. The only thing you forgot to say is that, in the meantime, if you turn to another side of the same statistics, you will find that the number of years or days spent in school by Hungarian students in Hungary, and in other countries, where the age limit is even higher, is the same. So there is no difference in the number of years spent in school depending on the age of 16 or 18. When comparing data with the Czech Republic, Poland and Slovakia, he forgot to mention that, from 2007 onwards, these countries had far below the EU average drop-out or leave-out statistics. The movement of the Hungarian number is fully identical to the average movements in the EU, whereas these three countries have significantly different data since 2007. It would be difficult to compare what has been different for ten years now than in Hungary. All of a sudden, he's making these countries look like if we'd started from the same zero point, it would have been the same initial stage, and things would have changed. No. On average, the European Union has changed in Hungary in this area as well. Nevertheless, I also consider it important that leaving school without a degree is an important issue, and we need to deal with it. We have developed a very serious medium-term strategy, and this is clearly also helped by the fact that the wages of teachers, the wages of educators, have increased to a very large extent. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-15-70	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mrs Dóra Dúró if she will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2017-05-15-71	Mr. Secretary. During your administration, the degree of early school leaving, the degree of unqualified school leaving, has increased. It's a fact. It is also a fact that functional illiterates have increased since you govern. Minister Zoltán Balog denied even this fact, denying this phenomenon, not only would he have said or said the steps to address the problem in response. I said Eurostat data, Mr. Secretary of State. The fact that I'm saying this with this volume is not my making up, it's facts, Mr. Secretary of State. It is also the task of an opposition representative, and also of a pro-government representative, to draw attention to errors and to make suggestions for solutions in response to this. And, Mr Secretary of State, in addition to the decline in youth unemployment in Hungary, another figure has to be added: that 78 thousand Hungarian children have been born abroad in the last six years. Therefore, I cannot accept the answers. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-15-72	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 26 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, László Szászfalvi, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Mr László Szászfalvi has the floor.
u2017-05-15-73	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In 1994 the UN declared May 15th the International Day of Families, to which our country joined. The initiative focuses attention on the family, the most important institution in society. Family is an incentive, safe background, shelter, energy source. Family is the community that keeps you in the most hopeless situations. In recent years, the government has developed the family support system with countless measures. This, of course, meets the most important objectives of the Christian Democratic People's Party, according to which the family as a nation reserve unit should be supported from the point when two young people connect their lives, through childbearing and child rearing to multigenerational large families. At the beginning of the spring session, my fellow Member from KDNP gave an interview and asked Minister about the family support changes related to the beginning of 2017, for the reason that encouraging childbearing and reversing demographic trends are a national issue. Every HUF invested today can be refunded many times in the lives of Hungarian families and through Hungarian families. According to the budget submitted on 2 May 2017, the monthly tax relief for families with two children will increase to HUF 35 thousand in January 2018, so they can receive a maximum annual discount of HUF 420 thousand. First married people can still expect tax relief, and besides the above, the government wants to strongly support families with the home creation programme, for which more resources, HUF 226 billion, will be available in 2018. Dear Secretary of State, Next year's budget sets the direction, sets government priorities. That is why I am asking Madam Secretary of State what additional family support measures the government is planning to take to improve the living conditions of families in 2018. Overall, what does the year 2018 bring for families? I look forward to the honour of Mrs Secretary of State's reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[15.10]]
u2017-05-15-74	Thank you, Congressman Szászfalvi. I give the floor to State Secretary Katalin Veresné Novák.
u2017-05-15-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, today is the International Day of Families, on May 15th, and even May is the Day of Families, the Month of Families. I, on the other hand, think that every day we celebrate families, every day it is about families in Hungary, because we work every day to represent the best interests of Hungarian families and to increase the well-being of Hungarian families. Since 2010, this has been one of our most important tasks since 2010. In 2010, we took a real family-friendly turn, and since then, government thinking has been characterised by the best interest of families. In view of the fact that the budget is now actually being negotiated, the 2018 budget is being negotiated, and I would like to mention a few points that indicate this commitment in 2018. In 2018, the budget will have HUF 1900 billion available for family support. Forints 1900 billion are used exclusively to support families directly in the budget. In comparison, in 2010, this amount was half that large, so we have been able to double the budget available to support families in eight years. This is, of course, an indicator, but it may well show our commitment. One of the very important elements of our family support is family tax relief, the principle of which is that we want to tax as little as possible the income that families with children earn by working. Therefore, since the introduction of the family tax allowance, which our government has introduced, we have been constantly expanding it, extending it to contributions, and now there is another enlargement, as the family tax allowance with two children is rising again in 2018, now the families with two children can save HUF 35,000 per month, so every month there will be a net HUF 35 thousand more in their wallets. The total budget for the family tax relief will be HUF 316 billion in 2018. Tax benefits also include a marriage tax reduction, where an innovation is that newlyweds can now use this discount for two years even if they have a child in the meantime. They will then receive parallel family tax relief for marriage and for the child. It is also a new or additional resource that we provide to crèches, as in addition to raising the salaries of the professionals working in the nursery, and bringing the higher education graduates into the pedagogical career, we have been able to raise their wages significantly for those with secondary education, as well as developing, expanding, making the nursery system more accessible and flexible, and increasing its funding by two and a half times compared to this year. This means that nearly HUF 37 billion will be available for this purpose, and, yes, this means that it will be more worthwhile for maintenance, municipalities or civilian maintenance than it is at present. I'd like to raise the child food from next year's surplus. This is also a very important point that we want as many children as possible to eat for free three or four times a day. We now spend nearly 80 billion forints on children's meals, holidays and children's meals during school hours. This is also a two-and-a-half-fold increase compared to 2010. One more point like this is textbook care. We will extend the free textbook supply from next year until the 9th grade. That's an extra 285,000 children's families, which is a 40 percent increase. Thanks to this, more than 1 million children will receive the textbook free of charge next year. It is also a novelty that maternity benefits will also be granted to those who do not undertake or are not born there within the administrative borders of Hungary as of 1 January 2018. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] This represents a single sum of 64,000 forints. So we continue to work to support families in as many ways as possible. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-15-76	Thank you, Secretary of State Katalin Veresné Novák. I will ask Congressman Szászfalvi if he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2017-05-15-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The Fidesz-KDNP government aims to make Hungary a family-friendly country. That is why the government has decided in many ways in recent years that have helped our families. I think the real certificate for a government is what the government is proposing in the budget. I think that when we see the budget proposal, we can see that, indeed, according to the government's promise, as it has helped families, Hungarian families, it will help us in the coming year by taking a step forward. It is therefore a pleasure for us that families, family support, are a priority in the government's budgetary policy, and I therefore, of course, accept the honour of Mrs Secretary of State's reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-15-78	Thank you, Congressman Szászfalvi. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Ákos Hadházy, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Why is the Klebelsberg Center keeping secrets? It's an address. Congressman Ákos Hadházy has the floor.
u2017-05-15-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In 2013, KLIK, the predecessor of Klebelsberg Center, received HUF 10 billion of EU and domestic budget resources. Public education in the school project has undertaken to build an IT system that reduces administrative burdens and helps with professional work. The date of the project's planned completion was 31 December 2015, but it is not known when these programmes were completed, if any, but the fact is that they paid for this money, all HUF 10 billion. Of these, the program was about 850 million forints. The question is, what was this money paid for? I've found very harsh things about the project in question before. I found a certificate of performance, received a certificate of performance signed on the same day by the same person who signed the huge list of errors and then the six-month discount. However, I have received further information, and therefore I wanted to make sure that this new system was actually put into service. Once again, I turned to the Klebelsberg Center and at the same time to your ministry. Long and moderately effective correspondence began, and it has now been six months since neither the EMMI nor the Klebelsberg Center really answered the question of how long and in which schools the new system has been used. I got an answer from Pölöskeine. In it, he said it exists, the system works. In the first letter, he said that this system exists and works, and he said that schools do not have to work. Unfortunately, I have to say, they're both lies. One was denied by them themselves last week, when they said that not all its elements were working, and then part of it was only 31 December 2017. The second can be found in the fact that I have the data requests, the specifications, in which it is clearly stated that these programmes must operate in schools and institutions. However, I don't know how it works. We would have asked many times, several times, with many phones we tried to ask you to let us look at these systems in action. I'd like to believe they work. Now, after the press conference, I've got an appointment, so maybe two weeks from now, I can visit the principal's presence. This IT system, as I said, cost 850 million forints, and there's a reason why it doesn't work. If it did work, why couldn't I watch this system in action for six months? Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask for a clear and clear answer as to how many schools and how long the integrated IT system, created from hundreds of millions of forints, has been in operation and what these schools are. If there's any evidence that the system hasn't been built, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So, these money's run out, is there an investigation? Thank you very much.
u2017-05-15-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-05-15-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We ask Mr President that you do not keep secrets, and that you help us find out how the documents you presented at your press conference cannot be found at the Klebelsberg Centre, how they got out of the Klebelsberg Centre, and you seem to have them, but you do not have them at the project owner's. It's an unusual thing. It's called a data theft case, when you've got data that the data provider hasn't authorized, not in the public interest, and it's missing from the system where it's supposed to be. We hope that these questions will also be answered in the wake of the KLIK report. And you, as you pointed out, on 24 May you will be able to verify with your own eyes how the system you were curious about earlier, at your press conference, in your correspondence and now. [[15.20]] In addition, both methodological development and institutional development were developed in this project, with both partnership, organizational development and IT tasks being carried out. You do not have a press conference or an interpellation, honourable Member, in which you would not kick someone, if possible tens of thousands of people groups should be considered. A total of 11,000 teachers participated in this project, and we included nearly 6th of the teachers of primary schools with state reservations in this activity, and billions of forints were the prize we paid them, and we believe that this was a good investment, as 15 thousand students attended these events, 800 different development events of this amount were held by these teachers. But we also believe that we have made a good investment in the 315 state-owned institutions where various methodological innovation tools have been purchased. 48,000 such devices were purchased. They are in schools, but we also believe in the Partnership and Networking module that 200 schools have received 14 thousand different tools to implement the programme. Overall, if I look at who has received developer therapy tools, natural science tools, books, language books, games, sports equipment, instruments, laptops or other IT tools, we see that 432,000 of these devices have been added to 171 state educational institutions. This means that if everyone got one or one, almost every other elementary school child would have a tool like this, which is in the schools and helps the work of the people working there. As you pointed out, honourable Member, you are in an earlier correspondence, on 9 March you were given a very detailed information about the Klebelsberg Centre staff. The timetable for entry into service was also provided for information, the final date of which was indeed 31 December 2017. And the IT system for maintenance is obviously running with the maintenance staff and not in reserved institutions, in schools. That's what I'm asking you to acknowledge. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-82	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2017-05-15-83	Thank you very much. Of course, I cannot accept it, because it was only one question, and I asked how many schools have had these programs in place. These are programmes that are available for data collection programmes, purchasing programmes, HR programmes, all specifications, each of which states that all offers have been asked for, and it makes perfect sense that they work at school either with all teachers or with the head of institutions. It makes perfect sense that these things work, because that's the only way to get the data that the center will analyze. Obviously, this money if it wasn't there. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Have they not been established?]] And they paid for these money, that's clearly a misrepresentation. I mean, they paid money without getting what they wanted. You confirmed that. And I am also very curious about where these documents, which are otherwise public, are documents of EU procurement. If they're lost somehow in the KLIK, it's really a terrible problem, so I'm really glad to find out. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-15-84	Thank you very much. Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'll ask the Parliament if it'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes to 30, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Mr. Zoltán Demeter, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, How does the government help Christian youths in the crisis zone? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Demeter has the floor.
u2017-05-15-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In regions that are crisis zones for Christian communities, the chances of access to education are bravely said: very bad. In these areas, a high proportion of young people who have fallen out of education will have serious economic difficulties in the future. During their visits to Hungary, church leaders in the Middle East also indicated that they needed support that would help their communities stay in place. In crisis zones, especially in the Middle East, reconstruction after the end of the open war conflict, I am convinced that international engagement is necessary. In addition to rebuilding the material environment, societies need to be prepared for re-adaptation to peaceful conditions, the primary tool of which is education. Moreover, in addition to material resources, communities that have fallen apart in conflicts must also have access to training capacities. I am pleased that the Government of Hungary wishes to help in this hopeless situation with the work programme called "The Christian Youths of the Scholarship Programme." The scholarship for young people in discriminated Christian communities offers the opportunity to carry out higher education studies in Hungary, so that they can return to their country to contribute to the strengthening of their communities and, of course, contribute to the enrichment of their communities. With all due respect, I ask Mr Secretary of State: how does the government help Christian youths in the crisis zone? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-86	Thank you, Congressman Demeter. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-05-15-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Hungary is really trying to place the help within the Hungarian Helps program. We want to provide a smart help to all countries, all communities who are in a difficult situation, especially in the Middle East region. I've been there myself, spent several days in Iraq. Meeting local leaders, church and secular leaders alike, I asked each of them whether they should be helped by the Middle East groups or by them who live on the Nineveh plateau or in the vicinity of Europe and imagine their future in Europe. Each of them clearly and definitely said no. They do not seek the help of Western countries in mass deployment of their families into Europe from Iraq and other countries, but in calling for the help of Western states to ensure security in the region, to comply with legislation and to have a vision for the people living there. And in the destruction of the vision, the responsibility of the Western states was determined by temperament. They were not thinking of Hungary, they were thinking of other North Atlantic states, who, on the other hand, made big, big mistakes in the destabilization of the region. So it wasn't the installation in Europe that you asked for, but it had three main directions. Each leader considered educational assistance to be the primary and most important. That is why we have also launched this scholarship programme, for which the Member has targeted, and that is why we have launched the building of the school in Erbil, where the walls are constantly being raised, and we hope that the students will be able to learn there in the next academic year. The main reason why these leaders consider it important to develop educational institutions is because they do not crowd young people, because many live hundreds or even thousands of miles from their original homeland, do not attend school during the day, and if they do not attend school, they are easily lost, radicalized, and do not acquire the knowledge that they can later work with. The second was this important for health care. This is why Hungary is also helping the Szent József Hospital with six months' supply of medicine, which the Government of Hungary has already decided on; and with the help of the Maltese Charity Service, we are also trying to help rebuild a hospital in the suburbs of northern Syria, which has a church reserve there. The third important thing these leaders considered important for future generations is to help rebuild houses and settlements. If the inhabitants left a settlement and saw only in the news that they had been destroyed, looted, even more so, the buildings of Christians, because they were marked in many places with the letter N, like the followers of Nazareth, so the criminal protection did not extend to those buildings, there could be freely looting, arsoning, destruction. Well, if that's all anyone sees on the news, it's very difficult to get back from a refugee camp to their original settlement. This is why the Government of Hungary has decided to rebuild a settlement, the settlement of Telskof, which was previously a 100% Christian settlement. [[15.30]] And if you compare how much it costs, whether you look at it financially, although this is secondary to the human aspect, how much it costs to help someone start their life in Europe, and how much it costs to use the help that is primarily requested in their own homeland, you can also see a difference of up to 50 times between the penalty per person envisaged by the European Commission and how much it costs to renovate a house. It also shows that smart help is what helps you locally, and that is what Hungary is trying to do. There are, therefore, care and other types of assistance among us. However, if you look at what the most popular courses indicated by the Middle Eastern leaders there and announced in the scholarship program for which we will give the scholarship are patient care, pharmacy, mechanical engineering, oil engineering, gas engineering. They are all those that can play a role in reconstruction, in the economic recovery of this region. We hope that this 100-person frame number is only the beginning, and Hungary can really provide smart help to all Middle Eastern countries locally. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-88	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman Demeter if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2017-05-15-89	Thank you, Mr State Secretary, for your reply, and I am very pleased that the Hungarian Government is really helping young Christians in the crisis zone, and I am glad that it is doing this not only in the area of education, but also in the area of health and even in the area of reconstruction. However, I find it sad to see the 21st century. In the 20th century, the persecution and stigmatization of a person because of his religious affiliation or because of his Christian faith, and I myself have met several such young people here in Parliament, and personal conversations have confirmed that there is a very strong need for assistance. I am pleased that Hungary is at the forefront, and it would be good for the Member States of the European Union to testify to their Christian values. Thank you, I accept the answer. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-90	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, notary submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: Why can't pensioners keep their tax breaks after certain diseases? It's an address. Mr Nándor Gúr, notary, has the floor.
u2017-05-15-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, When someone is working, active age, you can say it's a little easier than when he retires and suffers from the same illness. Why? Well, it's simply because, in connection with the existence of active age, you can practically apply tax credits to the income you seek in certain cases, in relation to certain diseases. These tax incentives will obviously cease at the moment of retirement if one does not do work but lives as a pensioner. The disease remains, however, and the disease does not disappear. In addition, it is clear that the pension rate is not more, but less, in line with the approach of a living earner. So there is a double disadvantage in this regard. In this case, these people will have to expect an annual surplus of up to HUF 75-80,000. If you look at examples, you can get a tax reduction, say, as an active-age worker, a person with lactose intolerance, so he doesn't have resistance or celiac sensitivity, but you can also say that people who have been blessed with a carbohydrate metabolism disorder are in the same situation. For example, first and second degree diabetes. But again, that's true in active age. If he reaches retirement age and retires, then the possibility of a tax credit will obviously cease to exist for him. Discounts may be applied only on taxable income. What is the answer to that question today? The answer to this question today is, in fact, that local authorities solve this issue. Local authorities have a certain type of source available to meet these requests. They - i.e. local authorities - can decide on these matters on their own. It is only generally the case that local authorities do not have the government's funding to carry out the mandatory tasks, and in this sense they are in a very difficult situation. The question is very simple in this sense and I would like a very clear answer in this respect, Mr State Secretary. As I said, with the active age ending and the retirement period beginning, if the disease was given in the active age, the retirement age will not stop. I would like to ask you when you will create a situation in which people who have retired will not lose their so-called entitlement to tax relief, even if they receive it under a different title. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-05-15-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-05-15-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In 2012, the law adopted by Fidesz-KDNP was necessary to ensure that pensions were exempt. You were talking about how good it would be if pensioners were to receive tax relief or something like that in some respects, but we rather said that we shouldn't tax pensions in any way, no tax on pensions, and in 2012 we gave you a guarantee. Unlike your time, who not only took away a month's pension, which also, if someone is sick, may be quite absent from the spending of medicines that they had to spend at that time in a much higher value than they are now, since there was no blind ticket or any other drug-destructive mechanism that now, overall, protects pensioners and patients' wallets in the order of ten billion dollars. Well, then, all one month's pensions were missing from the budget for spending medicines for each pensioner, and taxing the pension was a danger that further reduced income. Of course, if you work alongside a pension as a self-employed pensioner, you have the opportunity to apply all benefits. But we considered it important not to tax pensions against the socialists; the pensioner who votes for the socialists risks bringing pensions back into the tax cycle. On the other hand, there are a number of other forms of care in the social care system that can be provided both to persons with disabilities, long-term illness and to persons with health impairment, and also to those with a pension. To highlight two of these for you, one is disability allowance, to which no employment restrictions are attached, which can also be used under retirement or, in any case, can be carried out without a income limit. The other is what you know, because it is a very widely used option, in kind care, public health care, which is a kind of support in nature that serves the purpose of protecting and preserving social security by compensating those who need it for health-related and disease-related expenditure. There is no need for any kind of income assessment to establish the subjective public health care, and in the event of compliance with the conditions laid down in the Social Administration Act, pensioners should be entitled to this benefit in kind in the same way as persons of active age. And I would like to point out that for those who have a disability or a disability, travel benefits are obviously the same for those who are either retired or not retired. You said that municipalities can provide extraordinary social support through municipal support and do not have the resources to do so. They do not have to have a source in such a way that we provide more than HUF 30 billion from the central budget. So the municipalities do not have to do it on their own income, but on the 30 billion forints provided from the central budget. This is a wealth of resources, I think, to provide social benefits; this, moreover, was not before 2010. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-94	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr Nándor Gúr, a notary, if he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2017-05-15-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The HUF 30 billion of the central budget, to which you refer, is not abundant, but far too small. Far from it. Look, Secretary of State, if I wanted to be cynical, would I ask you to read all the nonsense and nonsense they put in front of you? [[There's a grumble from the ruling parties.]] But I don't want to do this because you can't answer it, so take my question unimportant. I would rather have listened to what the past seven years have been about in terms of health care, not the looting of health care, not the looting of it, but the development of it. Now, that's what you did, the looting. You know, when in Hungary today, under HUF 50,000, there are about 450 thousand full pensioners and pensioners, I think that the question that I asked you was absolutely rightfully formulated, and you really shouldn't go where you want to go, that you want to stop the oncological care of people over 75. One word, as one hundred: the disease will not end with retirement, that should be provided for you, this should be supported, this should be prevented! Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's right! Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[15.40]]
u2017-05-15-96	Thank you, Congressman. Congressman, you didn't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 100 votes to 31, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. How many families remain on the side of the road? It's an address. At the request of the Minister of Justice, László Trócsányi, who is competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, will respond to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2017-05-15-97	Mr President, Dear House, Every year, in the weeks and months following the end of the eviction moratorium, we have endless debates about the fact that the Jobbik order demands that we meet more and more evictions, and unfortunately in many cases the government acts like a lame duck. At the moment, it is the executives who are quite simply unable to sell more real estate on the market, but it is not the government's right action plan to prevent similar processes. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, my first concrete question, and please answer this question precisely, by number, how many evictions the Government of Hungary is expecting this year, so how many similar events will you name it, because you will give your name to this program that you have placed on the table. For example, with the fact that the National Asset Manager is making contracts with people more difficult and bumpy - this is reflected in the number of contracts concluded - we do not see the allocation of budgetary resources at the appropriate level for the asset manager that does not provide a definitive solution for Hungarian people. He can provide temporary assistance by taking away the property of the person, renting his own apartment further, but I have been specifically spooked by the State Secretary's statements that, according to Fidesz-KDNP, Hungary's largest rental program is currently the National Asset Manager. So you consider the crimes of criminal banks to be upheld, legalized, and then to take property belonging to Hungarian people, and I don't know under what circumstances, but perhaps to play these real estates on the market in the form of rent apartments for others. On the other hand, Jobbik not only puts on the table in the budget debate, but at all levels the need for a public-based home-building and rental-building programme, not only for the lucky social classes and upwards - with a CSOK, a discount of 10 million, etc. - but also by providing an affordable number of apartments, both in quantity and in bulk. After all, Minister of State, my other particular question is how you intend to make it possible to manage in Hungary that an average young person or a Hungarian person starting his life in a large city will pay 130 to 150 thousand forints extra rent for a rented apartment. Nonsense that your answer is that the Hungarian man prefers the property he owns. Of course, everyone prefers real estate, but there is a painful rent shortage in the Hungarian market. So I have another specific question: how does this government intend to remedy the home creation crisis, which is partly due to the problem of foreign exchange lending? I am not talking about ten million benefits, but I am talking about emigration in Hungary, especially for young people, especially middle-class people or even more difficult people, without solving these issues. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It keeps spinning, but we can't solve our basic problems. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-15-98	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2017-05-15-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think the questions you have raised are considerably beyond the framework of an interpellation, but I am happy to answer some of the issues that have been mentioned in writing. With the forinting, the government was able to help a good part of the creditors, and we know that today the Swiss franc is still higher than the one on which this happened. We had to take into account the decisions of the Curia here, and according to the estimates of the Ministry of National Economy, households could save 100-200 billion forints of debt only with this story. The application of the central exchange rate is also in this area, and what the Member mentioned in the framework of the Home Protection Action Plan announced in spring 2011 is the National Property Management Ltd. set up the National Asset Manager with the aim of not taking these apartments on behalf of the Hungarian State, because they were not lost by the owners, but rather saved by them, so that they could stay as tenants in their own homes, and basically provided sufficient cover to make the housing of socially dependent lenders possible in the longer term by paying rents much lower than market rents. Since the launch of the National Asset Management Programme in 2012, the asset manager has continuously purchased 29 236 residential properties for the benefit of the State until March 2017 and has accepted more than 40,000 applications. Continuity and consistency were ensured by the government by adjusting the eligibility criteria year after year 2012 to practical experience in order to address the most deprived and most threatened debt lenders. The private bankruptcy procedure also provides the possibility of providing State aid to the debtors for the settlement of their debts. They receive repayment support, the monthly amount of which is up to HUF 25,000, and this can be paid for five years. The number of participants in the debt settlement procedure, if moderate, but increasing, is currently known as 835 initiated proceedings, affecting more than 2,000 people. 1832 people are already participating in the current procedures. On the basis of the number of cases so far, we have set a target for creditors and debtors to be more interested in private bankruptcy proceedings. We present the legal options, of course they depend on the over-debtedness of debtors, whether their financial problems are temporary or, in the context of a regulated procedure, they can no longer pay the debt on their own or win the solvency if the state does not help. Taking into account trends over the last two years, the number of real estate affected by implementation is expected to be between 4300-4500 in 2017. The Law on Court Enforcement therefore entered into force on 21 March 2017, with an amendment, the effects of which have not yet been assessed in the light of the short term. This will have a significant impact on the number of successful auctions and the number of evictions, and may significantly reduce the growing trend you have visited in relation to 2017. I ask the House or Member to accept my reply. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-100	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Völner. I give the floor to Z. Carpathian Daniel, and I ask you...
u2017-05-15-101	Mr President, Dear House, An incredibly sporadic applause also indicates that this is an unpleasant subject for the government. I commend the Secretary of State for trying to answer at least one of my questions, and he acknowledged that this government contributes to the possible evacuation of more than 4 thousand Hungarians' homes during the period concerned, with the absolute failure of its action programme on lying foundations. After all, Secretary of State, you have not been told by the Curia, nor have you referred to this, to the fact that these so-called loans are forinted at the market rate, not to claim such a thing, because this has not happened. No one authorized you to exchange your so-called loan at 165 HUF at the almost market rate of 256 HUF. You have legalized a hundred billion-dollar mechanism, you have legalized the bank's looting process, and this will have consequences not only by losing the votes of the citizens concerned, but you have contributed to the loss of the economy, the home creation crisis. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] , forced Hungarians to emigration, and all this is an unforgivable historical sin.
u2017-05-15-102	Congressman, I'm asking if you'll accept the answer.
u2017-05-15-103	I don't accept your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-15-104	He won't take it. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 101 votes to 31, with no abstentions. [[15.50]] Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Ikotity István, representatives of the May Other of Politics, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2017-05-15-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The Fidesz-KDNP government puts students in a difficult position by continuously changing the maturity rules. The changes particularly affect young people in vocational training. There are measures that only have a negative impact over the longer term, such as the withdrawal of public knowledge from the otherwise misleadingly-named vocational gymnasiums. The teaching of geography, physics, chemistry, biology was partly combined into an object called a so-called complex natural science object, which, contrary to the government's claim, is not some modern and innovative approach to teaching these objects, but an hour-limited, demented form. Those who attend vocational school can only learn subjects related to their profession properly, nothing else, so they will be able to graduate from them only with great difficulties. This is absolutely necessary for general education. True, those who are affected by this knowledge - reduction measure will not graduate in years. But this year's graduation also holds unpleasant surprises for students who have graduated. In February, the education ombudsman also found that it was only four months before graduation that it was found out exactly how they were going to take an exam, which was the fifth degree from which the participants in vocational training were to take an exam. The requirements for compulsory professional qualifications became public in December. The preparation was made difficult by lack of teachers, substitutions, restructurings. According to the Commissioner for Educational Rights, the problem could have been solved early this year with a legislative amendment. The urgent procedure should also be used for precisely such situations, when it is in the best interests of students to correct something quickly. Unfortunately, the government is considered to be a routine violator of the graduation process. Due to the constant changes, it has not been possible to provide a calm and predictable preparation period for the graduates. Last year, we asked for amendments to be put in place in the middle of the recruitment process for applicants in the field of agricultural training, which covered the requirements for optional objects; but they also changed the rules on the way to the national level. Dear Secretary of State, Why do they keep changing in the middle of graduation training? Why don't you give students predictable conditions? Who is responsible for the violations? What guarantee do you have that in the next year's graduation period, there will be no new changes to the disadvantage of graduating classes? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-05-15-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-05-15-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If we were to turn back the clock a little bit and stand here last February, then you spoke about the fact that opposition parties fully understand teachers and parents' grievances on the street, because the students are too busy and they need to reduce the curriculum they deliver to students, reduce the number of hours, reduce the amount of material, because it is unacceptable that the students are also under pressure in the afternoon. Then, if someone looks at you the same way today, they see that students learn too little, why there is no more teaching material in schools, why they don't want to pass more in classes, which means that obviously there would be more hours, longer textbooks, more to be written. The opposition parties therefore demand the same and the opposite within 14-15 months - this is only because they do not have their own vision of exactly what they want in the Hungarian education issue. Therefore, if people now feel that there are too many teaching material, they will say that there is too much; if they feel that there is too little and that there should be more to give to the school, they will demand in Parliament that there should be more. It's a good thing the government doesn't commute here and there. But it can also be said that 14 months ago you said that the curriculum was not up-to-date enough, the curriculum was outdated, the curriculum was outdated last century, and now you're saying why there is a constant change in the curriculum, why you're updating the materials that students have to learn and then you have to take the exam. So you have said everything in this area and the opposite in the last year and a half. We, on the other hand, maintain that we are in a satisfactory graduation, that the content of the graduation subjects is predictable, and that the organisation was fully in line with the legislation. Details that had to be changed either because of the new National Basic Training Plan or have been modified on the basis of the framework curricula, or the experience of the past years, and based on the feedback of the schools themselves, we have decided that it is worthwhile to change them. If we look not at politicians, but at the professional feedback of graduates, then they say to you that these are creative changes, they are finally competent, and the changes to the knowledge that can be applied in the labour market are focused on the changes that have appeared in the graduation system. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: Who says that?]] And fortunately, in the last few days Hungarian language and literature were almost completely free of problems, with the participation of 71 954 students from Hungarian language and literature on the mid-level at 1167 locations, and 47 with the participation of a total of 1718 students on an elevated level; mathematics with a total of 70 597 exams on the mid-level and a total of 3527 exams at 88 venues; English at a mid-level of 1157 locations, 52 5222 students took the final exams at 129 venues and at a raised level of 10 273 at 129 venues. The professional qualifications, which you have referred to, will continue on 17 May, and in cooperation with the NSZFH, the vocational training centres will also make appropriate preparations for this. In this new system, however, it is immediately possible - legal opportunity and real opportunity - for the examiners who have passed the exam successfully. In fact, from this year's academic year to the new types of secondary schools, 32,000 students now have the opportunity to start prep for their finals in the 9th grade, i.e. within two years they will have a professional degree and a diploma. This will also contribute to their ability to work in better and higher paying jobs, as the salaries in Hungary have increased by more than 60,000 forints in recent years, the number of employees has increased by 700,000 and youth unemployment has fallen by less than half. These changes have brought this positive result. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-108	Thank you very much. I'll ask Congressman Ikotity if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2017-05-15-109	Mr President, I listened with interest to the Secretary of State's reply, and from the four minutes he had at his disposal, I tried to determine what time it was going to be for what was really the question - I could not find it, he did not answer the questions. My question was that the Commissioner for Educational Rights found that graduation was a violation, in February he stated this, four months before graduation, did not change this, and unfortunately this system is now permanent. The same thing happened last year, that they would change the graduation rule when students were already preparing for it. The fact that they ignore, ignore at all, does not regard these problems as a fact, which affects tens of thousands of young people, tens of thousands of graduates, indicates that they cannot find a solution to the problem, because they do not see the problem. I can't accept the answer, Mr. President.
u2017-05-15-110	Thank you very much, Congressman Ikotity. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 103 votes in favour, 27 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Attila Gelencsér, a representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development: It's an address. Congressman Attila Gelencsér shall take the floor. [[16.00]]
u2017-05-15-111	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to you on a very important subject in my interpellation. Our wonderful country, Hungary, has always been a popular destination for foreign tourists, and, of course, domestic tourism was also popular. Just go through a pleasant summer afternoon in the city or visit a gastronomic or music festival, you can see immediately that this popularity has not only been broken for a long time, but apparently even more tourists than it was in previous years. For both foreign and domestic tourists, it is very important that they always meet fair conditions and high quality, whether for restaurant or accommodation services. Hungary's famous gastronomics and excellent cultural programs are far-reaching, so it is no coincidence that Hungary or Budapest will perform numerous international tourism surveys in a prestigious place. Of course, not only good food and colorful programs contribute to this, but also good public safety and affordable prices are a big boost to our popularity indicators. Protection against terrorism and migration can significantly determine the tourist competitiveness of a country, since no one wants to travel to a place where they must spend their daily lives in fear during their rest. Dear Secretary of State, Government measures over the past years confirm that tourism is an extremely important area for the government, as it would be almost difficult to list how many and how many tourism developments have been made in recent years from public or European Union sources. These developments and the expansion of the range of available services are, in my view, essential for a significant increase in domestic tourism. I should also mention the SZÉP card, which also makes a major contribution to increasing the circulation of catering facilities and accommodations. Dear Secretary of State, In view of the above, I would like to ask whether a number of developments and investments in the tourism sector have brought fruit and how domestic accommodation flows are developing and how this affects our economy. I look forward to the Secretary of State's honour's reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-112	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. [[Noise in the box behind the Jobbik fraction.]]
u2017-05-15-113	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Tourism is a priority sector of the national economy... [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2017-05-15-114	Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-15-115	... makes a significant contribution...
u2017-05-15-116	Mr. Secretary, if you'll excuse me. I would like to ask my fellow Members to lower their voice in the box... - thank you. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-05-15-117	Thank you, Mr. President. Tourism is a priority sector in the national economy and contributes significantly to economic recovery and job creation, supported by a number of factors. Tourism is typically the area of small and medium-sized enterprises and the sector makes a significant contribution to improving the balance of payments balance. According to Magyar Nemzeti Bank's data, in 2015, international travel generated some EUR 5 billion, i.e. some HUF 1500 billion of foreign currency income - the amount spent by Hungarians abroad is less than that - and tourism has improved the balance of payments by more than EUR 3 billion. This amount is 9.5 percent higher than in 2014. Domestic tourism also plays a prominent role in tourism. Stable internal demand makes the sector more resilient to external impacts such as acts of terrorism, natural disasters or a financial and economic crisis. While international traffic can surge for reasons beyond our control, Hungarians are a constant and predictable demand for tourism and the hospitality industry. Domestic traffic is distributed more territorially than incoming traffic: this means that foreigners come mainly to Budapest, 59 percent of foreign guest nights are realised in Budapest, compared to which Hungarians mainly travel to the countryside, 92 percent of domestic guest nights are created in the countryside. Domestic tourism is therefore particularly important in the lives of rural service providers, contributing to the preservation of rural jobs and the creation of new ones, thereby increasing the capacity of rural people to maintain their population. Hungarians who spend more tourism at home and not abroad, helping the Hungarian economy, tourism and family small businesses. It is no coincidence that the government has been encouraging domestic tourism with the SZÉP card for many years, last year HUF 95 billion was flowing to tourism and catering companies thanks to the card. The importance of the card is indicated by the fact that in 2016 the fifth of the revenues of commercial accommodations from Hungarians were SZÉP-card spending, while in 2016 commercial accommodations recorded 7 percent more, with a total of 30 million guest nights. The rate of growth of domestic tourism exceeded its entry rate in 2016, both of which were, by the way, around 7 percent. This positive process in addition to the SZÉP card as an engine for domestic tourism is partly due to the favourable changes in the family tax and family support system, and partly due to the tax environment and rising wages. People are increasingly spending on rising prestigious domestic rest thanks to the increasingly demanding supply. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-118	Thank you, Secretary Major. I will ask Congressman Attila Gelencsér if he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2017-05-15-119	Dear Secretary of State, I can report similar experiences from my constituency, Kaposvár, where there is a similar recovery. The situation in the workplace has been found to be below 4 per cent unemployment, to which tourism has made a significant contribution. The local government's income from tourism is increasing, and now we know the city's budget. Many small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, as you said, earn their daily bread from this sector. So I feel, too, that this focused attention I was talking about in my interpellation, and what you were kind enough to comment on in your response, which tourism has received from the government over the past few years, was worth it, which is where it came from. Of course, I accept your answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-120	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Gábor Bellozó, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: or the salary arrangement of higher education instructors and non-teaching public employees in higher education! It's an address. Congressman Gábor Bellozó has the floor.
u2017-05-15-121	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The wages of higher education instructors and non-teaching public employees have been unchanged for ten years now. The Hungarian Rectors' Conference and the Association of Higher Education Workers have therefore repeatedly initiated the settlement of the situation and, most recently, it has also developed proposals on how and to what extent the government will increase higher education wages. Raising these wages is, according to the profession, a clear prerequisite for achieving quality development and competitiveness in Hungarian higher education in the future. It is not difficult to see this, as Hungarian teachers' wages are not competitive either in the competition sector or in European teaching wages. A major foreign and domestic market absorption force is an exceptional problem, which causes serious problems in the provision of higher education professionals and, most importantly, in the supply of supplies. In addition, the fact that the increase in the guaranteed minimum wage for graduates has made the difference between the salary of well-educated colleagues working in higher education institutions who have been working on their careers for many years and the salary of early graduates has been minimised as a new problem. This also justifies the need for a significant wage increase throughout higher education. [[16.10]] It is well-known to all of us that higher education workers are well-trained, mobile, very easily able to work abroad and look for them in the domestic competitive sphere. Therefore, it is worth making significant efforts to keep the best in the field. On the other hand, a very inexplicable thing happened. Last week, Minister of State Palkovics ordered a maximum wage for teachers of the Budapest University of Technology. The press report said that no one at the university, along with the researchers' contributions, would make more money than the department heads. All this in an area where a graduate student with a better scholarship already has competitive contracts that make more money than university researchers. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, please respond to the fact that you do not feel that we should at least achieve the wage level of teachers in higher education at universities in Eastern and Central Europe. Why do they keep promising a raise, why? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] promises a three-step wage arrangement in January, Mr. Secretary of State Palkovics, if something is on the other hand [[The president's ringing again.]] Are they doing something else? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-05-15-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-05-15-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It took a long time for you to ask what you really want to ask, honourable Member. But with you, a train or two has run off, I see, in recent years, which you have not noticed, but this is also seen in your party's support. In 2010, we took over the higher education system with huge debts and obligations stemming from PPPs. We have managed to replace a large part of the PPP projects of universities, which is no longer a burden for universities and former colleges. We managed to squeeze the debt to a fraction, and we managed to increase the cash reserve of universities by tens of billions of HUF in recent years. After all that we managed to balance the management of universities, we launched a wage development programme already last year by 15 percent, then this year by 5 percent, and next year by 5 percent. These are the three steps, honourable Member, because the first step has already been taken last year, the second one this year, and the next one will be next year. For example, the rate of salary of a university teacher's position guaranteed in step I rose from HUF 437 300 to HUF 528,000, which, by the looks of it, appears to be a 20 percent increase in wages, and will continue in the following year. Among the chapters in next year's budget, if you look at it, there is a surplus of HUF 3 billion 243 million, precisely so that the next 5% increase will be covered. New categories have been created, precisely in terms of encouraging progress, either in terms of master teachers or in terms of habilitated professors. The impact of the education and research wage increase can be measured both monthly and overall, so the total amount is around HUF 16 billion that we now spend more on teaching and research and scientific wages. In the years to come, or in the previous years, the budget for higher education grew year after year. This was 6.8 billion in comparison to last year, so we saw a surplus of nearly 7 billion forints. So we try to increase wages in every step of the way, and we also try to contribute to a higher ranking. That is why we made it mandatory - and this should be introduced as of 1 September 2018, and it is a preparation period - that if a person acquires his doctoral degree as a teaching assistant, he should be employed in an adjutant position within three years, since many of them were still employed as teaching assistants at doctoral level; we thought it was mandatory to give them progress. We also provide for wage development for medical university theoretical institutions, and for those who carry out research that is important for the national economy in higher education institutions. During the previous period, the institutions have been differentiated on a quality basis and target subsidies have been granted. In the past, research was based only on project-based support. If I look at the new National Excellence Programme, doctoral candidates, young educators, young researchers in 2017, we have nearly doubled the funding to HUF 4 billion, from which they can farm. In the 2018 budget, which you will be able to decide on soon, the scale of the increase in individual scholarships and institutional excellence programmes is very high: the amount of aid that can be granted will increase by HUF 15 billion. In the R &amp; D area, a new fund for research support will also be established, which will significantly increase the resources that can be used for this purpose. The circular from which you quoted was about EU funds to provide a certain level of support to the project manager and to hire others as wages. If that were not the case, you would know very well that in six months you would be applying for excessive project management and other awards in the EU development field. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That would be the subject of criticism. We believe that everyone should receive an equal amount of extra income, but this should not be disproportionate. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-15-124	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Gábor Harangozó if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. [[Dr. István Józsa: No way!]]
u2017-05-15-125	Mr. Secretary. Mr. President. The question is not whether I accept it, but why you are assisting in what is going on here. Secretary of State, an assistant assistant earns HUF 264 thousand gross in Hungary today at the University of Arts! [[Dr. Bence Retvári: You took a month's wages from him!]] A graduate I.T. student, if he goes to work in the competition sector, how much do you think he's gonna make? The multiple of that. If a university wants to preserve its competitive instructors, and so it starts at least on EU applications that can supplement its salary to stay there, then your colleague, I asked why it would prevent the university from making at least their own efforts to keep their instructors if you, as a ministry, have failed to keep your promise! And, Secretary of State, you know very well that with the Rector's Conference, your Secretary of State agreed to raise wages this year, and that's what they're not doing. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And after that, they're gonna hold back what the university is trying to do on its own. What you're doing is unacceptable. [[The president's ringing again. Dr. István Józsa: This is what Palkovics did for a living!]]
u2017-05-15-126	Thank you very much. The congressman doesn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 103 votes in favour, 30 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, We'll move on to immediate questions. It's a one-minute short technical break. [[It's a short break. Noise. The president's ringing the bell. Representative Samos is leaving the meeting room.]] Please, those of you who are going down the hall, hurry up, please, with all due respect. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. The immediate questions will follow. Attila Mesterházy, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:. New challenge? It's an address. The President appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding to it, or whether he will personally ask the President for an answer.
u2017-05-15-127	Mr President, I ask Mr. President for his answer personally. Thank you.
u2017-05-15-128	Thank you very much. The President shall reply at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question: It's an address. Minister János Fónagy appointed Secretary of State for the response. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2017-05-15-129	Thank you, I would like to look the Minister in the eye and ask this question so much, so I would like to wait until he comes to work. Thank you. [[16.20]]
u2017-05-15-130	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. Who prevented Voldemorton from being raided? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public mission. I ask Mr Bellozó if he accepts the person of the responding.
u2017-05-15-131	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2017-05-15-132	He'll take it. Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor.
u2017-05-15-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As memorable, the 168 Hour newspaper first reported - citing police documents and wiretapping records - that the Fidesz representative of Mengyi Roland, who usually called himself Voldemort, was part of a plan to drain 100 million forints of EU funding. According to this, they wanted to apply for EU funds for social cooperatives, and so far the suspects say that Mengyi would have helped them with a bid of 500 million in return for 50 percent of the money won, and then 90 percent in return. End of October 2015 - see a miracle! - has also been set out in the scheme for the, model scheme for the networking of social cooperatives. According to the newspaper article, the investigators in the case had already prepared an ambush in the summer of 2015, as a result of which Roland Mengyi and his associates could have been caught in the act, but the action was not approved. Press briefings proved to be correct, and recently charges were filed against Roland Mengyi as an accomplice to a particularly high-value crime of fiscal fraud in a criminal alliance and a bribe on the charge of trafficking. In the context of the above, I ask Mr Tállai as the president of the NAV: has an internal investigation been initiated on the basis of the information contained in the newspaper article, and it is clear that the detectives were on the scene when they asked for a warrant for the ambush on the phone, but they did not receive this permission? Who was supposed to make the decision to authorize an ambush, which means who was holding the phone at the other end of the line, Secretary of State, and why wasn't this ambush approved? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-05-15-134	Thank you, Congressman Bellozó. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2017-05-15-135	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to tell you that you are asking for data and information that is obviously illegal and illegal for political purposes, because the work of the investigating authorities is governed by law, so the work of national tax and customs offices, as investigative authorities, is, of course, determined by law. It is clear that the law must be followed, so I would like to introduce to you that the Law on Criminal Procedure is Article 74. Pursuant to paragraph 5 of Section 5 of the Act on the Functioning of the European Union, information on the ongoing proceedings may be given to those who have a legal interest in the conduct of the proceedings and the outcome thereof, i.e. legal interests. Pending the submission of the indictment, the prosecutor, in the course of the judicial proceedings, the President of the determining court, shall authorise access to the documents and the necessary information after proof of the legal interest attached thereto, i.e. that it is not political. I suggest that you proceed in the future, following the knowledge of the law, if you wish to request information that only the investigating authority can provide. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-136	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congressman Bell.
u2017-05-15-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Tállai, to comply with the laws, please draw the attention of your Fidesz fellow Members next time. I think the fact that you're sitting on the bench of the defendants with your fellow offenders in a crime-related case tells you more than anything. Two: Secretary of State, as president of the NAV, did it bother you that, according to the wiretap reports, all suspects are talking about you in the Ministry about a secret document saying there's a problem here in the fall of 2015? Didn't it bother you how that reference to the interests of the investigation got out of the Ministry? Was it not a problem for you that the suspects from the Ministry were informed that they were being investigated and that they were being monitored by secret service? That didn't bother you, did it? ! The fact that I ask and confront what appeared to the public is that someone stopped the raid for political reasons when they saw a Fidesz MP sitting there, you have no answer. This has been the case in Hungarian history, after the raid, the representative was taken immediately, perhaps you remember. Now it seems that you have assisted to prevent this, which is a shame. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-15-138	Thank you very much. The rejoinder also applies to Mr Tállai State Secretary.
u2017-05-15-139	Look, it's your personal business what newspaper you read, 168 Hours or something, but at least you'd read it carefully, because this case is happening in July 2015. Do you know where I was then? That's one of them. The second is that if you know the laws, such as the NAV Act applicable on 1 January 2016, the following is stated: Paragraph 7 states that the deputy of the designated minister and of the head of the State Tax and Customs Authority responsible for the functions of the NAV law enforcement and investigative authority shall not be directed in specific cases in the performance of the NAV's functions of law enforcement and investigative authority. So much for your accusations. By the way, I see you as a good Gyurcsányi student, he said that you lied in the morning and at night, but I see you're lying in Parliament during the day. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-140	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Apáti, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, You may not believe this any more. Prime Minister János Lázár asked the Prime Minister to reply. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2017-05-15-141	I'd definitely wait for the Prime Minister.
u2017-05-15-142	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office an immediate question:. This was also paid by Soros? It's an address. Minister has appointed Mr Csaba Dömötör State Secretary for his response to an urgent public mission. I ask Congressman Savay if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2017-05-15-143	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2017-05-15-144	It says yes. Congressman István Szávay has the floor.
u2017-05-15-145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, One of the main internal political events in recent weeks has been the campaign that you have launched against civil society organisations, the whole civil sector, on the pretext of being clear about the policies that influence Hungary from abroad. When this case began, we made our position clear from the beginning, whatever the government press associated with you lied. We have said on several occasions that Jobbik agrees with the aim of the proposal, so it should be clear that if a person intervenes in Hungarian politics as a civilian, it should have a transparent background, let us see what money this is coming from. But we also added that this should not only cover funding from abroad, as it can be influenced by politics, funding NGOs from domestic countries, and we did not hide what we had in mind: the CÖF, which, until now, was not known what hundreds of millions of posters had filled the country on several occasions, or organized several tens of thousands of bus trips to the peace processions. Well, we've gotten smarter about this in the last few days. I turned to the Minister of National Economy about whether state-owned companies had given aid to the CF. It turned out that the Ministry did not, the CF also issued a communication stating that they had not received any State aid until 2016. Then they failed the next day when the Transparent found out that they received no less than HUF 508 million from MVM alone. The CÖF corrected this, or tried to explain that this was at the end of 2016, but this was the same period; at the end of 2016, just when the poster campaign against Jobbik, the clown poster campaign, started. It is therefore quite clear that the CÖF financed the poster campaign of Ference Gyurcsány and Gábor Vona from public funds and from the funds received from MVM. And from now on, you can also see or assume why you have laid down the civil law, Mr. Secretary of State. That's because it's getting uncomfortable for you. So my question is, what will happen to the civil law, whether it will be brought back to the House, whether they will be willing to adopt a civil law that will make the funding of political organisations and the financing of civil society organisations completely transparent. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-15-146	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör.
u2017-05-15-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is an independent company, and in this sense it is not quite clear why it submitted the question to us. But if you have already done so, let me tell you that the fact that we can talk about this support at all in Parliament is because they are public, you can get to know them; unlike the cases where foreign organisations are supported for political purposes, and in 2014, even you promised to take action in your electoral programme. [[16.30]] I find it interesting, by the way, that Jobbik is talking about transparency, which is talking about how much money is spent on billboards that attack the government. First they said they didn't know how many posters there were, then they said they didn't know how much they cost, and then they figured out that they were gonna answer that it was all from bank credit. The amount of the loan announced is much lower for Jobbik than the market price for such a campaign. That could mean the difference was paid by a billionaire instead of Jobbik. Now, honourable Member, this is the risk of overshadowed party financing, which is why we must fight it. For my part, I certainly wouldn't trust any more public money to a team, a group that doesn't even know how much money it spends, how much it costs, and otherwise, it's throwing itself into a lot of debt. Because there were parties who chose this path; it was the result. The MSZP doesn't have a building anymore, and the SZDS is long gone. [[Grumble in the benches of Jobbik.]] All of this after the country was in debt. We can well remember how the government debt was increased to more than 80%. Well, I'm sure we won't ask for that again. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-15-148	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have the opportunity to rejoin Congressman Savay.
u2017-05-15-149	My question was not about Lajos Simicska and Jobbik's poster campaign, but about the fact that the CF lied, it turned out that the CF was stuffed with hundreds of millions of forints in order to bring down the political opposition, and my question was whether the civil law had been laid for this reason. We have told you from the beginning, and I will tell you now, if you are willing to make a law that fully regulates and makes it transparent what organisations and what money influence politics in Hungary, then we can support it. If there is an organisation in Hungary that affects politics from within, it is CÖF. In fact, COF is already slowly influencing politics more than KDNP is capable of. And I'm not sure it's a unique case for 508 million MVM. I'm sure there will be other things to find out here, and if this were public, Mr. Secretary of State, as it is not, we could have known for the past six or seven years what the COF had taken a bus and put a poster out of. We don't know that. We just assume it's public money. For this reason, I have tabled a written question to all ministers today, from whom I ask for similar data to be provided for their own ministry. Yes, Secretary of State, we agree that this is illegal party and illegal campaign funding, and you will be responsible for that. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-15-150	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State also has the right to a rejoinder.
u2017-05-15-151	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, Listening to your speech, it occurred to me that your party president just today gave an interview to one of the Soros portals, which, by the way, received a hundred million-dollar capital injection from one of the speculators' foundations. If you were really interested in transparency, the interview would have brought this issue up at least in a few sentences. That would've taken guts, not cat pictures. In any case, we now understand why Jobbik supported the left in the political circus around the university, while Jobbik previously claimed that the aid granted to CEU could decide elections. This is a small example of the thousands of turns of Jobbik. I don't have an exact list of who and what George Soros is supporting, but Gábor Vona's interview today certainly couldn't have been done without him. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-15-152	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Can you govern without money? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár as Prime Minister's Head of the Prime Minister's Office to respond. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2017-05-15-153	I'd like to wait for Prime Minister.
u2017-05-15-154	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "Why is he good in the pit?" It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to respond to an urgent public task. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2017-05-15-155	I'd like to wait for Prime Minister.
u2017-05-15-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "The price of corruption is increasing indefinitely? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Minister János Lázár to respond. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. It says yes. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2017-05-15-157	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, Dear Minister, Out of 14 billion, the planned cost of the water world has now increased to 140 billion forints. This is ten times the original draft, and almost not a day goes by that the project does not rise by a few hundred million. In addition to the brutal release of costs, the payment of buddy entrepreneurs also warns of the risk of corruption in connection with the investment. István Garancsi, Viktor Orbán's rope friend, obtained orders of ten billion with the construction of the swimming pool, not to mention the environmental damage caused. The healthy trees of the high tide bath were also cut down, and the Danube bank was also cemented. The LMP therefore initiated an investigation committee to explore overspends. After the accession of opposition representatives, it is up to Fidesz-KDNP whether the committee can start its work. Dear Minister, Will this committee of inquiry be allowed to stand up, can we investigate the unrealistic overspends of the water vb? How could costs escape from the initial 14 billion to over 140 billion? How is it that the cost of the investment has increased tenfold over a few years? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-05-15-158	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2017-05-15-159	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, Thank you very much for asking. I must say that, by studying LMP's broad political activities, I have not come to the conclusion that this will be your question. Although Mr Hadházy did not give me the opportunity to answer his unanswered question, I wanted to say that I took their advice, their request, and went to Kistelek, and looked at where the concrete road leads, and I also looked at what was and what was not in the business halls there. On occasion, I would be happy to report it, as I write to my fellow Member Hadházy in a letter. So I try every single time to take your ideas seriously and answer the questions seriously. I believe that the question cannot be that it is in all our interests that Hungary organises for the first time in many decades a world competition that is a huge opportunity for Hungarian sports, a great challenge for Budapest and the country. In this, I hope there is a complete consensus between us. This is good for Hungarian sports, for Hungarian swimming, and we joined forces when we started to organize the competition. The fact that we have to organise this World Championship not in 2021, but in 2017, has not reduced the costs, but increased the costs, which the government and the sports association have jointly decided to take on all the consequences. The investments that have been closed so far, such as the construction of the tide, have cost exactly as the government commissioner and the Ministry of Inspectorship set out in the documentation of the public procurement procedure. There was no cost transfer there. We were able to keep that amount in the closed investment. How much the competition will cost, I can only account for what the government is prepared to do in front of Parliament and, of course, the public of the country. Now our most important duty and task, which is no small task, is to achieve this world competition with Hungarian success and the success of Budapest. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-15-160	Thank you, Minister. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman Ikotity.
u2017-05-15-161	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, You scared me because I was talking about ten times overspending, and you were talking about the fact that when the sports event closes, you'll have the opportunity to account for the total cost. That is what we see, and that is why we did not support this initiative at the time, because we were extremely afraid that it would be precisely that the costs would be so horribly released, tenfold. Think about it, if other sporting events, which have started from 700 to 800 million, have often occurred here in recent times, how many times they would have grown. I mean, how many times is this going to grow, which is already ten times the size of it? ! And then we can talk about spending 3.5 billion forints on a 90-minute opening ceremony. We can talk about setting up a pool in the Danube, which is then simply broken down, or about having a 2 billion-dollar event for a sponsor. Secretary of State, do you support the establishment of a committee of inquiry? - because it's time to stop the costs. [[16.40]]
u2017-05-15-162	Thank you very much. Without questioning the binding right of my fellow Member to a Member who works in legislation in respect of the executive power, and this is the duty, the right and the opportunity of accountability, let me say to you, Member, that, on the one hand, the costs will not increase tenfold. However, fair settlement can only be ensured after the competition is held, when you can look at it accurately per part of the event, and the government is obliged to account for it with each tax forint to the public, to see exactly how much it cost and was valuable. As a general point of view that sports events or works are generally expensive, I can say as a general resolution that in Hungary, in the last 30 years, there has been a rare occurrence of a public procurement with an export plan. There's a difference when a licensee requests an offer for a plan, and there's a difference when it comes to an export plan. Unfortunately, the Hungarian design precision is not yet in this stage. I promise you, you'll get detailed and detailed accounts. It is in the interests of the Hungarian Government and Hungary to have a very successful competition together. I ask for your understanding and your support. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-15-163	Thank you, Minister Lazarus. Dear Parliament, Gyula Budai, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Prime Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "How much damage could the Gyurcsány family have done? It's an address. Congressman Gyula Budai has the floor.
u2017-05-15-164	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Minister, Another socialist family business has been discovered, whose threads lead to the tiny-Dobrev-Gyurcsány family. The case began in 2002 when Klára Dobrev was one of the heads of the National Development Agency between 2002 and 2004 and was directly responsible for ensuring the IT background of EU funds. During that time, the IT system was outsourced, thus removing EU funds that arrived in Hungary between 2004 and 2007. This company, by the way, had eight contracts during this period. This activity was carried out between 2003 and 2009. This contract was signed by Péter Heil, who was then head of the National Development Agency and who is currently Altus Zrt. an employee of one of the executives. Through this IT system, nearly HUF 12,000 billion was transferred, and the control and management of this was in the hands of this company. I believe that this is a circumstance that must be examined, which the government must certainly examine, given the fact that the European Union has identified three very important things in its report in its analysis of the 2007 and 2014. On the one hand, there was no public procurement and, on the other hand, outsourcing was illegal and, thirdly, outsourcing was not published. Dear Minister, On the one hand, I ask the government to take firm action on this matter, and I ask you how much damage the family business of the Gyurcsány family has caused Hungary. [[Dr. László György Lukács: This would have been your job! A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-15-165	Thank you, Congressman Gyula Budai. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2017-05-15-166	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Before the anger gets out of control in this House, allow me to briefly... [[Martin Gyöngyösi: Better late than never!]] Yes, but I would like to say that I do not disturb the debate and the anger with the fact that the European Commission has just concluded an investigation that assessed how Hungary prepared the drawdown of some HUF 12 000 billion between 2002 and 2004. This was specifically an investigation into the operation of the IT system. It is undoubtedly a fact that the European Commission has already examined this in 2009. It's not clear to us, but we have some idea why you didn't make a statement then. Now, however, you have made a statement. The point of the statement is that Hungary acted illegally, and therefore we have to pay the European Commission a fine of HUF 17 billion of HUF 900 million, the total cost. There was no less than the fact that the resources of the 2007-2014 development period were organised in 2004 into an IT system that was unlawfully implemented according to the Commission's current resolution, and, moreover, when the IT system was completed, it was certain that even the ownership of the IT system was transferred to the IT system company. This was the so-called Welt 2000 Kft., which was well-built with contracts, and they took huge money from someone representing this company. According to the European Commission, first of all, this outsourcing was pointless, and the Hungarian State should have kept the operation of this IT system with you. That is now all right, because we have reorganized the IT system, and in this development cycle, the state is doing this work. The second point is that outsourcing, which was unnecessary and not in the interests of the state, was illegal. The complex of this was the National Development Agency, the responsible Vice-President Klára Dobrev, who conducted it, working today at Altus and the European Commission's non-examining team. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-15-167	Thank you, Minister Lazarus. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Congressman Gyula Budai. [[Dr. László György Lukács: This was supposed to be his job to account for it! Then why are you sitting here?]]
u2017-05-15-168	Mr President, To reassure my better fellow Member, I would like to inform you that I have examined Welt 2000 Kft. as a government commissioner for accountability between 2010 and 12 years. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Very effective, I see!]] However, since the end of the period 2007-13 took place after 2014, we did not receive the complete documentation from the European Union, so we could not complete the investigation. So what you're suggesting is silly, and I'm asking you to look into it in the near future. On the one hand, I thank the Minister for his reply and, on the other hand, I ask the Government to take the legal steps, whether civil or criminal, which are now possible in full knowledge of the facts. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-15-169	Thank you, Congressman Gyula Budai. The rejoinder also deserves Minister Lazarus.
u2017-05-15-170	Thank you very much. I would just like to point out facts to your attention and, in no way, advance the relationship between the facts. The first fact is that Hungary has been fined by the European Union and we have a repayment obligation. The second fact is that an investigation was carried out in 2009, which did not establish anything, and now another investigation was carried out. The truth is that those who carried out the first investigation gave the Altus Group a mandate to the European Commission in 2015. When they got out, this group came from the competent authority, organisations of the European Commission, another investigation into lawlessness and abuse. So I say no less than that the owner of the Altus Group, the leaders of the European Union and the European Commission, who have also examined the contracts they have concluded in particular. There may be obvious personal connections here, which we do not know in detail. That's why I filed a criminal report today. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-15-171	Thank you, Minister Lazarus. Dear Parliament, Mr László Varga, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Minister János Lázár to respond. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[Dr. László Varga: I accept.]] He'll take it. Mr László Varga has the floor. [[Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs takes the seat of a gullible Dezső in the notary seat.]]
u2017-05-15-172	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The news has recently come to light that in 2016, the CÖF and the foundation operated next to it decided to support approximately HUF 508 million, i.e. about half a billion. This is more than the annual budget support of any opposition party, a pseudo-civil organisation that openly supports, serves the government's policy and obviously attacks opposition politicians without being elected. This is how hundreds of millions of campaigns are conducted, which, where appropriate, may raise suspicions of illicit party financing. What do you think, Minister, wouldn't it have been better if the MVM, if any, had spent this amount on education development, say, in order to achieve such simple goals that parents wouldn't have to bring the copy paper into school? Or, where appropriate, to bring health and hygiene conditions to an appropriate level in health institutions, such as toilet paper or toilet seats, where appropriate? After all, the region of Northern Hungary is the last of 263 regions to compare European regions, unfortunately the Romanian and Bulgarian regions are already ahead. There would therefore be room for such a half-billion-dollar grant in Hungary, but primarily in education, health care, and not necessarily in the outrageous framework of such illicit party financing. The question is therefore: will an investigation be initiated at MVM in this case, and what kind of personal consequences will this scandal have? I would just like to add in person, Minister, what you would have thought as a opposition politician about a similar situation. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-05-15-173	Thank you, Congressman Varga. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. [[16.50]]
u2017-05-15-174	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, The answer is full of cuts that have not been typical of the Member's work before, so don't take it personally, which I'm going to answer now. One of my comments is that asking any member of the Hungarian Socialist Party about the management of the Hungarian Electricity Works can be regarded as particularly bad taste. During the eight-year government of the Hungarian Socialist Party, tens of billions of HUF were stolen from the Socialist Party's hinterland, the Hungarian Electric Works. Compared to this, it is an evolutionary achievement that today, with HUF 500 million, MVM claims to support a civil society organisation. At least this money won't be stolen by the socialists or anyone else. In this respect, what happens at MVM is a huge achievement. [[Moray and intervention from Jobbik's ranks: It's also stealing, Minister.]] If this money is missing from the Socialists' register, that's what you have to ask. Eleven cases have been brought against the former leadership and socialist leadership of the MVM, which, unfortunately, are still ongoing or have not resulted in results, but today everyone in this country knows that the management of MVM has seriously abused the management of the public assets entrusted to it during the governing of the socialists. My second comment, my comment of a political nature, is that if I understand it correctly, then if Fidesz, KDNP, or anyone who sympathizes with them, asks the MSZP why it supports George Soros and the Open Society movement, the idea of an open society, then the MSZP does not account for this correctly, but asks us back and accuses us of why the MVM gives money to a Hungarian civilian movement that is barely visible to the Soros empire. I think you should start by saying why you are behind George Soros and why you are protecting George Soros. The answer to that question is not why MVM gives money to civilians. On the other hand, MVM is obviously obliged to account for every forint. It would be a sensible debate whether the MVM or any public company has the right business policy to support anyone in this country at all. But the MVM's answer is [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] that it supports from its market revenue what a market firm can do [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-15-175	Thank you, Minister. Congressman Varga has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2017-05-15-176	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I regret that you did not respond to the fact that this support is more than the annual support of opposition parties, of any opposition party. This is openly distorting political competition. I think that's terrible, and I think we should probably start an investigation in this case, but then we'll press charges if you don't start. The other: I asked you several times about the MVM's grants, because, for example, in my constituency, Miskolc, several heating plants are operated, and the Miskolcs do not feel that they would turn it back to cultural or sports life. I could also say that the money from the Miskolcs would land at the COF, which would be due to them, because they could be supported by it. The second is: Csaba Böjte, a children's mission foundation receives HUF 850 thousand from MVM, and the CÖF receives 600 times that amount. Just to compare the two, it's unacceptable to me. Obviously, Csaba Böjte's foundation deserves a lot more support from this thing. I think this case stinks, it's not okay. I'm asking you to run an investigation. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-05-15-177	Thank you, Congressman Varga. The Minister shall also have the right to a rejoinder.
u2017-05-15-178	György Sándor has already said about the relativism of equal careers and equal opportunities, when he said that equal careers, equal chances, he goes by bicycle. It's known to everyone. I am only saying this because, of course, it would be possible to ask Mr.Hungarian how fair it is then that György Soros gives more money to his colleagues working against Hungary in Brussels than he spends more money on political activity against Hungary than Hungary's permanent representation in Hungarian, as well as the ability of Hungary to pay for its own employees, who work for the country as a whole, to protect Hungary's employees. I'd like to add that if you press charges, your souls are on it. I think it is a sensible debate, Mr President, if you ask whether, in general, public companies should pursue any aid policy. If they are pursuing support policies, they must do so in accordance with market law and implement it, in compliance with all the rules. The MVM must provide an account of the basis on which it carried out this aid, why and how it did it. I'm sure you'll be able to answer the question. There's a company management that can always answer all the questions, and you should know that. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[In the notary seat, Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by László Földi.]]
u2017-05-15-179	Thank you very much, Minister Lazarus. Dear Parliament, Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question, "Are you kidding or are you serious?" It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2017-05-15-180	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since Minister has probably gone somewhere to make jokes, I am obliged to accept the identity of Secretary of State. I respectfully accept it.
u2017-05-15-181	You have the floor, Congressman Rig.
u2017-05-15-182	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Last week, on the day of the ambulance, a scandalous joke or serious statement was made from Minister Zoltán Balog's mouth that he believed that the rescue workers were having breakfast there every day. That's not your first statement. If we recall, the first debut of Gábor Csató, the first debut of the Director General of the National Rescue Service was in connection with the bus accident in Verona, and there Zoltán Balog said that Gábor Csató had passed the baptism of fire. That's an insulting, outrageous, disgusting statement. It is equally outrageous and disgusting that rescue workers are claimed, if only so, to go to a place where breakfast is three to four thousand forints. Mr. Secretary, do you know how much a two-year-old family man who works as a nurse at the National Rescue Service makes? 160,000 forints. 160,000 forints! Figure out how to eat breakfast from this every single day. The dictatorial nature of the state has reached the National Rescue Service in recent years, but now it is even more there. Top executives are calling to say they don't dare to speak because they're afraid of being dismissed. Workers call from rescue stations, from Tapolca, Sümeg, Ajka, Veszprém, from other parts of the country that they will go to the streets. What is this career model, Mr. Secretary? Where are the promises? Is the career model part of that rescue car purchase that dress? Do you think you can move without an ambulance? Can we do a backup? Without clothes, what does a paramedic look like? Take that bloody and blood-contaminated dress home and wash it at home where the family washes the rest of their clothes? Shame on you! Does this look like a career model to you? Géza Kresz is spinning in her grave on his own! [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-15-183	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-05-15-184	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government, the government at all times, has a variety of ways of showing respect for rescue workers, paramedics, paramedics, paramedics, everyone, thousands of people, almost tens of thousands of people who work in rescue. One form and way of doing this is to be financially respected, to increase salaries, and to improve working conditions, and to improve working conditions. And the third is that when rescue workers, rescue workers, have a holiday, a day or two, they certainly recognize their work on those days. If I look at the financial recognition, the paramedic who earned 242 300 HUF in 2012, if next year's wage increase is made in health care and the National Rescue Service, he will earn 460 112 HUF instead of 242 300 HUF. A paramedic who earned HUF 390 500 in 2012 will earn HUF 645 thousand in 2018 after the adoption of next year's budget. This is a salary increase, a wage increase that is already felt by everyone. In three years, last year, this year and next year, there will be more than 60 percent, 67 percent of the salary increase they may experience. To do so, the government has provided and provides funding in recent years, as we took over the National Rescue Service in 2010 with a budget of just over HUF 22 billion. This is now rising to over HUF 39 billion next year. This will be a HUF 17 billion, 76 percent increase in the rescue service budget. This will enable you to pay the increased wages, which will enable you to start the purchase of new work clothes, which will be more modern and will also help you to obtain the costs of cleaning your work clothes. Obviously, this has contributed to improving working conditions in recent years with 30 new [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] We've built a rescue station, renovated 97, and 200 new ambulances will be ready for work in the next few weeks. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-15-185	Thank you very much, Secretary of State of Rétvári. I'll give the congressman the floor for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2017-05-15-186	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Secretary of State told me the template, but he sat down, and so did one. My specific question was whether he was joking or serious about his statement, because it's a joke. But if you're serious, then he should resign. He doesn't have a place in the Ministry. [[17.00]] So the one thing you don't know is the ambulance problem, and if you do, don't joke about it, because it's bloody serious, as paramedics say. You, as you say among yourselves, must protect my boss - that is why this dictatorial, Sicilian capo system works for you. [[János Lázár: Zoltán Balog?! But insanity in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] If you stand up now, tell me in a minute whether you agree with the Minister's statement. Another point is that you didn't organize that breakfast. It's a catering unit, so you don't have it. Zoltán Balog was, as it were, only a tolerated person in that area among the paramedics. Again, do you agree with the statement or do you distance yourself from it? Thank you.
u2017-05-15-187	Thank you. The Secretary of State shall also have a rejoinder.
u2017-05-15-188	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think what you said is primarily about your indiscretion. If there is a person who personally knows, feels, and feels, and understands the situation of paramedics in connection with the sacrifice of his own family, what saving means, what it means to live on an ambulance wage, then it is Zoltán Balog. If there is a minister in charge of health in the last 25 years who has achieved the highest wage increase, it is precisely his ministry. [[Lajos Rig intervenes.]] After all, you can see how much these wages have increased from 2012 to 18 in recent years. This year we will spend HUF 6.4 billion on this, next year we will spend HUF 7.5 billion on this as a surplus. Only the extra resources needed for the January wage increase are HUF 4 billion, and all of these have been achieved by Zoltán Balog as Minister of Human Resources. He thought it was important for him to go to a social responsibility event where he also invites paramedics for breakfast and discuss it with them. Believe me, they didn't accept him as a stranger there, but they knew that he was one of them, that his family was one of them, and that's why he was accepted among them, and that's why he reached them. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The success, the 76 percent increase for the ambulance service in five years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-189	Thank you very much, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Mátyás Firtl, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "Where is the development of the local government's information system? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Tibor Pogácsás Secretary of State to respond. [[For signal:]] Congressman Firtl points out that he accepts the person who is responding. You have the floor, Congressman Mátyás Firtl.
u2017-05-15-190	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, The Fidesz-KDNP government has already set itself as one of the main objectives of strengthening the role of the public service provider and improving service quality. The development and implementation of the local public service information system and the establishment of the system provide an adequate background for data traffic between the government and municipalities and between individual municipalities. The IKIR system creates a uniform web interface that can be used everywhere, which makes communication between the Cabinet and the settlements easier. One of the objectives of the ICIR system is to achieve a reasonable reduction in the amount of mandatory reporting and to draw relevant conclusions through the proper organisation of the data. The IKIR essentially modernises the local public service of local authorities and supports local state planning and the organisation of operational tasks at local level. This improves competitiveness, gives better informed decisions, thus providing long-term help. Dear Secretary of State, I believe that continuing infrastructure development of public administration is an essential condition for maintaining a well-functioning state organisation. Our actions to strengthen integrated and customer-centred work organisation will pay back many times in the future, while IKIR and similar IT developments will improve the country's competitiveness. Dear Secretary of State, Therefore, I ask with respect: what position does IKIR take in the development of the information system of municipalities, in the modernisation of public administration? Where is the development of the IKIR system? What financial support from the Union or government [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] can be used to improve the system? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-191	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2017-05-15-192	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The municipal system delivers a significant part of the public services provided by the State to citizens. At the same time, funding, financing and financing of these tasks are multi-stage and re-programming funding, which makes it difficult to compare the costs, the effectiveness and efficiency of the provision of tasks in a given area of the country compared to other areas, and the efficiency of the provision of tasks in settlements of different sizes. In addition, the development of IT has opened up an enormous number of opportunities in recent years, some of which can be used especially by small municipalities and small municipalities, since they do not have the resources to implement appropriate IT developments. Therefore, on the one hand, with the ASP system now being introduced, we provide the municipalities with a single IT support to ensure the necessary obligations for the State on the software guaranteed by the State, with updates and legislative follow-ups guaranteed by the State. On the other hand, the related but fully independent system, which uses data jointly, is the so-called ICIR system, which simplifies the provision of the data required for the different tasks. It is often heard from local government workers that they need to provide a wide variety of data, and this data provision takes a great deal of time, while in many cases the interpretation of these data is inadequate. The IKIR system allows the data submitted to be treated in a uniform manner by the State. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-193	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the congressman.
u2017-05-15-194	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer. I think it is in all our interests - to live anywhere in this country - to use this modernisation effort. The current industrial revolution or digitalization requires us to live - wherever we are in the country - with all the achievements of IT technology, its potential and its efficiency-enhancing power. As the Secretary of State said, by modernising our local governments, we will make sure that the state and the settlements are able to be as close as possible to each other with this opportunity. So thank you again, and I would also like to ask that you really can provide the best possible resources for this development area. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-195	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Secretary of State Pogács.
u2017-05-15-196	Thank you. This system allows the IKIR system to group the data already submitted and existing in the State, without additional reporting obligations for municipal workers at the notaries' office, to provide such a preparatory and management information menu, which, with appropriate rights, also allows local authorities to use these data, which is particularly useful in my view because the municipalities will be able to compare themselves with the costs of the tasks carried out by themselves in other municipalities. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] So we can take a big step towards standardising. We are also using EU funds to do this, and the programme is developing properly. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-197	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question:. What is the explanation? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-05-15-198	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I really want to look for an explanation for a general problem right now. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Finally an honest word.]] I've seen this a lot. I'd like to give you a specific example. A public institution has acquired IT tools from EU support and programmes, IT programmes, and, as in all public procurement, it has estimated its value, it has estimated how much it will cost. He estimated that the value of public procurement would be HUF 4 515 246 109. [[17.10]] When he received the offers, it was a miracle of miracles, but it was literally a miracle of miracles, a sum of HUF 4 515 246 109. I'd like to know what the explanation is. There may be two: one is that it was a miracle, but mathematically this is possible, but the probability is extremely small; the other is that the later successful bidder was already there to make the offer, and he was the one who looked through it little by little, and he made these estimates. And that's illegal, and obviously not in his right mind. My main question is if you have any other explanation for this. It is very difficult to imagine, by the way, that there are about 800 people working in this institution, and obviously there is also a major IT department in this institution, so it is not very likely that an expert who happens to be working at the later winning company was asked by accident. It doesn't really explain that it's a special thing, because it's not about that, but there are a lot of companies that can supply IT tools and deliver programs. So my question is, how can this absolutely amazing penny match. Thank you.
u2017-05-15-199	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Mr. Secretary, please.
u2017-05-15-200	Mr President, Dear fellow Member, The Parliament could rest assured that it has now really asked his question honestly. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Anyone who may have had doubts as to how sincere he was before could now be confirmed in this regard, so thank you specifically for the record for pointing out that he has now asked this question honestly. In addition, I would like you to ask this question more precisely, in case this takes place in a one-minute response, because I can only answer the specific question if I get to know the specific issue of IT investment or organizational development, and, as in any case you have raised, the Secretary of State responsible for the development of the European Union, or our internal audit group or other authority, if necessary. As far as the valuation of public procurement procedures is concerned, I regret to say that, in the vast majority of cases and with a few exceptions, there is a higher price than the estimated price, too, the cheapest offer. The press is full of news that the public procurement author, whether it be a municipality or a state, estimates the expected cost of the investment at the moment of the publication of the public procurement, and the cheapest offer is far above the expected cost level. Of course, this leads to a number of issues: a lack of funding or a decision-making mechanism that the State had to regulate. Today, the regulation looks like the ministries have been given a mandate for a 15-percent additional commitment, the Ministry of National Economy involves a judicial expert between 15-30 percent, and a surplus commitment of over 30 per cent is only possible for exceptional State interests. So let's try to manage and regulate this situation. I lead the projects back, unlike you, to the fact that the preparation of projects is not precise, accurate and not good, there are many cases of haste, which later goes to the quality of the operation. But if I get the specific case, I can answer your question with all honesty. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-201	I thank the Minister for his reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2017-05-15-202	Thank you very much. I am a little disappointed because he said that all my corruption information was followed and investigated by the National University of Public Service, so exactly where firewalls, computer programs and tools were acquired for HUF 4 515 246 109, and this was estimated precisely for a penny. So I'm still interested in what's going on. Unfortunately, I see very, very often that for a penny there is the exact same as otherwise very complicated public procurement, for which it is not about buying a car or anything, but about something that has to be prepared for many months. Obviously, if you just look at the company that's there for the preparation, it's been several months in time, and maybe just a few weeks for the other company to submit the offer, then, obviously, the competitive neutrality is damaged.
u2017-05-15-203	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Minister János Lázár is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-05-15-204	The Public Procurement Act does not grant any exemption or exemption from the need to prescribe a procedure for a specific specification and is expected to receive an offer and a quality for the specific specification. When I was a mayor, I knew that if we wanted to have an Ákos concert in the city, we had to put out a public procurement procedure for the Ákos concert in the hope that there were more Ákos in the country. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] who is going to hold an Ákos concert, even though it was due to the fact that there was one Ákos who was going to hold the concert, but was still subject to public procurement. So let us not rule out the fact that there are unfortunately European Union bullshit in the procurement procedure. The reason I'm careful with the questions you asked me is because the last time you said that you went to Kistelek, there's a concrete road that leads to nothing; I pissed myself off on it, I stopped on my way home, I walked through the concrete road, and the concrete road didn't lead to nothing, but to the sewage treatment plant. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy: It was the Maestro!]] So the congressman wasn't right about that either. You said there was no activity in the incubator; you were wrong about that, because, true, in a subtropical way, baling straw was stored in the incubator, so it was used for something. [[Defiance.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-205	Thank you very much for the Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Imre Horváth, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-05-15-206	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I think there's a lot of talk in this House about retirement. I think that this social class is the one who has already done its part, and we can expect these retired people to be raised in the maintenance and upbringing of families. I would therefore like to remind the Secretary of State in a outline of the measures that have been taken to prejudice the current situation of pensioners. One of the most important things is that social security is no longer included in the Fundamental Law. The private pension system has been shattered, the disability system has been adapted, the pension system has been tightened, early retirement has been abolished, the contribution ceiling has been abolished, the minimum pension has been left unchanged. This is also supported by the fact that there has been a lot of tightening up of aid and care in the social sphere. Therefore, it is likely that most pensioners, namely 43 000 pensioners, will be working announced legally in 2016, but it is likely that more people will be in such a situation after the tightening up and therefore even more. According to the regulation and the law, for those who pay social security as a pensioner, 0.5 percent of gross salary per year is a pension increase. To date, this has been requested, and no request has been made; a regulation has been issued that this amount of 0,5 per cent has to be paid retroactively by 31 October 2017. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I ask the Secretary of State: why did you hold back this payment for ten months?
u2017-05-15-207	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-05-15-208	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, However, I think that many examples of recent years can be set, as opposed to the period before 2010, when pensioners were able to feel a lot easier, whether in the growth of their income or in the reduction of their expenses, to get the respect they had not received before 2010. We can remember the replacement of old wives from Ferenc Gyurcsány, or we can remember that they have recently competed on who submitted and who accepted the 13th month pension. On the other hand, Fidesz-KDNP undertook to maintain the purchasing value of pensions, we raised pensions by 23 percent, which represents a 9.5 percent increase in purchasing value. An important part of sure old age is the so - called substitution rate - which means what percentage of your salary you can expect when you retire. In socialist times, if a person retired, 54 percent of his active earnings could be expected as pensioners, almost 70 percent in the Fidesz-KDNP period, 67 percent is what they can count on now, so they can count on more than two thirds of their active-age earnings. In addition, with the reduction of the rent, they had savings in a condominium, say HUF 88 thousand per year, but in case it is district heating, HUF 83 thousand, the savings in the family house are HUF 116 thousand. After 40 years of service and child rearing, mothers or women can retire, which has affected 190 thousand women positively. It is also important that a person should not be unemployed before retirement, rather than count his pension after a low salary, but should be employed as high as possible. [[17.20]] Today, the employment of seven of the ten people who are about to retire is facilitated by the job protection action plan, because these benefits will be used afterwards. This means that, on average, 340 thousand people over the age of 55 have jobs every month because of the job protection action. And what you said as a specific matter, honourable Member, I think it is a benefit for many people that they do not need to be asked for, but that they are now automatically provided by the pension insurance company. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-209	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2017-05-15-210	Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry, but I'm not here for a history lesson, I asked you a question; I could talk more about this matter myself. This is about the fact that in 2016, 43 thousand people's additions, the 0.5 percent increase, were withheld by you. Why? No money in the pension fund? My other question is, will you pay the interest on this ten-month retention? Thank you very much. I can't accept your answer.
u2017-05-15-211	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-15-212	Thank you very much. Fortunately, there is no need to accept the answer in this genre, but it is important to know that the increase will be established retroactively from the time, as I said, automatically, when, if the application was submitted, the data subject would have been entitled at the earliest. So I think it's a good thing for all pensioners, but at least no one can walk. I think that we have tried to introduce automation that is favourable to pensioners in the previous administrative procedure and elsewhere, and that is the case with the pension increase. That's the same with the half-percent rule you mentioned. You'll get these automatically now. I think this actually means cutting red tape for everyone if they don't have to deal with it themselves. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-213	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 5:21. We've reached the end of the immediate questioning. We now have a motion to negotiate a series of requests for inclusion. The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, T/144990. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. [[Noise.]] My fellow Members, if I may not disturb you, I would ask you with due respect, we are discussing the next agenda. Thank you. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Ákos Hadházy, the rapporteur of the agenda, within a five-minute timeframe. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-15-214	Thank you very much. Mr President, It is no secret that this is also our proposal, this proposal for a constitutional amendment is obviously about the expansion of Paks. Paks expansion has three risks, one of which is the safety risk, the safety risk is obviously not as high as, say, the previous power plant or older power plants, but this safety risk is not zero percent. It's real. However, there is a risk in which we say it's almost 100 percent. This is the financial risk, the fact that it will never pay off, at least what we know about it, the studies that are public, they all say that it will never pay us back, but it would cost us 4,000 billion forints. This means that four million times one million, so every Hungarian family must put at least one million forints into this business. The third risk, however, is not zero per cent, not almost 100 per cent, but 110 per cent: this is the risk of corruption. Unfortunately, the way it works today in Hungary, especially under the current governance, is that we can be sure that this investment will cost 10-20-30-40 percent more. So there are very serious risks, not to mention that if you look at the safety risk as close to zero percent, but not zero percent, then everyone should have the right to decide on this. But the financial risks are so high that it is clearly people's concern. For this reason, we have proposed that it is mandatory to ask people in a referendum over a certain amount of investment of a certain value. I mean, once again, if you think about it, that's four billion forints four million times a million. So 4 million families have to pay at least one million forints for this party, so it's definitely worth asking people. Unfortunately, there is an actuality that this proposal would not be a mandatory referendum on the reconstruction of the Kelebian railway line, the reconstruction of the Belgrade-Budapest railway line, even though it is a thousand billion forints, and there is a thousand million forints. So it may need to be amended, but at the moment, there's no obvious chance that this constitutional amendment is going to happen. So it would definitely be appropriate. In Hungary, the current government previously considered this important, the institution of the referendum to be a very important institution. It was important to this government, and it was important to János Áder, and it was important to the Prime Minister. When we ask you here and say that we are not satisfied that the committee rejects this request without a hearing, we want to confront the ruling party with themselves, with their former self, when, of course, this institution was considered very, very important at the time. Once again, I would like to remind this House that the Justice Committee has swept this proposal off the table without comment or any justification, and I would ask for your support for this. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-15-215	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2017-05-15-216	Thank you very much. Mr President, My fellow Members, the Jobbik basically supports the proposals that want to facilitate or extend the possibility of referendums, because we are in favour of asking people about all the issues that we consider important for the people to decide directly according to the principles of democracy. Although I am not 100 percent sure that society can really be seen with an adequate level of knowledge in the peaceful use of nuclear energy and in the field of nuclear power plant expansion as a professional issue, in order to achieve an objective referendum result in this respect. Well, we have seen, in fact, pro and versus, whether from Fidesz or from LMP, that these questions may be decided in the interests of everyone, and that one side obviously sees a great profit from the investment, and the other side sees a political opportunity, like a last straw, to stay in Parliament, because obviously there are a few hundred thousand camps in Hungary that can be mobilized. If we're talking about nuclear energy, Jobbik is basically neither a fierce enemy nor an unconditional patron. We would like professional questions to be decided on in professional bodies, but we support the inclusion of this issue in the series of questions, precisely so that we can explain our arguments in the general debate, why we think this, what we think, and why we do not consider the referendum to be a necessary instrument to decide on this issue. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-15-217	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, MSZP Group.
u2017-05-15-218	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Although we do not necessarily support the patching-up of the Fundamental Law, we did not participate in the adoption of the original Fundamental Law, but I must say now that we must make another exception. Although this amendment has a specific reason for what Ákos Hadházy said as the author that this is Paks II. whether the LMP has a specific proposal. However, this proposal may go beyond that, since it would ask for the opinion of voters above a specific threshold, in fact, after the amendment or if it was adopted. I think it is right to broaden the institution of the referendum. The referendum is a very important democratic instrument, the most direct means for voters to influence political decisions. [[17 .30]] We have also seen very good examples of this in recent years, that, although Fidesz has rewritten the fundamental laws and significantly reduced the possibilities of referendums in Hungary, it has backed down in two cases, for example, in connection with the initiatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party. For example, the question of the shop shutter on Sunday when the original proposal was withdrawn after the question was verified - no wonder, as two thirds of the people opposed the lockdown on Sunday - was also the case of the sale of land that was stopped when we finally submitted it to the authorities with a sufficient number of signatures, even though there they tried to make this referendum impossible by administrative means. So there are good examples that the people can control fidesz power with the instrument of referendum, so we will support any proposal that strengthens and broadens the institution of referendums. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-05-15-219	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak on behalf of the factions, on behalf of other factions. I don't see any contact. I will ask Mr Ákos Hadházy whether he wishes to respond as rapporteur to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have a two-minute time frame at your disposal.
u2017-05-15-220	Thank you very much. It may be an exaggeration to call this event a debate, because once again no one on the part of the governing party has spoken to it, either on the part of the government or on the part of Members. I think that this shows very well the change in their minds to former colleagues, to colleagues who previously had a referendum as something of great importance, and now a proposal for a resolution, a proposal for a resolution on this will be voted out without simply being justified. It is not a good thing when opposition parties talk back to each other, because there was a comment here in this so-called debate from my opposition colleague, who said that this is important for the LMP only because it brings political capital. I'll tell you one more time, I don't think they fully feel the weight of this either. It is 4,000 billion forints, 4,000 million times 1 million forints, which could be 2 million forints per family. This is a huge amount of money, and I think it would be completely irresponsible for an opposition party to say that this is not an important issue, and the Hungarian people cannot decide on it. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-15-221	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws on foreign affairs and other laws relating to the provision of permanent external service and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow up. The government referral is T/15069. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-05-15-222	Mr. Vice President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee on 11 May 2017 is the House Rule 46. T/15069 on the amendment of certain acts concerning the administration of foreign affairs and other laws relating to the provision of permanent external service. The Committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 24 votes in favour, no votes against, with 9 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains the motion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the one hand, and the own initiative of the Committee on Legislative Affairs, on the other, which sets out three points of the committee's proposal. In addition to language positioning and editing clarifications, the proposed amendment, supported, takes into account the possibility of continuing employment in third countries for persons in professional service with law enforcement bodies and, therefore, the extension of the bill to these persons is justified. I also draw attention to the fact that the assistance provided by Hungary to foreign states and other foreign organisations in the form of goods, money or technical assistance will be implemented within the framework of a single programme called Hungary Helps. In view of this, it is necessary to name the programme in the mandate to be given to the Government in the amendment of the law. With the adoption of the proposal, the foreign affairs administration can become even more smooth, and I ask for your support. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-223	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Mikola István, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[Dr. István Mikola: In the end.]] Yes, Mr Secretary of State has indicated that he would like to speak at the end. At the end of the day, you will have 10 minutes for Mr. Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-05-15-224	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In the general debate on the bill, we have already discussed that the amendment is, above all, intended to further strengthen the social security of the families of those who are displaced. Then my fellow Member Mesterházy said that this is a good law, but not comprehensive enough; our fellow Member Tibor Bana blamed the government for saving on Hungarian diplomats. Well, if we take a look at the chapter on the draft budget for next year's Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, we can see that 180 percent of the time spent on personal benefits at foreign representations is not what I would call saving. Jobbik also suggested that a public tender should always be put in place for diplomatic posts. We cannot support this, since the supply of foreign services must primarily be done from within the Ministry. Saying that each application should be made available to all would mean ignoring the readiness of the Ministry's staff. However, we agree that in the event that the place of service cannot be filled from the inside, a public tender may be launched. This may be necessary in particular for posts requiring special preparedness, such as the external economy or the agricultural attaché. In addition to legal issues, we propose three major amendments compared to the original bill. Firstly, in the future, the diplomatic passport will also be awarded to the President and Vice-President of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, as, for example, the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, which has previously been added to the list of rightholders, this authority has a wide international network of contacts. Secondly, a clarification has been included in the text, according to which, if a person performs several administrative and technical jobs at the same time during his external service, he can receive the higher of the two tasks, or even a few percent more. The third, as has already been mentioned here, concerns the Hungary Helps programme, and since this goes beyond the bill, let me have a few words on this matter, fellow Members. The Hungarian government is convinced that the causes of immigration must be dealt with on the ground, i.e. not immigrants, or we can also say that the problem must be brought to Europe, but that help must be brought to the site, to the crisis zone. The opposition often tends to forget that, in addition to border protection, which is our fundamental duty under the Schengen rules, Hungary is making a number of efforts to do so. First of all, we contribute with some 150 soldiers to the fight against the terrorist organization Islamic State, and we are also present in Afghanistan with 100 people, the amount of our monetary offerings exceeds EUR 30 million. Brussels wants to force 1300 immigrants on us, while we receive 3000 scholarships under the Stipendium Hungaricum programme, or 3,000 scholarships, 60 percent of whom come from Muslim countries. The Hungarian state finances their training, accommodation, but even their visa and insurance costs some EUR 45 million. Anyone who says that Hungary is not helping, therefore, has a rather questionable awareness. [[17.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, At the Foreign Affairs Committee meeting, no one voted against the bill. Looking at these concerns, I think we have all the hope that this will happen in the final vote in the same way. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-225	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, Jobbik Group.
u2017-05-15-226	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In short, I would like to respond to what my fellow Member Zsolt Csenger-Zalán has said, who referred back to the general debate when I spoke as the lead speaker of Jobbik about the government's desire to save on diplomats, and there is no merit in paying. Yes, it is true that, on the basis of the proposal, these persons will be entitled to currency and flat-rate reimbursement, so there is a certain shift, and this must be acknowledged. But overall, we see that the kind of material appreciation and otherwise moral appreciation that Minister János Lázár spoke about earlier is not going to happen, as Minister pointed out during a committee hearing on European affairs that Hungarian diplomats were the least paid, which was brought up to the level of the Visegrád Four. However, what we are seeing now is that this amendment does not really make this settlement clear from the other side in a comprehensive way. So this is one of our serious reservations about the proposal. As lead speakers, I have also said that if these concerns cannot be addressed by the speakers of the government and the governing parties, we cannot support this bill and we will abstain in the final vote. And this is probably going to happen just because, in the other case, which was also mentioned, we do have reservations about the fact that a substantial change is taking place here compared to the previous one, and I believe in a negative direction. For so far, according to the law in force, the diplomatic post has been announced by the Minister for Foreign Policy by means of a tender, and this is now being changed to an internal tender. In some cases, this is acceptable, but I have not heard any valid arguments as to why they should do the same. So these are the two main arguments that make us unable to support this proposal before us, which, as I have said before, of course, there are also parts that are forward-looking, but in general they remain in it, and this is clearly a step in the direction of the closed system, so I do not think that the professional aspects will be sufficiently highlighted here, as Zsolt Csenger-Zalán tried to emphasise. So, obviously, I did not wish to criticise and criticize the suitability of those who are already in stock, if any, at, say, ministerial level, but, overall, I say that this amendment, which is happening compared to the previous one, is just counterproductive to professionalism. So because of these main arguments and because of the sweeping down of our amending proposal, we cannot support this bill and we will abstain on tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-15-227	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, Fidesz Group.
u2017-05-15-228	Thank you very much. Because of the question raised by my fellow Member, Bana, I had a two-minute push. With regard to personal benefits, I can report that mathematics today is 180 percent, that's a pity to argue, that's what's in the budget. On the other issue, I think that the appreciation of diplomats, career diplomats and the appreciation of his special, long-term expertise are primarily applications from within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the event of failure from there, there is an open tender or if special qualifications are required. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-229	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform my fellow Members that we are negotiating on a time-frame, so each faction has its own timeframe, so that they can speak or speak freely within the time available. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, who will speak on behalf of the independent Members. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-05-15-230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, This bill, which lies before us, has never been good, and I have to say that it is worse than it was two years ago when this bill was drafted, because it has been very disrupted by the system and the things that have been very nicely regulated so far have now fallen into a law, and despite the fact that it has been promised that there will be a comprehensive bill, which specifically applies to the career of foreign service - and that would be really necessary - this bill has nothing to do with it. I would add that in the second year, we will see the second amendment without half of the implementing regulations being ready. So you can see the haste, creating the appearance of busy work, an absolute accounting approach. I think it is insane that they are now finding out in the amendment to the second amendment that those who are in the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Home Affairs and under their direction should not be subject to the law. So I think it's actually amazing. They also need to realise now that cash payment does not work in countries where the security of the banking system does not allow this to happen. So it's crazy to have to go back to these things after two years. They didn't do any good to diplomats: they have to deal with all the real estate issues, all the small-scale stuff. Totally marginal things are regulated by law, like that an apartment is furnished or not furnished. I'm gonna wonder if the next amendment might be what the color of the wall should be at your foreign representations. So I think it's a joke, it's a very bad law, it's something that needs to be repealed immediately in 2018, and it is necessary to create a comprehensive law of predictability that governs the career of foreign service in substance, because now this law means about the need for real estate law experts to be diplomats. When will you have time to represent the interests of this country, besides all this nonsense - forgive me for saying so? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That's what they're supposed to do. So I don't support this bill. Thank you. [[Sándor Burány applauds.]]
u2017-05-15-231	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak on this item. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr István Mikola, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2017-05-15-232	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Firstly, I would like to thank the committees and all those who have made comments on this bill. We considered all comments, all comments, or at least tried to do so. I would like to point out that, in this bill, there has actually been an amendment to the Foreign Service Act that has taken into account the experience, observations and practical aspects of the past period, and has also made use of certain technical clarifications. I should like to mention a few things: the matter of the internal tender. The career diploma is being trained somewhere. So, in general, the practice is that in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, or in the former Ministry of Foreign Affairs, internships, professionally trained colleagues go out on foreign services, and then return to the same Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This does not mean that it is an obligation that cannot be deviated from, since the practice shows that we differ from it several times. But the most effective thing in terms of foreign services is to send people within the government agency who have gained experience, who have acquired professional knowledge, to the foreign service. I would just like to add to the personal benefits that there could, of course, be more, and in an international comparison - we have said this - we are not doing very well on this issue, and I have experienced this, as I have also been serving four years of abroad. Usually, the remuneration of foreign representations working alongside us is better than ours, but some progress in this bill can be found in this area. I thank the committees, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee for their comments, and we have heard them here, and we will take them into account, of course. [[17.50]] And I would like to address one more important issue very briefly. We consider the Hungarian Helps trademark to be very significant, because it is a trademark. The world is striving to bring development and renovation resources together globally, including aid. This situation has forced us to do so, as we attend donor conferences almost weekly where huge international money offers are being made, but the results of this very enthusiastic voluntary contribution are not always seen. So now we want to be part of a global process that, by bringing together global development support resources and sources of aid, is about to complete the largest programme in the history of the United Nations in the field of implementation and implementation of the SDGs. So this is the Sustainable Development of 2030 Agenda, which not only serves to make improvements in different parts of the world, but also, sooner or later, to achieve the very desirable and long-term inevitable objective of launching a consolidation programme in those crisis situations, in areas designated for places of migration, and of developing-renewal sources on appropriate indicator systems and evaluation systems, using all the techniques of modern management, to make it possible to follow and transparent that the last rolling forint, dollar, or even euro can be delivered where, taking into account these global aspects, the greatest need arises. Hungary Helps will be a trademark, which is important for Hungary, as it brings together the resources that we spent a year, and the trademark will always indicate that Hungary is very actively involved in achieving common goals as a member of the international community. Finally, I would like to say very briefly that we, who feel every aspect of foreign service regulation, think that this is a step forward. I would like to say to Mrs Márta Demeter that, of course, it is not a perfect solution; a more comprehensive, deeper and perhaps longer-term solution could be found. I say that perhaps, because the international situation produces different events so often, or we are opening new representations and consulates, so this area is so dynamic and moving that it is difficult to imagine a regulation that stands out for years or even decades. So it is likely that this issue will be brought back before this House several times, and as it is now, we will try to transfer the best experience, the best information, data and solutions through Parliament's help in the newer and newer renewable systems. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-233	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2016 CLV on official statistics follows a series of laws. The Commission's reports and discussion of the draft amending proposal on the amendment of the Act in the context of the implementation of the Act. The government referral is T/15070. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that this proposal is being discussed as a minority agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-05-15-234	Mr. Vice President, Dear House, At the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 11 May 2017, members discussed the 2016 CLV on official statistics for each law. T/15070. Bill No. 1. The board of the house rules 46. It submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 24 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 7 abstentions. The summarised amendment included in part the proposals adopted by the Judicial Committee and in some cases the Legislative Committee introduced codification clarifications in the proposal, but there was no debate on the subject. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill to be adopted amends laws which lay down rules for the management of administrative data sources and which exclude or restrict the possibility of using them for statistical purposes. Furthermore, the amendments are linked to the entry into force of the Statistics Act on 1 January and the implementation of European Union legislation on European statistics, and are essential to ensure consistency with them. In my view, the proposals contribute to reducing the burden on reporting agents and contribute to the continuous improvement of data quality. Please support the motion. Thank you for the audition. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-235	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the authors. [[Nándor Csepreghy: Not now.]] Mr State Secretary points out that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, As the designated Judicial Committee has not presented a rapporteur, I now take the floor and give the floor to the Ukrainian ethnic spokesperson Hartyányi Yaroslava, rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary related to the debate. Speaking lady, you have the floor.
u2017-05-15-236	Шановний пане Голово! ШановнΓ державнΓ Збори! Mr President, Dear House, On the basis of the additional information obtained in the meantime, I am adding the following to my comment on the legislative proposal, which was submitted on 20 April 2017. On the basis of my discussion in the KSH, following my comments, I received a preparation of the bill, which, in addition to the details of the amendment to the paragraphs, predicts and gives an opinion on the expected comments that (1) the most likely concerns about the bill will be of a data protection nature. Since there is not yet an enforcement order that contains the method of procedure and guarantees in particular, we do not have the possibility to give a specific opinion. The current data request forms of the HCSO do not refer to sensitive data that are in line with the laws currently in force. We have no information as to whether or not these requests will change based on the adoption of this amendment. 2. In addition to the legal basis for data protection, there may be a question during the debate as to whether it might be dangerous to concentrate on one place with so many data, including specific data. According to the submission, identity data should either be deleted or stored separately, which can be temporarily restored for official statistical purposes. The question is what will be the exact content of this regulation. It is a matter of reporting. According to the register received from the KSH, there are more than 2 thousand local minority self-governments, of which 91 are known as data providers, which are likely to carry out activities based on cooperation agreements. In order to prepare a so-called cooperation agreement on the provision of data, in particular with regard to its size of more than 2 000, a sample of documents is proposed to accompany the enforcement order of the law which, as far as possible, excludes the provision of data in accordance with Article 28 of the Act. Article 8 of the Agreement provides for a hundred interpretations and the need for subsequent amendments. It is proposed that the agreement should be drawn up by the local government acting as a data provider on behalf of the local minority self-government and act on the basis thereof. I must reiterate that it is possible to manage and publish sensitive data for any purpose with the voluntary consent of that individual, so it is particularly important to justify and enforce the purpose. We support its adoption, in addition to the specific and comprehensive consideration and inclusion of these words in the bill. just like that, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Thank you very much for your attention. [[18.00]]
u2017-05-15-237	Thank you very much, Madam Speaker. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. I'm asking if anyone wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, who wishes to speak on behalf of the rapporteur. Here you go.
u2017-05-15-238	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Allow me, on behalf of the Government, to thank Parliament for the constructive debate that took place between the opening debate and the current final debate. At the time, we promised that KSH would be open to all initiatives and meetings that would help to resolve the doubts that have been expressed here in the last debate. I trust that this bill will bring us closer to keeping the position it has acquired between the statistical offices of the various Member States of the European Union with its professional work. I am pleased that the last few weeks have been able to remove this issue from the margins of political give-and-takes. Thank you again, on behalf of the government, to all Members. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-15-239	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and the final amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/15063. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-05-15-240	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee on 11 May 2017 is the House Rule 46. T/15063 on prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. and the committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 26 votes in favour, no votes against, with 7 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains the legislative committee's own motion. In addition to the concept of an existing transaction order and business relationship, in view of the practical experience, it became necessary to clarify and clarify the terms of the business relationship in the bill in order to facilitate the application of the law. In the context of the amending proposal, the concept of a transaction, including operations for the use of a service within the scope of the service provider's activities, or ad hoc transaction orders, will be included in the bill as a new element. The latter shall include all transactions that take place in the context of a case-by-case relationship between the customer and the service provider under a contract for the use of the service covered by the service provider's activities. In addition, this conceptual change needs to be consistently guided through the full text of the bill by the use of the terms "seller" and "sort order" in the new term. With the adoption of the bill, the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing can become even more effective, and all of this can be achieved through a European Union, i.e. a Community cooperation. I call for the support of this House. Thank you so much for listening. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-05-15-241	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Ms Ágnes Hornung, Secretary of State, if she wishes to speak on behalf of the rapporteur, or at a later stage in the debate. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] I give you the floor, Madam Secretary, and inform you that your timeframe is 10 minutes. (To be indicated:) Would you like to speak at the end of the debate? Yes, Madam Secretary, of course we accept your request or your signal. So, at the end of the debate, she will have the opportunity to speak. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. I would like to inform you that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate, as we are negotiating on a time-frame. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Vantara of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2017-05-15-242	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Given that the bill on the prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and the bill on the implementation of financial and financial restrictive measures imposed by the European Union and the UN Security Council were discussed together in this House, I would like to present the two proposals together in the final debate. The development and professionalism of the two laws is well demonstrated by the fact that the proposed amendment has come up with a total of one, which was not supported by the Economic Committee at its meeting on 25 April and the Commission's amendment has not been submitted. At the same time, the Legislative Committee has made amendments to both proposals at its meeting last week, the most important of which was just presented by my fellow Member, László Vécsey. So I'd just like to give you a summary of those. The T/15063. A new element was introduced by the TAB amendment submitted to the Bill No. 1 in the form of a new concept of a transaction, as well as a proposal for a number of language clarification changes. Furthermore, in order to facilitate the application of practical law, it was necessary to make the term. special training, more general, and it was introduced on a number of points by the amendment. T/15064. The TAB's amendment eliminated the conflict in the context of the proposed legislation on the prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. In addition, language positioning changes and clarifications have been formulated. Ladies and gentlemen, As I have said in the general debate, I believe that the new proposals, together with the amendments presented above, have greatly contributed to the protection of the financial system against attempts to launder the proceeds of crime and to provide financial support to terrorist organisations. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support both proposals in tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you for the floor.
u2017-05-15-243	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, an independent representative. Here you go.
u2017-05-15-244	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, it's actually very cool and commendable that they think it's necessary to fight money laundering and terrorist financing. This would, in principle, be an eligible target. I would add that, at present, more legislation is in place, which provides relatively strict regulation. It is true that everything can always be tightened up and built into security. But I have one question. What is the value of this law when the government opens other loopholes by law, precisely to circumvent these rules? They are now making a new law, specifically to combat terrorist financing and money laundering, while, for example, there is a law establishing settlement bonds, which can be said to allow government bonds not only to be sold individually, but also by intervening offshore companies in an unprecedented way in the world, God knows who can buy and God knows what kind of money, what kind of businesses, what individuals can buy Hungarian government bonds and move freely in the Schengen area and in Hungary. I think that this will kill any effort that should actually be made to curb money laundering and terrorist financing. So, specifically, the settlement bond structure is a money laundry. A money laundry that the Hungarian state unfortunately assists with. I mean, it's uncontrollable where the money that these criminals launder through offshore companies comes from. [[18.10]] I think that this law, which is before us now, cannot guarantee anything as long as the government opens a loophole to circumvent it, so this bill cannot be supported in this way. Thank you.
u2017-05-15-245	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak on this agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Agnes Hornung.
u2017-05-15-246	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, As we have already mentioned here in the opening speech and at the meeting of the Economic Commission and the Legislative Committee, the adoption of the bill before us, the bill on the prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, will achieve a number of key objectives: on the one hand, Hungary will comply with its legal harmonisation and international obligations in the European Union, and will also implement the recommendations of the competent Council of Europe's Anti-money laundering Committee, the Moneyval's previously adopted anti-money laundering system, and, on the other hand, the practical experience gained so far in Hungary will be incorporated into the new law for the modernisation of the regulation. In response, I would therefore say that the bill before us fulfils the task of harmonising legislation required by the European Union, so it fully fulfils this objective. Dear Parliament, As has also been said earlier, no amendments were tabled to the bill during the general debate or the Commission's amendment initiated by the Parliament's Economic Committee during the detailed debate. Most of the amendments made by the Legislative Committee include codification, technical and conflict-of-law amendments. In addition, substantive amendments have been tabled on certain issues, which have also been highlighted by speakers before us. These substantive amendments aim, on the one hand, to clarify the provisions authorising the regulation and, on the other hand, to provide the institution operating the Posta Clearing Centre with a longer period of preparation, on the other hand, and, on the other hand, to introduce the concept of a transaction with a view to facilitating the application of practical law, and, on the other hand, to clarify the text of the bill in respect of electronic money and to make the term "special training" more general in relation to the training provided by the service providers, in order to facilitate the application of practical law. Dear Parliament, With the adoption of the bill, as has already been highlighted in several circles, Hungary will significantly improve the effectiveness, transparency and functionality of the domestic anti-money laundering and terrorist financing system, and will also fulfil its European Union and international obligations, thus demonstrating Hungary's unbroken commitment to the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. At the same time, I would like to thank the Parliament for its constructive work in drawing up the bill, and I would like to ask you to support the bill and the amendments tabled with your vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-247	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the implementation of the financial and financial restrictive measures imposed by the European Union and the United Nations Security Council, together with the discussion of the draft amending proposal, follow up. The government referral is T/15064. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-05-15-248	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 11 May 2017, the Legislative Committee discussed and discussed the T/15064 on the implementation of financial and financial restrictive measures imposed by the European Union and the UN Security Council. About bill No. 1. The board of the house rules 46. It submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 26 votes in favour, no votes against and 7 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains two substantive provisions: on the one hand, the clarification, clarification and clarification of the provisions of the power to issue a decree to the Minister of National Economy and the President of the Hungarian National Bank, in order to ensure fullness and proper enforcement of the mandate, and, on the other hand, in the context of the proposed law on the prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, it was necessary to abolish the existing conflict of laws, as a result of which the legislative proposal, in view of the above mentioned, was deleted. Ladies and gentlemen, In my opinion, the bill will continue to protect the domestic financial system and the fair majority society more strongly than ever, as well as to support our international cooperation against money laundering and to strengthen international action against terrorist financing. Please contribute with your votes to the adoption of the bill. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-249	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Ms Ágnes Hornung, State Secretary, if she wishes to speak at this stage of the debate or later. [[Agnes Hornung on Anna's signal:]] Thank you, the Secretary of State, for indicating that she intends to speak at a later stage in the debate; then she will have a timeframe of ten minutes. Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. Of course, there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate because of the time frame discussion. I will ask if one of my fellow Members wishes to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Agnes Hornung. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2017-05-15-250	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Members, As has been said, as international terrorism intensifys, increasing resources need to be used at both international and domestic levels to prevent the operation of existing terrorist organisations and to reduce their financing opportunities. In order to strengthen this fight, the government has also presented the bill before us, in parallel with the bill we have just discussed. This bill ensures better implementation of EU and UN obligations in this area and facilitates the application of practical law. It has also been said during the discussion of the previous bill that, in the context of the general debate held by Parliament, a single amendment was tabled, which was therefore discussed by the Parliament's Economic Committee. The Commission's amendment was finally not tabled and was therefore not adopted. The proposals for amendment to the bill, which were subsequently tabled by the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly, are essentially codification, legal, linguistic, and conflict-of-law amendments in the context of the anti-money laundering bill. As a matter of substance, clarification of the empowering provisions of the proposal was proposed in order to ensure completeness and the proper enforceability of the delegation of power. Once again, I would like to thank you for your constructive attitude in the drafting of the bill, and the lack of comments shows that this has been a successful work; and I would also like to ask you to vote in favour of this legislative amendment proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-251	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. [[18.20]] Dear Parliament, Following a series of proposals on advertising tax 2014 CHAPTER XXII The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral T/14684. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-15-252	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee on 11 May 2017 is the House Rule 46. On the basis of Article 4 of the Act on advertising tax, it was negotiated by XXII of 2014 on advertising tax. T/14684. The Committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 24 votes in favour, 10 against and no abstentions. The summarised amendment included a motion to close a detailed debate by the Economic Committee. The amendment, supported by the Legislative Committee, reduces the rate of advertising tax to 7.5 per cent and ensures that taxable persons do not have to comply with the tax liability already calculated in their submission of the 2016 tax year by 30 June 2017. It is also necessary to bring into force by 31 May 2017 the transitional provision on the tax advance payable in 2017 in order not to constitute a tax advance for the direct cost of own-use advertising with the end of the obligation of own-use advertising tax. As stated at the TAB meeting, the European Commission's Competition DG objected to the fact that the tax rate is in the range, so it decided that the government would pay back the advertising tax paid to companies. As long as this repayment lasts, we can deduct this from the tax to be paid, so the tax will certainly not increase. I would add that the Government has, quite rightly, challenged this decision before the European Court of Justice. According to the proposal before us, the tax base would otherwise be reduced compared to the previous one, which is because the Commission has decided to classify the part of the advertising tax which is now exempt as de minimis aid. The purpose of the bill is therefore to ensure that companies with a low advertising tax base do not have to pay advertising taxes as far as possible. Therefore, according to the bill, 100 million forints would be exempt from tax. So that's all for the bill. I call for the support of this House. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-15-253	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion expressed in the committee is presented by Mr Sándor Burány in a seven-minute timeframe. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2017-05-15-254	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, At the committee's meeting, there were a number of tell-tales that the purpose of this bill was not, in fact, to harmonise the law. One of these telltale things was that the representative of the government who took part in the committee was simply unable to answer the question that, if, by the way, the Union has a problem with the tax system, not with the tax rate, but with the fixed tax system alone, as my former Fidesz fellow Member explained, what is the reason why the government is not simply proposing the abolition of the bands, but also the increase in the percentage rate of the tax, which the European Commission did not ask at all. This question, although simple enough, was simply not answered by the representative of the government. Another telltale thing is the haste that, while there is a precedent for Hungary to appeal to the European Court of Justice if it has serious objections to the application of EU law, while in other cases it is not followed by immediate action, its implementation, here the government, while turning to the European Court of Justice, at the same time immediately fulfilling Brussels' will and submitting amendments to the advertising law. Therefore, it is very simple. In fact, here the rate of tax, the percentage rates are rising, and what kind of repayment there is, in what system, is something that is vague and prolonged in time, but the increase in the rate of tax will be immediate. As a result, we cannot really talk about anything other than the fact that the government and Fidesz intend to restrict freedom of the press by using the tax instrument, by changing the tax laws, in particular by amending the law on advertising tax. It is simply the case that the press, which is independent of the government, dares to ask questions which still dares to follow up on the truth, will have its taxes increased, while the tax of the government's loyal footage media serving the propaganda machine will be well compensated by the government's paid advertisements. So this is the case. This will be the concrete practical consequence of this advertising tax law. Therefore, this is quite simply unsupportable. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-15-255	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr András Tállai, on behalf of the rapporteur, whether he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of two-minute speeches during the debate, as we are negotiating on a time-frame. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-15-256	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, It's an outrageous law, it's a flogging law, either in the nine percent version or in the 7.5 percent version. This is what my fellow Member, Mr Burány, said: you want to interfere harshly with the operation of the press, the media, and who may still be on his feet from independent media, you want to destroy it with a harsh, blackmailing tax. So you are not concerned with the fact that the European People's Party has already seriously considered whether you are a fascist party at all or you may still be part of the concept of the European People's Party. [[Turning his head toward Gábor Bányai:]] Yes, Congressman, as much as you shake your head, fascists had this method of ruining all other opinions. So you're gonna be hitting the legs instead of playing soccer, you can't hit a ball, you're gonna try to kick the legs. It would be good for them to think a little bit about how they want to create an unclean situation, and, let us say, how much damage they do to this country in the absence of investment promotion. This, especially in the media area, has also been reported in other investment areas. So it is quite clear that if we didn't count EU money, Hungary would have been bankrupt long ago. So you guys are like, thousands of billions of dollars a year. EU money is coming to Hungary, and I will give you a concrete number: in 2014, 6 percent of GDP came to Hungary. From this, you have been able to achieve it, and with your economic governance there has been about 3 percent economic growth; that is, 3 percent of 6 percent of the money. This is a very, very weak ratio, and the only way to put it on a somewhat more encouraging path is to try not to destroy investment confidence, but to try to restore it. [[18.30]] But with laws like this, they're just undermining investment confidence, because no investor can know when some government members' saliva will start, when the nation's gasman and his boss will start salivating, they'll want to take in a field, they'll want to dominate a market segment, and then that investor's assets will be wasted. You can see how industries have been destroyed, whether in financial terms, how MKB has become private, how MKB has been divided, how savings cooperatives have been minced into their own interests. The wealth of tens of thousands of small owners has been removed, eliminated, and wrapped into a circle of assets that is clearly in the interest of the Fidesz Moonyard. So this, what is happening here, on the one hand, is an assassination against freedom of the press, against freedom of speech, an assassination against independent media, and also an assassination against domestic legal certainty, because the investor who sees such cases and is not the only one, will not come to Hungary calmly, because he knows either from his own experience or through his experts that Hungary is a place where there is no legal certainty, where there can be such a case at any time that undesirable sectors will receive an extra tax, a special tax that cannot be tolerated under economic conditions. It's as it was said. Your footage with our taxpayers' money will get you those extra ads to get through this special tax, and those who go to the competition market will be ruined, according to your calculations. It's a cynical, crap attitude, and you're undermining democracy. Shame on you! Thank you. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP, among them: Yes! Applause from the benches of MSZP.]]
u2017-05-15-257	Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Legény has applied for a speech, MSZP. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-05-15-258	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us is very simply trying to solve a restructuring, it is called advertising tax, but it is practically trying to put in a better position, at the expense of other players, those who please the government in an area of economic or economic life, in a segment of Fidesz. Congressman Józsa said that Hungarian freedom of the press was also at risk. Technically, there is no new element in this. Fidesz is now trying to expand it to the media market in terms of its own scenario. It is called a advertising tax, and the essence is that we put the media that please Fidesz and the government in a position to put them in, even put them in a position of public order and advertising to stuff the media that pleases us or pleases us, who we do not like, we do not like, and we put them in an economically impossible position. Otherwise, the damage to the freedom of the press will inevitably be involved; we think it is unprecedented. Unfortunately, there have been several times that the government has tried to apply such solutions, obviously it cannot surprise you in particular, but we must say that this is expressly rejected, and we regard it as particularly harmful not only to the media market and not only to a segment of the economy, but also to the entire Hungarian public life. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-05-15-259	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am asking if anyone else would like to speak on this item. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-15-260	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I have to start with an extraordinary event. I must ask myself the words of Congressman István Józsa, because he has promoted the governing parties to Fascistism. I think you're a little out of line, Congressman. The competition with Jobbik may be a little dissuading for you, or, I don't know, putting you on the list. I think you need to apologize. I would like to suggest that the Member is given the floor in order after the agenda, and that he should do so. [[Dr. Simon Miklós applauds.]] And that is the substantive speech of the Hungarian Socialist Party to the bill: I would like to say to Mr Sándor Burány that there is a fixed tax system, not a lane, what is the difference. So the previous bill marked companies with turnover below 100 million as zero taxes, and the other key was 5.3 percent. This bill, on the other hand, exempts companies with turnover below 100 million. So this will be de minimis aid, and this is in line with the European Union. [[Sándor Burány intervenes.]] So I answered point one. Number two, the rush. There is no hurry, since the decision of the Commission of the European Union states that the law must be annulled in this form and has otherwise given the deadline until 8 March, and that it must be submitted to Parliament. So there is no hurry, what is more, we are running a little late, but hopefully the European Union will accept this. He says the payback's blurry. There's no blur in the repayment. The bill clearly states that, after the entry into force, the paid advertising tax will be credited to the company's current account and will be subject to the tax law, according to which you can choose to transfer it back to the tax authority, transfer it to another tax category or simply keep it in your current account. So the third question was answered. The fourth I cannot even interpret is that this tax is a restriction on freedom of the press. Mr. Józha mentioned that. If any tax is introduced, it would simply limit the freedom of the press, i.e. also VAT, corporate tax or social contribution tax. And it is completely incomprehensible that the media that are loyal to the government will be more favourable, because the very essence of the bill is that it applies equally to everyone. This was the European Union's expectation, which is exactly what this bill does. I can tell you that the bill meets the expectations of the European Union in everything. And, of course, it can be criticised, as with the introduction of all taxes, I would like to point out that there is such or similar type of taxation in several EU countries. So in international practice, this will be nothing new. As regards the speeches of the pro-government Members, I thank and trust that they will continue to support them tomorrow, the majority of Parliament, the majority of the pro-government members, will vote in favour of the bill and will therefore be adopted. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-05-15-261	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2011 CCIX on water utility services. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/15057. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-05-15-262	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/15057 on 11 May. The CCIX of 2011 on the water utility service submitted to the Commission. The Commission submitted a bill amending the Act and a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 25 votes in favour, 7 votes against and no abstentions. The summarised amendment contains the amendments proposed by the Economic Committee, which were also supported by our Committee. [[18.40]] These proposals for amendments cover, in principle, language positioning and editing amendments and technical specifications. In a few words, I would like to mention the proposal itself. The term Water Facility Fund is defined, the powers of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office are extended by examining the data provided to the e-közmű system, as well as amendments to investments in water utilities. However, the text also complies with a legal harmonisation obligation, thereby amending the provisions on consumers to be protected and clarifying that the obligation to connect the property to the network is an ex officio procedure initiated by the district office. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the bill before us does not mean any additional burden for users, i.e. it does not mean an increase in the water utility service fee. The proposal is in line with the government's reduction objectives and its achievements so far. On this basis, I would ask my honourable Members, this House, to express their support with their votes. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-15-263	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Zsolt Szabó State Secretary if he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[Dr. Zsolt Szabó says no.]] The Secretary of State indicates that he wishes to present his position at a later stage. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. I give the floor to Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, Jobbik Group.
u2017-05-15-264	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I also asked for the floor because, in the general debate, Jobbik explained its position in detail on this bill, and we explained in detail what we disagree with. At the same time, we have put questions to the Secretary of State, which, unfortunately, we have not been given an answer to. Therefore, as a last resort, I will try to rephrase these questions. I would very much ask the Secretary of State to give a substantive reply, given that there are points that Jobbik could support in the whole of the bill, but there are sections that are in question and considered extremely problematic, which have repeatedly been reflected in the bill, so it would have been difficult to submit an amendment overall. However, in establishing our position on how to vote, the Secretary of State can help us in a great deal if he honors us with a meaningful response. One of the first points is the minimum cost principle, which relates to the very strict and non-viable depreciation required by the European Union in connection with the various investments in water utilities, and the whole system set up in this respect. So it would be important to relax this system and also to reschedule these depreciation descriptions, the costs that have been cleared in this respect. Yes, but our question was that the Hungarian State had once concluded an agreement with Brussels in 2007 in such a way that these strict conditions would be implemented, which was then enforced in subsequent grant contracts, and the municipalities, who were investors in these water utility improvements, accepted themselves. Therefore, on the basis of this, certain additional costs that are now being incurred and which have been passed on to the public are already calculated in the tender documents. If we were to say that these strict conditions should be kicked, not recognised, re-buttoned and said that we would use other keys in the future, then, for example, this should be reflected in the calculated and continuously validated basic rates; also in such a way that, from now on, the public would have to pay a lower fee for the supply of water, for the sewer service, and, where appropriate, for the fee per cubic meter, and with retroactive effect, if they had taken more from the population than they should have had to, it would have come back. I think that would be fair, that would be a fair trial. Otherwise, the population is constantly paying for this very serious cost. The other issue we have in this context concerns the water utility fund. These amounts may also appear in the water utility fund, but in addition, by definition, all resources for the financing of water utility development would appear in the water utility fund. We know that, in the case of numerous investments, not only the resources provided for in the grant contracts were available for the implementation of such projects, but also the municipalities, for example, have turned to BM for self-subsidisation. We know that, in the meantime, the government has increased the percentage of aid previously fixed in the grant contracts. So earlier, let's say, they supported these projects with 65 percent intensity, 85 percent later, and 95 percent later. This BM self-employment contribution, which the municipalities received, was also very fair compared to this. But on top of that, they even collected interest contributions from the population. In many cases, there is no fair settlement to the population, nor was there, but after that it is feared that there will be no, because these additional resources will be included in the water utility fund, so that the individual settlements, the mayors, will decide where the roads will be ripped off. I'll give you a specific example. What do you think, Mr. Secretary of State, in a settlement in Heves County, which roads were financed by the municipality? Well, it happens to be what takes you in front of the mayor's house, in addition to the mayor's precious mother-in-law's house, and the water utility company... [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre interrupts.]] Well, there are mayors, yes, who love their mother-in-law. And the street of the president of the water utility company has also happened to be ripped off with this money. The other 40 streets, which belong to this settlement, were by chance not tarmacized. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I think that, yes, according to the laws currently in force, it must be properly accounted for. If you want to create such a water utility fund, you have the opportunity to do so, but only after you've fixed all the investments you've made so far. Now I ask the Secretary of State very nicely not to bring up the example of Ozd to me, because he said that there was an investment of this type, and that it could not even be accounted for there. But in the meantime, let's not forget, the state has taken over this investment, the realization of the investment. So if anyone has to account for it, that's the state, that is, you, Mr. Secretary of State. Yes, the population of Ozd is waiting for the state, once this project is completed, which was financed first from KEOP and later from KEOP, to be accounted for accurately for every penny. Finally, I would like to raise one more thing, and that is that in the event of new connections, real estate developers would be exempt from the public utility development contribution that all ordinary Hungarian citizens, if they build their own house or apartment, have to pay before joining. So before you hook me up to the water, the canal, you'll have to pay this very little money to the municipality or the service provider. But for some reason, you're taking the real estate developers out of this, and from now on, if István Garancsi, say, wants to build hundreds of flats on the Kopasi dam, don't give me thousands, or according to the previous example, the Metrodom Újpesten also wants to build thousands of apartments, in that sacred moment, such improvements will bring billions of benefits if this bill becomes a law. [[18.50]] I don't know what the reason for this kind of favoritism is. I would have asked the Secretary of State, please tell me what the professional reason is for removing these real estate developers from the scope of the law. We know that these large-scale real estate developments have a significant capacity. We know that this is a significant burden for the community as a whole. Yes, we understand that they and, through them, those to whom these apartments will be sold should be involved in bearing this burden, but it seems that there are equals and equals. I would therefore very much ask the Secretary of State to give a concrete, comprehensive answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-15-265	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. I will ask if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask Mr Zsolt Szabó State Secretary if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. I've been informed that the Secretary of State is only now speaking, so you have 10 minutes at your disposal. Here you go.
u2017-05-15-266	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The proposed amendment on water utility services before us will result in a definition, in many cases, of a more precise nature, with a view to further consumer protection, in addition to the reduction of overhead and bureaucracy. I would like to refer to the things that my fellow Member Vécsey has said that it is safe for all our fellow Members to vote in favour of this legislative amendment, because it does not represent an additional burden for the population, and in many cases it certainly contains a lighter factor. The bill was proposed by Mr Benedek Sallai and Mr Ikotity on behalf of the LMP. They wanted to ask you to the 12. Section 2 is deleted and the factor resulting from the contribution resulting from the reduction of the water utility development contribution is excluded from the legislation. Well, the government does not support this issue, because the amendment proposal moves specifically in conjunction with the new home creation programme, and by simplifying the construction rules, as well as by facilitating the construction of new housing properties, thus facilitating access to a new home for Hungarian families. Mrs Loránt Hegedűs asked some questions, but I would like to say that if you look at the first debate of our legislative amendment proposal, I have answered a number of things and I am very happy to answer these questions again. One of the things you're asking me is the question of the CBA. This cost-benefit analysis is always carried out when the application is submitted. However, CBA refers to that date. If, ten years from now, 20 years from now, when depreciation is still going on, this will be revised, then, of course, there will be changing factors in it. The European Commission therefore accepts this and there is no particular problem with this. However, the development fund we are talking about is helping municipalities where the number of consumption points is so low that no money is collected for replacements, such as the replacement of a pump. The Hungarian government will help you do this. This development fund complements the development basis of municipalities and water utility providers, so it is precisely our assistance. He brought up the issue of accounting. Thank God, the Hungarian government decided that the intensity is 100 per cent for all sewage and drinking water applications. Therefore, with additional resources, the population is not burdened at all, there is no need for a public contribution. It's gone. The regulation of the previous period is very clear, whether in companies, the previous period or in later periods in the field of associations. I've got what we can use the rest of the money for. I wish there was a road in every settlement. I don't know if you know that the ominous settlement you say - and please look into this - is building the next three roads after building the first three roads. Obviously, the mayor or some relative lives on all six roads. Obviously, that's what's behind it, we know that. But let us start by thinking positively, and on the subject of the development of a settlement, a road construction has an amazing and very high advantage. I think that we should support this thinking - if only we could renew all roads in all Hungarian settlements! The question was whether to delete it or not to delete it. Today, in one question, your fellow Member asked a question within the faction when the government would build, develop, settle, young people. I don't understand you! Do you agree on these issues within a faction? 'Cause right now, right now, we're saying that we want to encourage housing construction, and as we let go of this award at a family house, why not let go of it in the form of an entire housing complex? Why not let him go when more apartments are being built at the same time and help with the housing trend? This contradicts everything that has been asked today in this Parliament, here in the Parliament, in the Hungarian Parliament. I'll add one more thing to that. I've already mentioned this line of thought for the first time. We've reduced VAT to a lot of basic food. I supported this, and I will also support this amendment of the law, purely because the VAT reduction may not mean a full reduction in prices for customers, only partly - we trust that this will be passed - but it will also become cheaper. With this reduction, we are confident that we will be able to contribute, even slightly, to the sale of real estate and to the construction of as many properties as possible. Overall, whether it is a cost-benefit analysis or an operating cost related to the recovery issue, we are very happy to be available. The public now reimburses in the fees that must come together, say, 30-40-50 years from now, when depreciation also obliges local governments to account for the depreciation in the Annex to the corporate tax Act, in this case it will pay back, and we will be able to carry out the investment again. Thank God, we will be able to meet EU standards, which represent 75% sewerage, by the end of the period. The Hungarian Government supported the amendment tabled by the Economic Committee, which closed the detailed debate, mainly containing language-place, text-focusing and codification improvements. I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support both the legislative committee's presentation of the amendment proposal and the content of the bill itself. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-15-267	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The 2010 CXVII report on promoting the use of renewable energy for transport and reducing greenhouse gas emissions from energy used in transport follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/15067. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available to all on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2017-05-15-268	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee on 11 May 2017 is the House Rule 46. CXVII of 2010 on promoting the use of renewable energy for transport and reducing greenhouse gas emissions from energy used in transport T/1506. The Committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 22 votes in favour, 7 against and no abstentions. [[19.00]] The summarised amendment contains only and exclusively the 8-point text of the Committee on Sustainable Development, which contains legislative and linguistic specifications. With the adoption of the proposal, it will be possible to further promote and extend the use of renewable energy for transport purposes. I call for the support of this House. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-269	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mr Zsolt Szabó State Secretary if he wishes to speak now. [[For signal:]] Thank you. You don't want to do that right now. I give the floor to Congressman Jenő Manninger, rapporteur for the Committee on Sustainable Development. It's a three-minute window, Congressman.
u2017-05-15-270	Mr President, The Committee for Sustainable Development discussed the proposed legislation and held a detailed debate on the bill. It concluded that the proposal aims to transpose the EU directive on renewable fuels for transport into national law, the so-called ILUC - Direct Land Use Change, and to ensure greenhouse gas emission reduction commitments by achieving the contribution of the economic sectors. In Hungary, the 2010 CXVII. The main task of this proposal is to transpose the changes to the Directive. Directive 2009/28/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, which entered into force on 5 October 2015, was amended by Directive 2009/28/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, adopted in order to address the phenomenon of indirect land use change. Member States, including Hungary, have to do mandatory harmonisation by 10 September 2017. The change in the Directive has, inter alia, modified the calculation methodology for achieving a 10% transport share by 2020, tightened the sustainability requirements for biofuels, maximised the eligibility of so-called conventional biofuels, food and feed biofuels for Member States as well as increased Member States' reporting obligations for certain biofuels. The Committee on Sustainable Development adopted proposals for amendments closing a detailed debate, which, as we have just heard, contain legislative, linguistic and legal amendments. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-271	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if they wish to speak within the time frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. [[No signal.]] Since no one has applied for a speech, the debate is closed. I am now giving the floor to Secretary of State Zsolt Szabó to respond to what has been said. Here you go.
u2017-05-15-272	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us, as the Commission speaker said, means the transposition of an EU regulatory environment, the transposition of a directive in Hungary. By 10 September 2017, it is necessary for Hungary and all Member States to transpose this directive, which contains about two important criteria. On the one hand, the calculation methodology for achieving the 10% transport share set for 2020 was modified by the European Union itself. It has also tightened the sustainability requirements for biofuels, for example, it has maximized the ability of food and feed biofuels to be liquidated by Member States and increased the reporting obligation for certain biofuels. In Hungary, the most important task of this amendment is to transpose the directive in question. Some amendments have been proposed, including from the National Tax and Customs Office, where the Office has requested the transfer of the newly used combined nomenclature, and so-called Büat. Law was amended according to the procedure used today, which is specifically linked to the relevant changes in the excise law. The Legislative Committee has tabled a summary amendment. This summarised amendment was supported by the government itself. I would ask this House to support this legislative amendment and the legislative committee's amendment proposal during the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-273	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of Act C of 2003 on electronic communications and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal now follow. The government referral is T/15068. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available to all of them on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-15-274	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that T/15068 on the amendment of Act C of 2003 on electronic communications was discussed by the Legislative Committee at its meeting on 11 May 2017. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary decision, hereinafter referred to as "the House Rules of Decisions', 46. It adopted it by 26 votes in favour, no votes against, with 7 abstentions. The Legislative Committee accepted and supplemented the Commission's amendment closing the detailed debate with a provision clarifying the content of the network operator's cooperation obligation. In summary, this bill amends the electronic communications law on three issues. The initiative regulates the authorisation of an additional charge for retail roaming charges or roaming charges, clarifies the regulation related to the super-fast internet project, and gives the authority to render child pornography recorded in accordance with the list maintained by the International Criminal Police Organisation unavailable. In view of the subsequent importance of the proposal, I would like to ask you to support the adoption of the proposal when it comes to the vote. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-275	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now I'm going to ask Mr. Ákos Kara if he wants to speak now, or just in the closing section. [[For signal:]] Thank you. I'll do it in the closet. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. I am now asking my fellow Members if they would like to speak in the time frame on the agenda. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Congressman Dénes Pigeon asked for the floor from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-15-276	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member, László Vécsey, presented the summary report of the legislative committee in the final debate, in fact summarized the main elements that I do not wish to comment on in the part of my speech that was prepared for the final debate. I would like to highlight three elements in the final debate, which is important. The bill seems to contain technical elements and to be decisive for harmonisation tasks. I think that it is absolutely necessary to highlight what contains the content elements and why this bill is important. It regulates three areas, as László Vécsey indicated: this is the roaming bill, the fine-tuning of certain construction rules related to the super-fast internet project, and the authorisation to render child pornography recorded in accordance with the list maintained by the International Criminal Police Office, Interpol, unavailable. These are the items individually which, in addition to the importance of the technical and harmonisation issue, highlight these three points of the bill to be highlighted. [[19.10]] As regards the abolition of the roaming charge under the EU provisions from 15 July 2017, there was a need for regulation in national jurisdiction, which is a task for the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, given the fact that in matters in which an expert position is required and in which service providers are required to apply for additional roaming fee claims, they may be applied only on the basis of expert examination and approval by the Authority after entry into force. This is an important element, since it is one of the ways of making the roaming system cheaper, and I think that this is definitely an important regulatory control for consumers and it is certainly welcome. The fine-tuning of some construction rules to the super-fast internet is necessary, and I would not mention this in detail; in the general debate, my fellow Members also spoke about this and the rapporteur. The third element is very important because, in addition to the sanctions that may be applied in individual criminal proceedings, there is a need for a mandate to allow the content on the Interpol list to be filtered by service providers. This, however, requires regulation in national competence, and I do not think it is necessary to emphasise that restrictions on access to child pornography and effective steps in this direction are, in any case, to be highlighted and necessary, and indeed not to be complied with. It is necessary to use all possible means in this regard. I therefore believe that the adoption of the bill, in which I would like to point out that all the opposition groups involved in the debate supported the bill, in this regard and also in view of the content of the bill itself, is to support the adoption of the bill in the final vote tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-277	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I am now speaking to Secretary of State, Ákos Kara, to respond to what has been said in the debate and to say the closing word. Here you go.
u2017-05-15-278	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for your constructive contributions both now and at earlier stages of the debate. With the adoption of this amendment on electronic communications, we are taking a significant further step to ensure that the results of digital developments are everywhere in Hungary. The government's aim is to ensure that everyone has access to fixed or mobile internet services under safe and transparent conditions and thus access to services available on the Internet. Indeed, as a summary, I would also like to say from the government that, thanks to the bill, domestic rules of procedure and legal guarantees in addition to EU rules ensure that additional charges for roaming by using mobile services can only be imposed on subscribers in exceptionally justified, exceptionally regulated cases. In addition, the bill includes construction rules for the deployment of broadband networks. I would like to refer here to the fact that the government, within the framework of a comprehensive system, has been able to influence the process of building the broadband in Hungary in several steps with the decisions of the Parliament, so that we can proceed significantly simpler and significantly faster with this development. This means that, according to the decision of the Parliament and the correct direction of the government, by the end of 2018, we will be able to provide virtually all Hungarian households with access to the super-fast internet. I think that this is a very important thing, not only here in Hungary, but also in a European comparison. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, We therefore thank you for the previous amendments to the bill, and we thank you for the support proposals made at this stage of the debate, and I really think that with this proposal, we can serve the interests of all of us, the Digital Welfare programme. In view of all this, I would like to ask you to support the bill in the final vote. And thank you very much for your attention and patience. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-279	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. It follows now that Act V of 2006 on company disclosure, court proceedings and winding-up and CXL of 2007 on the cross-border merger of capital companies. Discussion of the Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act to the system of interconnection of European business registers and of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/15052. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available to all of them on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-15-280	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the House that the Legislative Committee on 11 May 2017 is the House Rule 46. On the basis of Article 4 of the Act V of 2006 on the Publicity, Court proceedings and winding-up of a company and CXL of 2007 on the cross-border merger of capital companies. T/1505 on the amendment of Act T/1505 relating to the system of interconnection of European business registers. The Committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 25 votes in favour, no votes against and 7 abstentions. The summarised amendment only contains the five-point text of the Judicial Committee, which is partly focused on texting and partly on harmonisation of laws. The adoption of the bill will allow interoperability and accessibility between the business registers of the Member States of the European Union, which will increase overall the competitiveness of the European Community. I need your support for this. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-281	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak now. [[For signal:]] No, he'll just want to recap his opinion in the closet. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was set up by the designated Judicial Committee. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the time frame on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to answer in the closing word. [[For signal:]] No. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. It is now up to XLIX of 1991 on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. a debate on the Commission's reports on the amendment of law and related legislation and on the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/15066. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available to all of them on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the opinion expressed by the minority will be presented in an overall period of 15 minutes, with the rapporteur of the committee being able to present his position in no more than 8 minutes, while the rapporteur of the minority opinion will be able to present his position in 7 minutes. The rapporteur was Mr Répássy Róbert. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[19.20]]
u2017-05-15-282	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 11 May 2017, the Legislative Committee discussed the 1991 XLIX on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. Act T/1506 on the amendment of Act T/1506 and of certain related laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. OGY decision, therefore, the resolution rule 46. It adopted it by 25 votes in favour, 7 against and without abstention. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the amendments tabled by the Judicial Committee in the background, which, in particular, contain technical specifications. The summarised amendment puts forward a substantive proposal, to which I would like to draw your attention. Under the Civil Code, a pledge can be debited by the establishment of a lien right. The subject matter of the right is the lien and the claim it provides. The Ptk. In accordance with Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, there is no need for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The proposal therefore settles this in similar ways in bankruptcy proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill before us is to increase the return of winding-up proceedings to creditors by speeding up procedures, increasing their effectiveness, fully collecting bankruptcies, reducing potential abuses and imposing more consistent sanctions. That's why I'm asking for your support. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-05-15-283	Thank you very much, Congressman. The minority opinion is presented by Mr Sándor Burány. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-15-284	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I regret that my fellow Member, Mr Répássy, had not spoken about a specific debate at the committee meeting, which was about the amendment made by our fellow Member, Mr Tóth. My colleague Bertalan Tóth's amendment to the DRB case was due to the impact of their case. It is known that during the liquidation of the DRB, about a hundred families in Baranya were stuck with the credit institution with a large amount of HUF 100 million. According to the laws in force, these hundred families, as a natural person, as a private individual, are in the back of the ranking of creditors, so that when they try to compensate the victims of the remaining assets of the DRB, they are only at the end of the line, so there is virtually no money left for their compensation, this HUF 100 million will be lost, and the fate of this hundred families in Baranya will be greatly made difficult. I note that, although the amendment was born as a result of this case, of course it is joint and several, it aims to ensure that individuals, family members who are in a similar situation in Hungary at any time over time, should not be in the back of the ranking, but in the top of the list, so that it is possible to meet their real needs, not at the end of the line, in any other similar situation and, of course, anywhere in the country. Unfortunately, this amendment was rejected by the Fideszes-KDNP majority of the committee. Secretary of State Völner mentioned at the committee meeting that they were trying to find a solution to this situation. The problem is that there are currently more promises than solutions. The victims, by the way, followed the outcome of the committee meeting, and I understand that since then they have written a letter to the Secretary of State - at least this is how I was informed - describing, on the one hand, the earlier promises made by the various members of the government, ministers and secretary-general of state in this case, and asking that if the government is really helpful and really wants to solve this problem, which in this case is aimed at 100 million forints of families in Baranya, the government could do so without further modification of the law if it wanted to. I am terribly sorry that this problem has not been resolved at the committee meeting by rejecting our amendment. We hope that the government and the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP in Parliament can still change their minds and help those who have been hurt, in particular the DRB's censures, but with the appropriate amendment of the law, anyone who, at some point in the future, might not give up, would be in the same situation. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-15-285	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Pál Völner, whether he wishes to speak now. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Not now.]] Not now. Later. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak within the given timeframe. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application, and the debate is therefore closed. I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State, if he wishes to take the floor now. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Yes.]] I give you the floor, please.
u2017-05-15-286	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. After my colleague Sándor Burány quoted what was said at the committee meeting, we did have a promise to ask for the data. This happened, but they haven't arrived yet. After this analysis, we promised that we would be able to address this situation on the next legislative occasion, although we obviously know that the sickness insurance fund was largely an opportunity to pay their compensation. The other: after all, in a speech, the circle can be extended to any extent, as it is behind the demands of a person, entrepreneur, who has a task with a bank, if we consider it family and private individuals. Therefore, we will certainly await the data and then inform the rapporteur on the conclusions that have been drawn on this basis. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-05-15-287	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on amendments to the General Administrative Rules Act and to certain laws relating to the entry into force of the Administrative Rules Act and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. The government referral is T/15065. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available to all of them on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. The rapporteur was Mr Répássy Róbert. Here you go.
u2017-05-15-288	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that T/15065 was discussed by the Legislative Committee on 11 May 2017. The draft bill amending certain laws relating to the entry into force of the General Administrative Regulation Act and the Act on Administrative Procedure, which was submitted by the Committee with 22 votes in favour, 7 against and 4 abstentions, presented an amendment and a summary report. The summarised amendment contains the amendments proposed by the Judicial Committee, which our committee also supported. The amendments to ensure the internal coherence of the bill, mainly containing technical, codification and language positioning clarifications, have been introduced mainly. It has proved to be a merit change, inter alia, that there is a need to amend the environmental law with a content that does not require the exercise of the right applied for in the decision with a binding effect with regard to environmental authorisation. Furthermore, the submission of amendments to the law on museum institutions, public library provision and public education and certain related laws is before the Parliament, so the coherence of the two drafts is ensured by the summarised amendment proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I stress that the reform of the different types of sectoral procedures has not been pursued by the bill. Any fine-tuning of the rules of the Code of Procedure after their entry into force may be initiated after the acquisition and organisation of the enforcement experience. In the light of what has been said, I would like your support in the adoption of this motion. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]] [[19.30]]
u2017-05-15-289	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will also ask Mr Pál Völner, as rapporteur, if he wishes to speak now. [[For signal:]] Not now. Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. I will ask my fellow Members whether they wish to speak in the time frame on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to the speeches he has not made. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the submission of a public-credit register of general authorisations for litigation and non-court proceedings follow up. The government referral is T/15358. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available to all of them on the Parliament's IT network. I will now ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak now. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. No two-minute comments are possible. I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. State Secretary Pál Völner does not wish to conclude. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Next up is the XXXVII of 2009 on forest, forest protection and forestry. The Commission's reports on the amendment of law and other related laws and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/14461. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available to all of them on the Parliament's IT network. The first point of discussion will be the position of the Legislative Committee. [[For signal:]] - I guess it won't come to that. I'll ask Bitay Márton Örs... [[István Jakab arrives in the Chamber.]] I'm sorry, but I am. I have just been informed that Vice-President István Jakab will be rapporteur for the committee. I'll wait for Mr. Vice President to put the microphone on. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-15-290	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Honourable Parliament that the Legislative Committee on 11 May 2017 is the House Rule 46. In accordance with Article 4 of the Act on Forest, Forest Protection and Forestry, Section XXXVII of 2009 was discussed. T/14461 on the amendment of law and other related laws The Committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 24 votes in favour, 9 against and no abstentions. The summarised amendment also includes certain amendments made by the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Sustainable Development, as well as the Legislative Committee's own proposal, which leaves the polarity clause and the related provisions, so that the bill becomes acceptable by a simple majority. The approved amending proposal states that one of the fundamental expectations of sustainable forest management is that the natural state of forests should not deteriorate as a result of forest management activities. In order to ensure consistent enforcement of this requirement, the draft law introduces, correctly, the concept or category of the principle of natural state under the legal category presenting the state of nature of forests. However, for the sake of coherent regulation, it is appropriate to replace the old category with the new category in several provisions of the law. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that the proposed amendments are supported by a proposal from our fellow Member, Zoltán Gőgös, who has also made clarification, including warranty rules. My fellow Member, Balázs Győrffy, proposes the importance of pushing forest farmers into forest management only in suitable forests. Otherwise, the provision would be more counterproductive, although without constructive cooperation or creative initiative in this area it is impossible to achieve results. In this context, it is also appropriate to take into account the fact that abandonment of slaughter forest management can not only bring benefits but also sometimes disadvantages from a nature conservation point of view. In cutting mode, 10-15 years of return and forest cultivation interventions often serve better the integrity of the habitat of the species living there than the ever-forest mode associated with regular annual or biannual disturbance of the tree stock and soil. In addition, it should be taken into account that significant progress has been made in the area of cutting forest management in terms of nature conservation through the spread of natural forest renovations and continuous forest covering methods over the last two decades. The requirements deriving from the Birds Directive have therefore also been ensured through forest management, without significantly changing the content and nature of forest management. Balázs Győrffy's text also states that Natura 2000 is not justified for forests that are not forest habitats. For example, in the case of cultural forests and forest forests of alien wood species, or even forest habitats with higher natural conditions but with a high frequency in the country, it has not been identified as a designated forest habitat. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the proposed amendments that have been supported include, in essence, the initiative of Mr Sallai R. Benedict LMP, which clarified the scope of access to the repository. As a result, in line with the preliminary discussions and the proposals for the amendment supported, the Parliament could adopt the proposal before us by consensus, if only professional and conscientious considerations were to be decided. I ask you to place the emphasis on the former, instead of party political considerations, and also to support the proposal for the benefit of all Hungarian citizens, for future generations. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-15-291	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will ask the rapporteur, on behalf of Mr Bitay Márton Örs, whether he wishes to speak now. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want me now. I would like to inform this House that the designated Committee on Agriculture has not presented a rapporteur. Interventions by the Members shall take place within the time limits on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor from the Fidesz Group to Mr Balázs Győrffy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-15-292	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, In Hungary, the current forest law and nature conservation law did not create compensation for nature conservation restrictions. In my opinion, this was designed to make it almost impossible to claim compensation in the Hungarian forests on the basis of the specifications. [[19.40]] The situation was further exacerbated by the Natura 2000 sites and, in particular, the forced selection of forest areas without consulting owners and forest farmers, and no substantive action was taken in the development of subsequent remedies. This designation affected around 22 percent of the country's territory, so the overall proportion of forests affected by some nature conservation restriction reaches 40 percent in our country, which means that it is already possible to paralyze rational forest management, since it is not in one case a noble summer and acacia that also received Natura 2000 classification. All of the above have resulted in forest owners entering their forests at a certain time and place because of excessive conservation restrictions, which are not sufficiently substantiated, deprived of the continuous exercise of sustainable forest management; thus thousands of rural jobs are lost, and the other accompanying phenomenon is the existence of so-called non-functioning, non-farming forest areas. Today, too, more than a quarter of private forests, i.e. 250 thousand hectares, where there is no farming. Only putting these areas into production would solve the shortage of firewood, bring significant tax revenues and give bread to a large number of rural inhabitants. Some of the changes made by the representatives aim to ensure that conservation restrictions in addition to those described in the law can only be put in place in consultation with the forest farmer and that proportionate compensation is provided for them. This is the case law that has been in place and functioning for a long time in Europe. We would also like to ensure that only those with the most important natural values, i.e. priority forest habitats of Community importance, are given special protection and priority status from over-aligned Natura forest areas. I would like to stress that the amendments tabled do not make it impossible or hinder forest management with a nature conservation perspective, continuous forest cover or the leaving of dead trees in our forests at the same time create the long-lost consistency and healthy emphasis that the Hungarian countryside desperately needs in an important area such as the use of our 2 million hectares of forest land. The amendment of the law greatly contributes to the more efficient use of private forests, affecting half a million forest owners and nearly 50 thousand forest farmers. The draft law was agreed on several steps with the representatives of forest managers, representatives of the forestry profession and their advocacy organisations, such as the National Forestry Association, the National Association of Private Forest Owners and Farmers, Pro Silva Hungaria and state forest managers, as well as with representatives of other fields of expertise affected by the economic, public welfare and protection services of the forest. Our proposals have always been examined and decided by our involvement. At the end of the nearly two-and-a-half-year legislative process, we can vote tomorrow, in the final parliamentary vote, to amend a forest law that serves the interests of forest and forestry. I call for the support of my fellow Members. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-293	Thank you very much, Congressman. MEP Zoltán Magyar applied for a speech from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-15-294	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I do not want to conduct the full debate and general debate of the original law either, but I must mention that I would consider it a very big step forward if, for example, private forest owners could compensate for their loss due to nature conservation, the lack of revenue from public or European Union funds. This was an old desire of the forester profession, but it may arise from the point of view that it is very important for the common good, for future generations, to maintain the natural values that we have talked about many times here, and we therefore believe that the state should be able to contribute to this public service in this form. Therefore, if this amendment facilitates this intention in substance, it must be supported and promoted. It is therefore very important to stress that nature conservation aspects are also of particular importance for the forest, but there are many other things that need to be taken into account, the aspects of the common good I have already mentioned, or the question of firewood. However, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members here to the fact that, above all, it may be the VAT reduction that can substantially improve this situation, so if we are on the verge of a budgetary debate here, then I urge my fellow members of the government to be leaders in this, too, and try to reduce the tax on firewood to a much more bearable level. At the state forests, in the two-thirds part, there has already been a serious disagreement between us, and they have constantly argued that there is no need to worry, since the privatisation of forest areas below 3 hectares in the specific cases that you have defined should not be a problem. I would like to take this opportunity here, if Secretary of State Bitay is already in there, because in the immediate questions we have just missed the idea of exchanging ideas on a similar subject, so let me say that I do not believe my fellow government Members and, above all, the members of the government that the privatisation of areas below 3 hectares would take place on a purely technical basis. After all, we have seen the opposite in Bábolna, where the entire wallet with Secretary of State Bitay has almost defended the story for two years, and he said that it is perfectly normal to take 3 hectares out of 87 hectares of contiguous 1/1 state territory, by the way, under the name of the client, so that we can privatize it. I can quote from Mr. Secretary of State that this was the demand of local farmers, and compared to this, Monsanto now has this land. So I'm afraid we could do the same in the woods. Allow me to quote you from here, there was a very interesting written question between us and the wallet. Such responses have been received to this specific land-poor case:. In the present case, there is nothing more than the fact that the National Land Fund Management Organisation has acted in accordance with the statutory recovery obligations, based on years of practical experience, in order to ensure optimum recovery, as required by the given area. This is the answer for you to the fact that Monsanto had access to the state land by circumventing - I can say many times - the laws that were then in force and by recouping the property of citizens. So on the basis of these arguments, I can say that we can, of course, still not support the two-thirds part, but we can also agree on the progress that our fellow Member Győrffy has made. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-15-295	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask Mr Bitay Márton Örs, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Márton Bitay: Yes.]] Here you go, Secretary of State, your time frame is 10 minutes.
u2017-05-15-296	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, First of all, I would like to thank everyone who has participated in this legislative process: the opposition and, of course, the associations and associations who have supported our work as a professional organisation, or at least made proposals to amend our work with a view to improving it. As President James said, there has actually been no substantial, serious industrial debate around the law, and now, at the end of the parliamentary phase, there has been a political debate on this law, but we take it for granted, which is part of this work. I am very pleased that there is no forestry organisation in Hungary today that would not appreciate the law, would not experience it as a serious step forward, at least from an organisation who expressed the opposite opinion, we do not know, such an opinion has not come to us. There have been criticisms on the side of nature conservation, in fact it is about the fact that the law continues on the basis of a well-established, well-known scenario and practice, as it takes into account the priority of realistic, reasonable and effective nature conservation. We are voting for this, realistic, reasonable and effective nature conservation rules must continue to be maintained, and that is essential in order to preserve the state of the Hungarian forests. Mr Zoltán Magyar raised a few questions, most of which have already been discussed, and I support them, and you know that the government is also in favour, because the issue of compensation is now partly addressed by the law - following the amendments made by President Balázs Győrffy. We welcome this, although it is not a opposition, but it has come to the law as a pro-government amendment, and it has been drafted, and we have accepted it; we also agree with it on the VAT reduction, you know, on firewood. As soon as there is a budgetary opportunity, this possibility should also be considered. [[19.50]] With regard to the areas below 3 hectares you mentioned, we have taken into account your opinion, which is why it is not in the two-thirds area. By the way, you mentioned fear about that. It's usually the fear of ignorance. This is what you have said here, as an example of the case in Komárom, because it is a completely different area. He said three words: the state land that went to Monsanto. For the record alone, I would like to note that it is not a land, but an outland; it is a private area, not a state, and not a Monsanto, but a private person who sold it to the Monsanto four years later. For the record, I'm not happy about it either, and we have taken all the legal instruments together with the government agencies to investigate this situation, and if there's any catch on it, then let's take advantage of it. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-297	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of individual laws in relation to defence issues and the debate on the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/15344. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available to all of them on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Kucsák, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2017-05-15-298	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that during the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 11 May 2017, the members discussed the T/15344 amendment of certain laws in relation to defence issues. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution, therefore, the resolution house rule 46. It adopted it by 25 votes in favour, 7 against and 1 abstention. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the amendments made to the national defence and police committee in the background, which contain, on the one hand, provisions of a legal nature as well as language positioning specifications, and, on the other hand, leave the chapter amending the law on health and administrative activities. Ladies and gentlemen, The package of laws before us can therefore be referred to as the package of provisions of the Hungarian government in connection with the defence, as it proposes to regulate certain issues concerning the legal status of the military and to settle issues directly affecting the operation of the defence. Given that defence is a common concern for all of us, it is a national matter, I would ask my fellow Members to support this bill. Thank you for listening. Thank you for the floor. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-299	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak now. [[Tamás Vargha says no.]] No, I'll do it in the closet. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the designated National Defence and Police Committee has not issued a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I would like to inform this House that there is no possibility of two-minute comments during this debate. First, I give the floor from the Fidesz Group to Mr Simon Miklós. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-15-300	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association supports the legislative package, given that defence is a common cause for all of us, so it is a national matter. The aim of the proposal before us is to settle issues directly affecting the staff of the Hungarian Defence Forces and the operation of the defence in order to provide a more effective public service. In our view, the legislative package clearly includes the legislative intention to give more respect and recognition to those serving in defence. In view of this, I would like to ask my fellow Members with respect to your support for the bill before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-301	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the closing remarks. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. Your time frame is ten minutes. Here you go.
u2017-05-15-302	Thank you very much. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their supporting contributions. Indeed, the draft law has been proposed by the Defence and Police Committee for clarification and beauty reasons only, thus making the text more coherent and clearer. The parliamentary jargon used to call this type of legislation a salad law, and I rather agree with my fellow Member, László Kucsák, who called it a caring package. I would like to add one more word to this: it is caring and encouraging, because we believe and believe that the highest value is man, soldier and soldier, and I think that this package of laws proves this, because it is doing a great deal to improve the service, life and working conditions of Hungarian soldiers. I therefore call on my fellow Members, no matter which faction they sit in, to support our bill when deciding. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-15-303	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr Zoltán Magyar applied for a speech from the Jobbik Group on the problems of Kóny, Fehértó, Győrsögház and Bezi. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-15-304	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, As they've been used to it for several weeks now, I try to draw attention to the problems of some settlements in my constituency after the agenda, but there are 75 settlements, so it has to be stepped up. Today I would like to start with Bezi, which is located in the Hanság part of the Tóköz; I can give you data in 2015, which are accurate: 517 souls. It has a diverse history, as have several other settlements in the region, but growth and development have been visible in difficult years. It would be good if we could say that for the decades we have now. Let me just give you one example: in 1729 there were 23 serfs and 21 gentile families, in 1850 there were 222 Catholic, 435 Evangelical and 130 Jewish inhabitants of Bezi. Compared to this, there are sad conditions today, since 517 people live in the area, as I said, and this is also an ageing settlement in the region. Whiteto is worth mentioning in more detail. Located 16 kilometers from Csorna, it has 481 inhabitants. It was named after the lake near the village, which, according to some records, was noticeably white at the time, and thus became White Lake. The first written mention comes from 1368. Győr's hedge house is also located in the lake, along the Rábca. 772 people live there. Annex XIV is replaced by the following: By the end of the century, he ran under the name hedges, and then he turned that name. But there is a local folk saying, a legend that a man came at the end of the village of Lébény, who began to make a house of piles and wickets, but then the water kept washing it, but he didn't give up, and that's how the first house was created. [[20.00]] Kóny settlement is the largest of today's mentioned settlements. They live at 2640. In the vicinity of the Fertő-Hanság National Park there are 250 hectares of protected area, there are 60 hectares of peat lake in the area. I visited this myself several times, I even had the opportunity to go on a boat. Anyone who walks by, try it out, it's a rare experience here in our little country. I'd like to mention two things. The crown and the horse can be found in the coat of arms. The crown indicates that in 1228 there was a second. András gave the settlement a founding diploma. Kóny himself is said to come from the word Slavic horse, and the horse appears in the village many times in tradition. The situation of these settlements today is devastating, so each of them can be said to have lived many, many times throughout history. This period will certainly not be one of them. Despite the fact that Rábáköz, which we now call this region, is located in the western corner of the country, and even in the northwest corner, which my fellow Members often say is about a more fortunate region in the country, so Győr's influence or the impact of Sopron, Mosonmagyaróvár, on the settlements is less felt. If not otherwise, it is because they work there with buses, even at the price of tens of thousands of HUF a month. The sad situation was that, compared to his once famous agriculture, these settlements are now being bought by the villagers, the rurals, and not by the townspeople, as would otherwise be normal, and I think it would be healthy. As far as infrastructure is concerned, the road network is medieval, pathetic. I always say that the country's second worst road network is located in the region, with the region performing disastrously at this level in each of the three most important parameters. Access to health systems can take place in a lower quality, in an order of magnitude in a smaller settlement than for a resident in a city. This is also sad because the scissors, which in this respect exists between a small settlement and a city, were similar in Austria even in the early 1980s, but there they could close these scissors with the proper use of EU and local resources, and now in Austria there is no disadvantage for being born and living in a smaller settlement. But I have a lot of other issues to discuss, and I'll do it on the next agenda. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President.
u2017-05-15-305	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speech after the agenda. Thank you for the work of my fellow Members and of the Office of Parliament, thank you for keeping the minutes. The Parliament will resume its work at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. Good night, everyone. [[Meeting ended at 20:03 p.m.]]
