u2017-11-27-0	[[Most of the people in this room stand up and greet the electoral community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear fellow Members, Ladies and gentlemen. According to house rules and good manners, Members do not honor the Speaker of the House by decorating themselves, but by standing each other and through each other. That's how they do it in every civilized parliament, by the way. Dear House, The 24th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our dear guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear House, I am fulfilling my sad duty to inform the Honourable Parliament that our former colleague László Paul died in 76 years of his life after a serious illness. At the first free parliamentary election, László Pál got into Parliament on the national list of the Hungarian Socialist Party and became a member of the management of the group. He served as Vice-President of the Economic Commission for three years. In 1994 he was also elected representative in the 19th Constituencies of Budapest in the colours of MSZP. From 1994 he ran the Ministry of Industry and Trade for a year. In addition to his political career from 1995 to 1999, MOL Rt. Between 2002 and 2004 Magyar Város Művek Zrt. was the chairman of its board of directors. Deputy Chief Executive Officer. He received several prestigious Hungarian and foreign awards for his work and for his business as an industrial organizer in order to create the IT industry. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our dead fellow Member. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, For a pre-meeting speech, Ms Bernadett Szél, leader of the LMP, applied to the revolution, which she does not even notice with the title "government". Here you go.
u2017-11-27-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, There is a revolution in the world today; it is not what you created there in Fidesz in 2010, because it does not require a cab, but common sense and foresight. I am talking about the smart revolution, which is simply transforming the world we know at a dizzying pace, and all the way we think about driving, traveling, urban planning, or even thinking about the economy and politics in this world. In the LMP, we see that the smart age is a unique opportunity for Hungary to reach the top of the world, and a real XXI. Let it be a success story of the century. This requires two things: both political courage and will, and, above all, the completion of XX. He brought enmity and hatred with us from the century on. The smart age builds above all on cooperation. He seeks to see how we can best help each other, not create fear and hatred among groups and people. The smart revolution can't be stopped by fence. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The fence is also a smart fence!]] Even if Fidesz wants to apply the old bad solutions of the last century, because we see that the future is smart, the future is green, the future naturally reduces the overhead, for example, we do not need to appoint all kinds of commissioners. The future is clearly the new and innovative solutions that we saw ten to twenty years ago in science fiction, i.e. science-fantastic films; now this world is here, with millions of possibilities! Some countries have recognised opportunities early; let me highlight the Estonian example, which is also referred to as a Estonian miracle: health, education and public administration have been fully digitised in 20 years. The Estonian eGovernment portal offers 3,000 services electronically. How much did you save? Two percent of GDP has been saved by electronic signatures, and we see that thanks to smart solutions, they have now multiplied their GDP by seven. This is the direction that may be represented by Other Politics. We are currently living in a country with a government that certainly thought it was a good idea to tax the Internet and instead of training more IT experts and engineers in this country. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We train more!]] set up a assembly plant and does not take into account the fact that today's IT experts and engineers are already designing robots with the help of which a lot of people will lose their jobs in the coming years, and these precious years, which should be the years of preparation, are devoted to spreading half-fascist ideology in Hungary, as opposed to what would be their real task. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Says Jobbik's coalition partner.]] it is to prepare this country for the opportunities of smart revolution and to protect us from the dangers that this transformation could harm Hungarian citizens. What I see is that we have a government that practically wants to create nuclear power plants, and they are totally serious about it, and I looked up the quote, Viktor Orbán and his team in a debate said that the reason why we cannot base it on solar and wind power plants is because electricity is needed at night, and even when the wind is not blowing. They say that in a community where - and I am talking about the European Union - 80 percent of investment in the energy sector goes into the renewable sector, and not because investors are completely insane, but because they see the future, they see the return there. And if that were not enough problems, you have also taxed renewable energy and, by the way, you have reduced it to your own small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, because this sector could start to the fullest with the use of different types of renewable energy; not to mention the potential of building insulation: in addition to increasing the sovereignty of the country, because we would not heat the Hungarian streets with Russian gas for months, we could create a great deal of jobs among low-skilled workers. But look at the car industry. There, recent research shows that roboticisation will make half of the current jobs redundant within a decade. You are innumerable in deciding on subsidies for these jobs instead of helping prepare for the next period and helping Hungarian workers not to be unemployed in the subsequent period. What kind of world do we see? A world where the creativity of the human workforce is much more needed than monotonous worklessness. Here, car-sharing companies now operate and experiment with self-driving cars, and this world will catch up with us. I would like to state that the May Other Politics wants to make the Hungarian people the winners of the era of electric cars, renewable energy, green light, smart devices and smart cities, and we are committed to making these 21st. Hungary should be the winner of the century's stories [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And let's not be losers like the current government in this world. Free Tibet!
u2017-11-27-2	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-11-27-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to tell you that this government is working for a Hungary that can take advantage of the opportunities of new technologies and innovation. I would like to reassure you about jobs: 741 thousand new jobs have been created since 2010. The left, to which you belong, could not do so, doubled unemployment. By 2020, this government spends HUF 1200 billion on research and development, with 1 percent in 2010 and 1.4 percent in 2016, which needs to be further increased. [[13.10]] They do talk about smart revolution in their program, in the context of stopping the Paks expansion, but they do not mention who would pay for more expensive electricity in this context. Because on your proposal, the Hungarian people should pay for this. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett, from the Butcher's hundred billion!]] CHAPTER XXI Their programme, which is considered to be centuries old, also includes a multi-key sija system and a drastic tax increase, with the reduction of the current family support system. Well, it's a lot of things, but it's not smart. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to respond to one more thing - you couldn't have thought of leaving without a word in Parliament - and this is the unworthy campaign of lies that LMP has presented over the past few days in connection with the consultation. [[A voice from the ranks of the MSZP: Whoo! Dr. Wind Bernadett turns to Dr. Ákos Hadházy, who is behind him, and shake hands.]] You couldn't have thought we'd let that go. In accordance with their request, three participating institutions have also welcomed the LMP, you who are involved in the consultation. And even though you received detailed information at all three locations after the inspection, you started a large campaign of false news and lies. [[György Balla: That's right!]] The thing now, honourable Members of the LMP, is that there are two possible cases. One is that it is not enough hours for Congressman Hadházy to grasp the process of processing the consultation. [[György Balla: That's true!]] Maybe he wasn't able to understand it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Not a smart representative!]] that the number of sheets received and the number of sheets processed are not the same, because not all the questionnaires received have, as appropriate, been processed. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett:]] So one possible reason is a lack of understanding. But the thing is, there's a much more possible scenario here, the fact that you didn't care at all how many people, how many people are working on processing the questionnaires, because you're premeditated that they're gonna lie just to try and cancel the consultation. [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz, among them: Yes! István Szilárd Németh: Werber wrote them in advance!]] This is so, Congresswoman, very, very sneaky, because they support the resettlement plans in Brussels, but they are now beginning to implement them, but they would prevent the Hungarians from giving their views on this. In any case, Ákos Hadházy's action was very good for those who did not plan to participate in the consultation, this is a good time. In any case, they come with an apology to the Hungarian people who have already spoken out and stood up for Hungary. When they do, you're welcome to make a recording of that, and two million people will listen to it. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-27-4	Mr László Varga, representative of the MSZP, also spoke before the agenda, with the title of the future of the TAO discounts. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-27-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, 25 November is the day of Hungarian football, this is what we celebrated on Saturday. There's something to remember: the 6:3 heroes and the old days. Unfortunately, the present is rather deplorable. However, the government has spent hundreds of billions on the financing of visual team sports, obviously mainly football, including 330 billion in tao discounts. Therefore, within the framework of the corporate tax relief scheme, which was highly hoped to finance supply sports, it is indeed a noble goal, but the social judgment on this system is quite devastating over the years. First of all, because you have always done everything in your power to keep it a secret about exactly what the beneficiaries and sports organisations have used these preferences for. Since the Curia's decision, it is clear, however, that these money, the Tao money, has not lost their common character, thank God. Tao money is therefore public money, and we should also do everything in Parliament to ensure that these questions are properly publicised. The second problem is that people feel a tight circle playing chess with these resources, leaving people out of who and for what purpose they are using these resources. In other words, it is anticompetitive what is happening, quite clearly: these sources flow to the favourite teams of larger Fidesz leaders, it cannot be overlooked. No one's gonna believe it's gonna happen on the field, you know, like, football. I note that the same is the problem with their policies: they shape the circumstances very much as they please you. Thirdly, people want to focus on other social goals, other important problems, and I hear that all the time. To say two areas: the health system is in a miserable state, the waiting lists are huge. [[György Balla: Half your size!]] , hospital infections take enormous proportions, and the state of equipment development and buildings is miserable. As regards education, the state of our schools, kindergartens, especially schools in state reserve and pre-schools with municipal reservation leaves something to be desired. There's a lot of news like this, and there's a lot of stuff that parents have to finance, like the last time there was news that Miskolc was already in a kindergarten. In short, people think that it is more important to support these goals. So the Tao system has to be accounted for for for what happened here, for which 330 billion public funds have been spent - now it is clear since the Curia's decision - and therefore clear, transparent relations have to be created. I will therefore present a proposal for a decision with some of my fellow Members, which is about the need to review the legal background of the corporate tax benefit scheme. Transparency and traceability must, above all, be ensured in this respect, so it is important to restore public confidence. On the other hand, it would be an important innovation to pay attention to people and pay attention to workers in this regard, as larger companies should have a say in the representation bodies of employees, where appropriate, to the works councils in terms of who the beneficiaries and beneficiaries of tax incentives should be. For example, this proposal would not preclude a company in the area of Felcsút from supporting the team of Felcsút, but, let us say, on the basis of people's sympathy, these employees' representatives would decide about where these resources should go. For example, in the first year of operation of the aid scheme, it would not occur that only Felcsút received more resources in Tao discount than the four other visual team sports outside football. So these amazing distorted conditions could be eliminated. Thirdly, we strongly demand that the government submit a complex proposal that would allow the financing of health and education objectives in the framework of such benefits, coordinate with the European Commission, in this respect, to fight for freedom, because I can tell you that the hundreds of billions of forints the use of which is at least doubtful and disturbing the vast majority of society would be seen with a better heart for health and educational purposes. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-11-27-6	I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary.
u2017-11-27-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Sporting is an important element of social well-being and is a key government goal, even if this is not agreed and supported by several opposition parties. That's why the government came up with the idea of supporting it against corporate tax, a whole new form, a new opportunity for the development of sport and sport. [[Some of the MSZP imagers leave the meeting room.]] By the way, this system is unique in Europe, so unique that it now has more followers in Europe. The European Union fully approved this system in 2011 and you must know that on 23 March 2017, the European Commission approved this corporate tax system to support sport and culture for another six years. If the European Commission had any problems with the Hungarian system, it could obviously have prevented it from doing so, it could have prohibited the country from applying it for another six years from 1 July 2017. But that is not what happened, but that the European Commission approved it. I think that the transparency of the system is ensured, because the sports organisations receiving the aid are chosen under a public procurement law in the event that they develop, invest and account for all forints to the competent authority on the basis of current laws. [[13.20]] By the way, the current aid scheme has been very successful. It is not true that this concerns a narrow circle that you mentioned. Just as an example, the number of certified athletes has increased by 155 thousand since 2011, thanks, among other things, to this support system. Or, for example, in the national track development programme between 2012 and 2016, 483 artificial grass fields were built in the country. More than 70 percent more settlements benefited from smaller or larger amounts of this sports support system. I think that those who use this support can no longer imagine how they would operate, whether it be a small sports organization, a small sports club, a small village sports club, or how larger clubs could operate the club without this support, where hundreds of thousands of children can play sports. By the way, you were elected congressman in Miskolc, and I've seen you at the Nutmeg game several times with a red-and-white scarf around your neck, assuming you're a Nutmeg fan. As I understand it, you're also attacking the Nutmeg support system. In nutgy, there are more than 10 billion stadiums. Turn on the television and watch an English 7th-class game, but don't be surprised that the English 7th-class stadium is in better shape than most of the Hungarian first-class stadiums! [[Dr. László Varga: Only private capital will be involved in this.]] I would like to tell you that Diósgyőr will receive a great deal of support and will achieve very important goals, as Diósgyőr Reinforcing Academy has been established where thousands of children play sports. The county of Heves and Nógrád belongs to Miskolc, the supply centre of Diósgyőr. In the last six years, the supply system in Diósgyőr received 3 billion HUF support, including Diósgyári Kft. the aid received by the Member State concerned. As I understand it, you're out there cheering for the match, enjoying the success of the Nutster - although this didn't work out this weekend - and speaking in Parliament, you say that this support system has nothing to do with it. I wonder if he'll be there next spring with the thousands of people, when we're going to be at the new stadium of the Nutcracker, of course, only if I get an invitation. I wonder if you can be happy about that, and then, there, what you're going to tell people about the sports support system that this government created. You have a double policy: you attack the system in Parliament, and when you go home, you rejoice and applaud. Decide which one you choose, but not just you, but the entire MSZP fraction. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-27-8	At the same time, Mr Jobbik's representative, Mrs Dóra Dúró, asked for a balance instead of Stereotypes. It's an address. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-11-27-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, 25 November is the World Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women. On this occasion Jobbik organised an extremely successful and successful conference in the House of Representatives. We would like to see this forum, the political parties - we have invited all of them to this conference - and the civil sector, the discussion and discussion between women's organisations perpetuated, and not only traumas such as the suffering of violence, but also effective solutions to women's everyday problems and difficulties. It is extremely important for all of us how we talk about women, how we talk about their role in public life, whether in the family or in society, because it is crucial how we look at them and how they can look at themselves. Instead of stereotypes, it is important to focus on balance in this regard, but it is important not to fall on the other side of the horse and not to communicate against men about women, not to confront men and women, and it is very important for men to feel that scapegoating for the role of men and women is not some scapegoat for women in social engagement, but we want to strike a balance between men and women both at work and in the family. We must strive to find the role of men and women, their proper standing in the family and in the work together, because from a demographic point of view it is now desirable for the state to help women return to the labour market. It is harmful and it does not achieve the desired goal if we want to introduce the child to women as some kind of compulsion. The stereotype of giving birth and staying at home with children has the opposite effect of what is desirable to all of us and from a social point of view. I'm convinced that a woman is the 21st. Motherhood is the most beautiful profession of the century. However, it has now become possible not to be exclusive, we do not have to tell women that because of childbearing they are disadvantaged either in public life or in society or in the labour market, or even contrary to what Zsolt Spéder, the head of the Institute for Population Studies at the KSH, calls attention to the need to strengthen the role of fathers in the family, for example, in order for more children to be born. In addition, we must eliminate the wage gap that is unfortunately still significant in society between men and women. If we consider the whole labour market, women still earn about 15 percent less than men, and if we talk about this wage gap for men and women in senior positions, then, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, we are in the last place in the European Union. We have the biggest wage difference between men and women in senior positions, over 30%. So in Hungary, a woman working in a senior position works for free in one third of the year, does not receive money for it, does not receive the same recognition as her male partner working in the same position. The social causes of this, the causes of this stereotypes, I think it is worth talking about, and it is worth taking steps to make it stop and reduce. It is also important that as many women as possible participate in society, as many women as possible, enrich their experiences, comments, whether public life, politics, the civil sphere, or any area of life, public life in which women's energies, beneficial features and beneficial effects are needed. It is important to tell the next generation, young women, that there is a perspective ahead of them. It is a living opportunity for them to occupy a leading position in politics, in the financial sphere, in the economy or in any company, in any area of the civil sphere. This is not just an initiative on our part that is exclusively about women, because if we can make women happy and tell them that they can be happy and successful, that they can live their motherhood, and that they can choose other vocations for themselves, we can actually become a happy nation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-27-10	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2017-11-27-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, As I listened to you here, what you told me about the role of women, the balance and cooperation of women and women, I came up with the lines of the Fundamental Law, which sets out the same principles and objectives when you talk about human dignity, family and human relations, both in part and in the operative part of the National Creed. I think that part of it could have been supported by you and all the good people within the Fundamental Law. On the other hand, I agree that Jobbik may need different such events, and perhaps not about the role of women, but because in the eyes of the people, the concept of Jobbik and violence is so interlinked because of Jobbik's story that you still have a lot of work to do here from the Guard vest to here. As for what you said about the role of family, the role of men and women: the government has not only spoken about such things, but has also taken effective decisions in this matter. Today, for example, women's employment is record high in Hungary. Since the change of regime, so many women have never been able to work as many as they are now, and this has not been done on their own, but as a result of the economic policy decisions and the laws that we have made here in this House, this very positive situation has developed. These were not supported by you, but voted against here in Parliament, but fortunately the majority of Fidesz-KDNP accepted, and so we were able to raise women's employment record high in Hungary. The National Basic Training Plan, which you, of course, are attacking from a number of directions, is a very important part of the education of family life, precisely the stereotype-free material of family roles, based on equality and complementing each other. We hope that you will support this later, when the NAT is being criticised. [[13.30]] And we trust that this will help children, often with only one of the mother and father roles that children experience at home day after day, on weekdays. We're hoping the school can help with that, too. It is also important that the Hungarian family support system is not only much more extensive than before, say, six years, but also much more flexible and safer. However, as I said, we have doubled the framework compared to what we received in the Hungarian budget in 2010, and now 4.8 percent of GDP is spent on family support in Hungary, the system is much more flexible. After all, those who want to go back to work earlier as a mother will receive family support, children or children from the age of six months, working alongside her, and those who want to continue to be at home with the child, we have also expanded the possibility of staying at home not only for two years, but also for three years. So whoever chooses the job either earlier or later in both directions is much more likely today than it was before. And I think it is important to say about wage differences that, indeed, there have been differences in this, but statistics of the past period show that this scissors are finally closing in Hungary [[Dóra Dúró: Slowly.]] And these numbers are finally changing in a positive direction. Obviously, what you're saying also comes from a somewhat inherited situation, but the past period has helped to make male and female wage differences smaller than before. This, of course, is also helped by the fact that a less tax is levied by the State, and by the fact that the spouses can benefit from family tax relief together; so what one cannot use from his or her wages can be used by the other from his or her own wages. It is also important, and it improves the situation of women to be able to retire after the 40, 40 years of working and raising children. We can help them in the role of grandmother if they want to deal with their granddaughter. But as an opposition party, Jobbik has not supported this in recent years either, although it is very important for women, one of the most widely mentioned positive measures. And we can also say that those who, as you said in connection with the Memorial Day, are indeed victims of some kind of violence, are now protected by the Criminal Code, since in 2013, we adopted the new Btk., and there is a separate criminal act of violence. Since 2015, we have also named the secret safe house in the Children's Protection Act, precisely to protect women who have suffered violence. National strategic targets were set in 2015. In 2011 and 12 we created two new crisis management centres and increased the seats, and in 2012 we also provided the opportunity for those in danger of life to receive help. With the development of professional protocols, 50 percent crisis center and 100 percent secret normative state aid increase, the development of new halfway houses that help us with reintegration and various legal and psychological assistance, we have tried to help women in six institutions who have suffered some kind of violence. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-27-12	Dear House, Now, the Christian Democratic People's Party's Party representative, Mr István Hollik, will address his speech with the title of György Soros' attack on Hungary. Here you go.
u2017-11-27-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, We Hungarians can be proud to be a freedom-loving people. And even more so, that we are responsible for our freedom, always bearing in mind the growth of the Hungarian nation. At the same time, we did not win this freedom at the lottery, but we fought for it. In 2010, the country was not only indebted but also exposed to external forces. Let us remember that most of the public debt was foreign owned, as were most of the banking and utility companies. In addition, we owed it to the IMF, for which they wanted to tell us how to get out of the pit into which the socialist government pushed Hungary. So we can say that in 2010, we were not masters of ourselves, Hungary was at the mercy of others. The Fidesz-KDNP government said no, and we started our own path. We have introduced fair public burdens, we have sent the IMF, and the public debt is falling, and it is now almost entirely Hungarian-owned. So we took our fate into our own hands. We Hungarians have decided to build a proud, growing, safe country. And over the last seven years, we've made a lot of progress towards our goal. Today in Hungary, who wants to, can work. Unemployment hasn't been this low in 25 years. Wages are increasing, both in the market and in the public sector. The state's finances have been in order, and our economic growth has been double the European Union's for years. We can easily draw one conclusion from what we have just said. If others tell us what we Hungarians should do, Hungary will weaken and others will profit from us. On the other hand, if we decide our fate, Hungary will grow stronger. Therefore, our most important task is to avert any attack that seeks to reduce our sovereignty and our struggled freedom. Last week, however, such an unprecedented external attack was launched against Hungary, led by György Soros. It has never occurred since the change of regime that someone so clearly stated that he wanted to get involved in Hungary's internal affairs. György Soros himself and his representative said that they would launch a counter campaign for national consultation. It is quite clear that they want to openly influence the outcome of the Hungarian elections in order to move the Orbán government and put a pro-immigration opposition government in its place. Great forces and money have now moved against Hungary, and it will take every effort to resist this pressure and to protect Hungary. György Soros has recently transferred 18 billion dollars, or HUF 4700 billion, to his foundation network in order to be able to cheat his will and achieve his goals as effectively as possible. From this amount, György Soros will also finance the campaign on Hungary's expiry. It does all this to achieve an abstract utopia, which has never been tested in practice, the idea of open society, which aims to weaken and then destroy nation states. And this is not only a utopia that is alien to our worldview, but also deeply undemocratic. This is what the Dutch historian Thierry Baudet highlights in his book "The Importance of the Borders" when he says: "Transnational politics represents the interests of strong nations, and real democratic decision-making can only be achieved within the framework of a nation state. In other words, if we want democracy, we must also want the nation states, because it is not the will of the people that prevails, but something completely different. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That is, we can only decide our own destiny if we live in a nation state and think in a nation. That is why we will defend the freedom and national independence that we have fought for ourselves, and we will not allow George Soros or anyone else to take our country, our language and our culture away from us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-27-14	Once again, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2017-11-27-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is enough to think back in Hungary's history for 150 years, and we are celebrating the 150th anniversary of the compromise. For Hungary, there were few refreshing periods of economic prosperity, such as the era of dualism, when the city that surrounds us here, or the buildings that are here in Kossuth Square, was created. These are the impressions of the era when Hungary was able to make some progress within the framework of the Monarchy, but more freely, on its own. He was able to develop his own economic policy, he had his own budget, he had his own internal affairs, which were controlled by himself, not outside the borders of the country, outside the borders of historical Hungary, or he was directed into the affairs of Hungary. This has brought Hungary the biggest economic rise of the time for centuries. And since in 2010, the Hungarians have regained control of their own lives from the Bermuda triangle of international business circles, London analysts, New York IMF headquarters or Brussels economic leaders, and we decide our own affairs, finally Hungarian politics is not about austerity, but about wage increases and pension increases. Because let's not forget, whenever the Hungarian government received a package, a request or any similar proposal or instruction from Brussels or from the headquarters of any international organisation, World Bank, IMF, it has always resulted in a wage reduction, always with a tax increase, always with a restriction. [[13.40]] They could not imagine their plans for Hungary other than by taking measures to the detriment of the Hungarian people. But since we have stood up for our own interests, fortunately, taxes, wages are falling, wages are rising in health care: doctors have HUF 207 thousand, nurses have 100 percent between 2012-19, teachers have 50 percent in 5 years, social workers have 62 percent in the next 1st January, plus 10 percent in the medical raise. Finally, the news is about what the surplus is in Hungary. Allow me one more thought on European immigration policy, honourable Member. The principle of solidarity is recognised in Hungary by those who would pay for the costs of migration with the most deprived groups, since they would take part in social spending and catch-up expenses and regroup them for migration. Those who would suffer the worst are those who are living in the most difficult conditions right now. They would use their money to cover migration expenses. And when we are talking about solidarity, who are saying it up in Brussels, there is only one person they do not refer to. People who really live in difficult conditions in their homeland and never ask them what kind of European help they would ask for. Because if you had the courage to ask them, I would ask you to help them thrive in their homeland. These leaders in Brussels and Western Europe do not have the courage to ask the citizens of their own state what the opinion of the people of that country is and what decisions they want from their politicians - it was only in Hungary in the national consultation, which is why György Soros's people and György Soros himself are attacking the national consultation. And the other group, who has not been asked, are those who live in the Middle East region or Africa, how best to help them. However, Hungary has conducted dialogue and consultation on both sides. In the national consultation we learned the opinion of the Hungarian people, and in the international consultation organised in Budapest, young people from the Middle East and Africa, on the one hand, and church leaders, on the other hand, told us that they were asking Hungary for help locally. Therefore, Hungary protects our common European border in the spirit of solidarity and helps those who need health care locally, who have destroyed their house and need housing, who must build a school, who must give back his future and hope. Hungary helps locally. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-27-16	The speech before today's last agenda will be delivered by Mr Szilárd Németh, on behalf of Fidesz:. Defend Hungary! It's an address. The congressman has the floor.
u2017-11-27-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As the speakers before me have already stressed, it is high time that we took a position on Soros's plan here in Parliament, because so far it has not happened. It is a very dangerous plan for Hungary's independence, the safety of Hungarian people and Hungarian families, and part of it is the decision that already took a legal path in October in the light of the decision of the LIBE Committee: it was decided by 44 votes to 16, then the decision of this committee was voted by the European Parliament with 390 votes in favour, 175 votes against and 43 abstentions, and started the way that, in fact, European law would be binding on everyone. Just to remind you, this is about the quota, which we Hungarians, on 2 October last year, refused to apply to this quota with overall support of over 98 percent. This would be a quota that would scatter illegal immigrants arriving in Europe without a cap, both in terms of time limits and in terms of numbers of immigrants, with all its dangers, including terrorism. On the other hand, the European Commission has a supplementary proposal, if that were not enough, and it has already begun to come to an agreement in a sumptuous manner: this proposal is about the importation of 50,000 immigrants, who should be brought into Europe from Turkey, the Turkish camps, with a single decision. Then we experience what has already been remembered here by several people that György Soros, seeing that something is not quite right here, because the previous quota could not be fulfilled due to the opposition of the nation states, so he himself entered into this whole transaction, intervenes in Hungarian internal politics. On the one hand, he denies there's a Soros plan. He denies each point, so to speak, and then votes for each point, and says that then come on, uzsgyi, and hits the Hungarian media market in full, and advertises the Soros plan here with the help of those in these lines of the horseshoe. Or we can see that on the public news channel, regardless of the party's position, I would just like to say that, so even a member of the People's Party has spoken, and they all stand behind Soros. Each virtually denies the farmer's claim because he admits that there is a Soros plan, and he also disciplines the Hungarians that if you do not complete this Soros plan, we will take the money from you that would otherwise be due to you from the European Union. But when you look at how left-wing Members behaved about the quota they denied: they voted for it! Then what did they vote for if it doesn't actually exist? Or here last time, Ákos Hadházy, who can give them very good advice and good texts with a completely pre-written text, has stepped into the national consultation, in violation of virtually stupid, obscene lies and aggressive, pompous behaviour by people who have already completed the consultation sheets. There are nearly two million of them. [[Noise and interruptions in opposition benches. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: There will be three of them tomorrow! A voice from the benches of the LMP: There are four!]] And also threatening people who would like to participate in this, either in one way or in one of these resolutions or in a resolution. So it's time for us to clear the air here in Parliament, and every single representative, every single faction, has the opportunity to take a stand for the Soros plan... [[Depreciation, interruptions. Dr. Wind Bernadett: We've never had the chance to do this before!]] or against it. Therefore, this week, the Fidesz faction will present a parliamentary resolution proposal on this Soros plan, and everyone must express their views on this, and everyone must take a stand with their vote with the help of the voting machine. Today, the most important thing we have to do here in Parliament is to serve Hungarian interests, and today the most important thing in Parliament is to protect Hungary together. The Fidesz fraction with this parliamentary resolution proposal will give everyone an opportunity to do so. Thank you so much for listening. [[A big round of applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-27-18	State Secretary Csaba Dömötör, please.
u2017-11-27-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. György Soros's proposals in the consultation are not part of an ingenious idea, it gives them a bad sense of weight and importance to integrate them into EU proposals and draft legislation. Which of these are the most important? In particular, the compulsory introduction quota. This is what the billionaire said, that if this does not become a mandatory and permanent element of the EU immigration system, it will collapse. This was voted by the European Parliament some two weeks ago, and this proposal was indeed supported by the Left and the Hungarians at home. Then there's the question of sanctions. This is clearly stated in the draft legislation adopted by the European Parliament that it is necessary to reduce the resources of countries who are unwilling to participate in this resettlement programme. The billionaire point suggested that the EU spend more on immigration by reducing some EU support programmes. Then, on the basis of the mandate adopted by the European Parliament, the so-called sponsorship would be introduced. This would involve NGOs in the resettlement process, and they would be involved; now we understand what the billionaire meant in September 2015 at the call for NGOs to be the sponsors of immigration. The fact that previously published plans come back in order in the EU's proposals is not a coincidence at all, because let's turn to the 2016 Report of the Open Society Foundation for help. They're very clear. They said that we supported influential actors in the area, including think tanks, political analysis centres, civil society networks and their actors, in order to shape migration policy and influence regional and global processes determining the regulation and implementation of migration. They're clear words, they don't need a commentary. György Soros himself shows up before the decisions are made and negotiates in Brussels, without any democratic authority. This year, there was a time when, alongside Commission President Juncker, he could negotiate with two EU Vice-Presidents and three Commissioners. We can almost say that no EU prime minister receives such a welcome in Brussels. [[13.50]] He also met, among other things, Cecilia Wikström, the European Parliament's chief quota negotiator. We don't know what they've decided because they haven't informed us about this, but they do know that this politician is one of the main lobbyists of resettlements. And since the majority of the European Parliament voted on this, the majority supports resettlement, the European Commission also supports it, and it is practically only the European Council, i.e. the Heads of Government, that can prevent this programme from the side of the Member States. Therefore, it does not matter at all what kind of support is behind individual governments, how strong their mandate is. It is therefore of great importance that a large number of people are involved in the consultation, and never so many have been involved. As far as the specific figures - and I am looking at Congressman Hadházy here - are concerned, according to Friday's summaries, 1 million 754 000 people sent the questionnaire back, 155 000 filled out on the Internet, a total of over 1 million 900 thousand - this is a new record - and 489 thousand sheets have already been processed in terms of postal questionnaires. As many questionnaires come back, so many pepper under the nose of opposition parties [[Deterioration in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] which wanted to prevent Hungarians from expressing their views. [[Depletion in the lines of the LMP.]] The blind can see that their goal is to launch resettlement programmes as soon as possible. We are not going to let this happen, and most Hungarians are not, by the looks of it. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Poor Fidesz!]] Thank you for hearing me. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-27-20	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2017-11-27-21	Dear Parliament, György László Lukács, Jobbik; Balázs Simon Róbert, Fidesz applied for a speech after today's agenda. Speaking before the agenda on Tuesday, representatives: Zoltán Lukács, MSZP; Márta Demeter, LMP; Lajos Rig, Jobbik; Péter Harrach, KDNP; Gyula Budai, Fidesz. On Tuesday, Péter Kónya applied for a speech after the agenda, independent. No one came forward on Thursday's day after the agenda.
u2017-11-27-22	Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal for a derogation from house rules. On this day of Parliament's meeting, the House Committee initiates its departure from the House Rules in such a way that Hartyányi Yaroslava is a Ukrainian ethnic advocate before deciding on the agenda proposal, on the occasion of the 85th anniversary of the Great Hunger - Holodomor - Ukraine, for a period of five minutes, so that no further comments can be made. H/18612 proposed a derogation from the house rules. can also be found on the website. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House has unanimously agreed to derogate from the house rules by 134 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, As decided by the Parliament, Mr Yaroslava Hartyányi is speaking before the Ukrainian minority agenda in a five-minute period on the occasion of the 85th anniversary of the great famine - holodomor - in Ukraine. I give the floor to Mrs Yaroslava Hartyányi, who describes the first sentences in her native language and translates them into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2017-11-27-23	Шановний пане Голово, шановнΓ Державни Збори. МаȚ честь вΡд украменич укра.нцив Угорщини, Свитового Конгресу укра.нцив та укра,нського народу висловити слова подяки Парламенту Угорщиниз ту соледарнисть, яку вын проявив 15 рокив тому, прийнявши рзол.ц visiting про Голодомор. Mr President, Dear House, Before I begin my speech, I would like to welcome His Excellency Nepop Liubov, the extraordinary and authorized ambassador of Ukraine to Hungary, and Jevhen Csolilj, President of the Ukrainian World Congress, who came to us from Canada. Mr President, Dear House, I am moved to stand before you as a spokesperson for the Ukrainians in Hungary, because I have the opportunity to speak and thank the Ukrainians in Hungary, the Ukrainian World Congress and the Ukrainian people for their solidarity under the parliamentary resolution of 15 years ago on a matter that affects not only the people of Ukraine, but also the Ukrainians in Hungary. After all, the Holodomor, the descendants of the victims or survivors of the great famine in Ukraine in 1932-33 are still living in Hungary, whose national tragedy is not only history but also personal and family loss. Ukrainians living in Ukraine, Hungary and the world, these days remember the most terrible XX. About the tragedy of the century, when the Soviet Stalin regime for 500 days committed deliberate genocide against the Ukrainians to destroy their national identity, to bring the village population to their knees, because the Ukrainian resistance to the regime with the greatest victims was demonstrated by the Ukrainians in the Soviet Union at that time. Millions of Ukrainians had to die with torture because they spoke Ukrainian, sang and remembered the times when they were a glorious and independent nation. In New York, for example, thousands of people marched on the streets in November of this year, and in Notre Dame they held a large-scale holy liturgy, reminding the world of this terrible tragedy. But there is also such or similar commemoration from the Ukrainians and their sympathizers, the Hungarians, who live all over the world. We Ukrainians in Hungary paid our respects at the memorial place we set up in Budapest and Csömör, and we remembered the 85th anniversary of the Holodomor in the Basilica and in several rural cities. I must point out that the Hungarian Parliament was among the first to express its solidarity with the Ukrainian people, calling it genocide. The Soviet system denied the fact of famine. In 1937 a census was held, which, compared to the previous 1926 figures, showed a huge demographic loss in Ukraine. Stalin gave orders to encrypt the census material and ordered the counter commissioners to be executed. The Parliament on the 70th anniversary of the tragedy, H/6288. He decided to condemn the Holodomor. I quote the resolution of that time. The Parliament expresses the solidarity and sympathy of the Hungarian people towards the relatives, descendants and survivors of about 7 million children, including 3 million victims, who were deliberately caused by the Soviet Stalin system. A survivor remembers: In 1932 we harvested plenty of crops. Our chamber was full of grain. Suddenly, those called activists appeared and sealed our chambers, and the next day they took everything to the last eye. We cried, we cried. Five of us were kids with mom and dad and old grandma. First my little sister died, then my brother died in the field, then my other sister in kindergarten. Soon my grandmother, my dad, and my mom died. I don't know how I managed to survive. In a mitigating circumstance, ten years of forced labour were punished for the perpetrator, who brought home a handful of wheat to starving children. Parents who couldn't stand to watch their child's agony left the little ones on the threshold of the city's children's homes, hoping that their lives might be better there. Ukraine was hermetically blocked, the borders could not be crossed, and the runners were shot. A similar fate awaits those who tried the Polish or Romanian border. In addition, I quote Robert Conquest, American researcher of famine, who planned the famine in Moscow. The Ukrainian peasants were brought into poverty not because they were peasants, but because they were Ukrainians. Thank you again, Hungary, for solidarity! Thank the Hungarian Parliament. God bless Hungary! God bless Ukraine.
u2017-11-27-24	Dear Parliament, I would like to remind you that on 13 November 2017 we took a decision on the private immunity of Mr Ákos Hadházy. Both the proposal for a resolution of the Committee on immunity and the statement by the chairman of the committee pointed out that the Member's immunity was granted in accordance with Article 14.B.222/2017. Békéscsaba District Court in Case No.3 violated the conduct of the personal interview. Since similar violations of immunity have occurred in the past, I have sent a letter to the President of the National Court of Justice and asked for his assistance in taking the general measures necessary to avoid possible future infringements. [[14.00]] Dear House, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Parliamentary resolution on certain house rules 37. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may decide to negotiate certain items of the agenda in a time-frame. The motion put forward by the President initiates the adoption of the V/18483 on the use of EU funds for Hungary for the period 2014-2020. The Parliament will discuss the number 1 proposal in a 4 hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. At the request of the Jobbik Group, the house rule is 37. Paragraph 4 states that the time frame available to the political group will be doubled in the event of the adoption of a time-frame negotiation. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the motion to split the time frame.
u2017-11-27-25	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the proposed timeframe, in the light of the time frame increase, is as follows: 82 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 45 minutes for the MSZP Group, 41 minutes for the Jobbik Group, with a total of 82 minutes, 38 minutes for the KDNP Group, 25 minutes for the LMP Group and 9 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2017-11-27-26	Dear House, Now it's time for the decision. So I ask the Parliament whether it agrees that the presentation will be discussed within the timeframe described by the notary and modified by Jobbik's request. Please vote. [[Vote.]] Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the amendments to the agenda. The Fidesz Group proposed that, on Tuesday's meeting of the Parliament, LXXIV of 2007 on the rules for broadcasting and digital transition. T/1856. CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules for electronic administration and trust services. T/18530. Following a general discussion of the legislative proposal No. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group proposed that T/18533 extending the membership of the pensioner cooperative of general interest. The general debate of bill No. 1 shall not take place at the Parliament's meeting starting on Monday. Anyone who agrees with that, please also indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has also adopted this proposal. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Dear House, In the absence of a committee agreement, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it invites the designated National Defence and Police Committee on the implementation of defence tasks in 2016 and the preparation, state and development of the Hungarian Defence Forces B/18524. for the decision of a confidential submission. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has asked the Committee to take its decision by 139 votes in favour, 6 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Now, at 2:05 p.m., we move on to interpellation and immediate questions. I would like to inform you that, as the Speaker of Parliament, the House Rules of Decision 121. By exercising my authority under paragraph 4 (a) of Section 4 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Attila Mesterházy K/18190, K/18191, K/18193, K/18195, K/18197, K/18199, K/18201. and K/18204. I rejected the written questions submitted to the Minister of National Economy in figures, as the motions do not fall within the remit of the Government. Dear Parliament, István Hiller, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with the title "The High Schools and Hungarian Education." Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-27-27	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear Secretary of State, Several summaries have been published in recent weeks that have shown a radical decline in the number of high school students. These publications report that since 2010, the number of visitors to these secondary public education institutions has decreased by about 20 percent, from approximately 201 thousand to 181 thousand. This reduction is not justified by the already existing and serious demographic problem. In my view, the conscious and flawed concept of your government, Mr Secretary of State, is the real explanation that high school graduation or even higher education is worth less than a certificate awarded in vocational training, and you encourage Hungarian families and young people to go to vocational training instead of a high school or university. My interpellation is to present this fundamental and conceptual difference between us and to ask for your opinion, honourable Secretary of State and the Government. All experience, ladies and gentlemen, domestic and foreign surveys, labour market statements clearly and without exception, states that the graduate earns more in the European Union, but especially in Hungary, he has a better job and a more secure job than the one without a diploma. It is clear that even in times of economic crisis, it is easier to find a job, or it is harder to lose an existing job if you have a degree. To contrast this fact that there are not enough skilled workers in Hungary - which is, in itself, a true claim - is a conceptual mistake. There are not enough skilled workers in Hungary because they are going abroad because your government is unable to create attractive and secure conditions, so those who are missing from the Hungarian labour market work from Slovenia to Germany and from London to Vienna. However, this is no reason to limit access to higher education institutions and to represent an opinion that otherwise reduces the future competitiveness of the current Hungarian youth in the labour market. So, Mr. Secretary of State, what do you think is the explanation for the radical decline in the number of high school students? Why do they not want young Hungarians to go to university? Do you think that skilled workers who go abroad can be replaced by those who would otherwise want to study in high school or higher education? Thank you very much for your reply. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-11-27-28	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-11-27-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Vice President, Congressman! Dear House, I would also like to deny all the facts you have told me and remind you that we should not forget the government that wanted to introduce tuition fees or double youth unemployment when it comes to perspective and vision. You wrote it in an article, or it was quoted from you that you received a text from Ferenc Gyurcsány: come about a tuition fee! That was the short text you said to the Moving World. They left, and we met at her place at 7:30, says you, and we discussed what to do. It was then that they decided to introduce a tuition fee, but they would not call it that, but a development contribution, and at that time all Hungarian students who wanted to learn in higher education were faced with a very big obstacle. Honourable Congressman, When you're here, it would be nice for more people to get a higher education when Ferenc Gyurcsány texted you to come about a tuition fee. Then why didn't you tell me that I wasn't going to negotiate the tuition because it would reduce the opportunities for young people to learn? [[14.10]] At that time, representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party and representatives of the then SZDSZ supported the introduction of tuition fees in Hungary. On the other hand, Fidesz-KDNP has created the possibility of free learning for everyone, the interest rate on Student Loan2 has been abolished, and everyone has free language examination in 35 years. The application fee for old B-cards has been cancelled so that the first three applications can be made free of charge, so that there can be no obstacle to not applying to higher education because there is no money for the admission procedure. We're expanding dormitory seats, and we've also increased PhD students. If you look at the social rates or the proportion of those with different degrees in Hungary, you can see that between 2011 and 2016, the proportion of those with at least a diploma increased from 49 percent to 54,6 percent and 5.5 percent, respectively. The proportion of graduates, i.e. the proportion of graduates increased from 19 percent to 22.8%, by almost 4 percent. It is not true, therefore, what you are saying, honourable Member, that this government would restrain anyone from having the opportunity to graduate or graduate. Remember that we have transformed vocational training by giving more, close to 300 000 young people the opportunity to get qualifications in vocational training. Recently, Eurostat published its order, its register of levels of high school education and vocational training in some countries in 2015. According to Eurostat data, the proportion of students aged 14-18 years increased by 3 percent in Hungary between 2013-15. According to Hungarian statistics, between 2010-17, there was a 9 percent increase in the number of high school students in the age group. But let me quote Eurostat data to you, because you prefer Brussels statistics as a reference. According to this, Hungary has the third highest proportion of high school students, Hungary is behind the high school students in proportion to France, England, Germany, the EU average, Finland or Austria. What do you think of this, honourable Member? You said that the proportion of vocational training in Hungary is too high and that the proportion of high school students is too small. Then what do you think of German data, where Eurostat says that the proportion of students in high school is 20 percent lower? If you were a SPD politician, would you further interpel the German minister why the Hungarian numbers in Germany are not reached by the data of the high school enrollment? Honourable Congressman, As I told you, we are trying to make high school education a hallway for universities, and in recent years, the number and proportion of graduates and graduates have increased. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-27-30	I will ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2017-11-27-31	Mr President, I don't accept the answer. At the same time, thank you, Mr State Secretary, for reading a new chapter from your work on "The Truth," of which we have already seen many chapters - this, please, is absolutely that. I would also like to thank you very much for asking me to give you advice, but I would like to say that you are the Secretary of State for a responsible government. If you ask me, I'd be happy to give you an answer, but then you won't be Secretary of State, because then you'll be another government; so, please, make up your mind. In the case of interpellation, when I ask you, you have to answer and not ask me. In addition, among the facts listed in his so-called reply, the results of the public education publication, which has caused the biggest echo in recent weeks, are the results of the PISA 2015 survey, which shows a falling flight. So, Mr. President, I don't accept the answer. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-27-32	I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 111 votes to 30, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. Out of the future? It's an address. The interpellation will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister by the State Secretary of the Ministry of National Development with responsibility and competence. I'll give the congressman the floor. Here you go.
u2017-11-27-33	Mr President, Dear House, Over the last few months, we have heard on many occasions that the extension of the CSOK, its system, has helped tens of thousands of Hungarian compatriots, and I do not want this to be taken away, and I am very happy about that. At the same time, on many occasions, I have pointed out that the extension of the CSOK can help from the upper middle class to the upper. I'm not sorry for anyone's help, but it seems clear to me that he was targeted by those who least need this construction. However, there is a clear housing crisis in Hungary, and many of the hundreds of thousands of emigrants have chosen jobs and relatively higher salaries in another country because they felt in our country that, in addition to the wage level here, the independent home is unattainable without family support. So I'm speaking here for those who live in hundreds of thousands of panel apartments, they don't get any preferential opportunity to get a home more easily, so, where appropriate, by building a lot of apartments, or if they were to renovate their apartments, if they could expand their properties, and then expand their properties, they could get discounts; according to Jobbik, let's say, by extending the preferential loan for CSOK in a direction where this development is at least one energy level, they could get the whole discount. On the other hand, we see that in Hungary the circle of beneficiaries is limited to richer social groups, and many people do not see the possibility of acquiring their own property over a decade. I would like to point out that everything has a demographic dimension, because many of the children who want to come into the world cannot come because they simply do not have their own property, there is no own habitat where the family can start their own life. In our more fortunate national economies, a rent-apartment programme is also a perfect opportunity. At the same time, we see that Hungarian citizens living in the panel have simply been left out of the standard deviation and the calculations of this government, while even some of the EU funds which have been wasted in a wasteful way could have been involved in the development of real estate by citizens for renovations. At the same time, it was this government that drew the line and used these incoming resources solely for the development of public institutions. Therefore, it did not allow Hungarian citizens living on a very low wage level to develop at least some of their own strength. So the question is: what does this government say to Hungarian citizens living below the upper middle class at the moment? We don't have a ranking in our head, but it's clearly in your world, in its dimension. Jobbik's rental program is good for everyone, it's an opportunity for everyone. The question arises as to what Fidesz-KDNP sends to the others. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-27-34	Mr. Zsolt Szabó has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-11-27-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Socialist governments have dismantled housing subsidies because they have eliminated the Socpol itself. The amount of resources available to raise homes for families in 2010 did not reach 150 billion in the budget, while this year the government provided 211 billion for this purpose, and next year's budget includes some HUF 226 billion for the same purpose. The family home creation discount was introduced from 1 July 2015 and more favourable conditions were established from 15 September 2016. The CSOK has so far facilitated more than 60,000 homes worth 170 billion forints. There is a zero percent credit facility for the energy modernisation of family houses and condominiums. Of these, almost 24,000 residential buildings can be modernised across the country, with a maximum of HUF 10 million for family houses and a maximum of HUF 7 million for condos. The government considers it a major social policy goal to improve the living conditions of some 1.5 million people, and until 2020, we plan to renovate 380 thousand panel apartments, which means a total of nearly HUF 500 billion. [[14.20]] In addition to these grants, the government launched its last project in the autumn of 2014, currently worth HUF 29 billion, with a warm home programme supported by some 140 thousand households, and nearly HUF 25 billion was installed directly from domestic sources. During the period 14-20, it is possible to modernise residential properties from EU sources in the framework of this economic recovery package and within the framework of a separate resource package of the central region, with a zero-percent interest rate. Paragraph 3 of the KyoP priority 5 provides for the development of new renewable energy-based district heating installations instead of old outdated systems. In the development, these facilities will be renewed from a total of HUF 45 billion. All calls for proposals for the measure have already been published and can be followed up factually. Dear Congressman, you have recently welcomed each other so much as a better future. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, Since today's denial of what the former self had done day after day, many believe that it would be justified to say to each other: a better past! [[Noise from Jobbik's benches. Dániel Z. Carpathian applauds.]] As for your opinion on home-building, I would like to ask you one thing. Don't call using a family home creation program a luxury! The discount has already been used by over 60,000 families. You are accusing many families who have more children, who are trying to lead the money, of luxury expenses that you may not have to charge. They do this just because they want and create their own home. I understand that you have orders to override everything on your left. But what kind of net communist tempo is that? - I'm asking. Please accept my reply. [[Delight, applause from the benches of the governing parties. Intercoms from Jobbik's benches. Lajos Rig: Don't be silly.]]
u2017-11-27-36	In return, I give the floor to the congressman. Here you go.
u2017-11-27-37	Mr President, Dear House, I was beginning to enjoy discussing facts, figures, the construction of Hungary, but the fact is that the barmatepó also exploded from the central B and the secretary of state with a three-minute, professional-looking response to the Bolshevik heat roar he gave here. [[Mihály Balla: A fact! That's the strongest thing to do. Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: That's right!]] It's quite pathetic. It is quite pitiful of the B-center, yes, of course it is, but we have to tell you if we want to talk about what you said in response, that negligible sums are being spent at the moment to facilitate the situation of families living typical Hungarian life situations at least a little. You forget to give me an answer. An average young person in Budapest meets a rent of 130-150 thousand HUF, with a very small housing market on a supply side, in fact with a large number of home-building problems, and instead of finding solutions to them together in a way that is above the parties, you will show up with the Bolshevik type of splash. Shame on you. There was no answer that I could accept, but I simply can't find words for his style. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-27-38	I am also searching for the words, but I am now asking this House whether it will accept the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 111 votes to 30, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interview to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office: what is better: a million-dollar debt or a million-dollar help? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, János Süli, who is responsible for planning, building and installing the two new blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, will respond on behalf of Minister of State Attila Aszodi. Congresswoman's got the floor.
u2017-11-27-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, One of the worst, most damaging ideas of the Orbán government, the expansion of Paks, is certainly due to one thing: that the repayment of an account of at least HUF 4000 billion is a burden of HUF 1 million on every Hungarian family. The LMP has a much smarter idea, as you might say: we have found HUF 4000 billion to modernise the domestic housing stock. Most Hungarians live in homes with high energy bills and needing modernisation, and even the most well-founded investments are difficult to fit into the family budget. The experts of the LMP calculated that if the Hungarian state renounces the completely unnecessary Paks expansion of Russian interest and corruption, then we can provide a million HUF of non-refundable support to the energy efficiency modernisation of homes, thermal insulation, the replacement of windows, the renovation of the heating system. If implemented, this could be the biggest economic development program in Hungary's history. We want every Hungarian person, every Hungarian family to live in a comfortable and modern home, but this program promises more. Home model experiments show that after a complex energy efficiency upgrade, the energy consumption of an average apartment can be reduced by 40-50 percent. This means a permanently 40-50 percent lower energy bill and huge energy savings. The 4,000 billion forints the Orbán government wants to give to the Russians, we'd rather give it to people so they can use it to modernize their own home. Thus, according to our experts' calculations, we save enough energy in the residential energy sector to trigger Paks II. its structure. It's a win-win. Hungarian families can live their lives in more comfortable and valuable properties, with lower rent, and the Hungarian state is free of nuclear risk, nuclear waste management expenses and unilateral Russian dependence. As a bonus, local businesses are getting jobs everywhere, the local economy is booming, also in settlements where they have not yet known that there is a local economy, instead of boosting the Russian economy with the money of Hungarian taxpayers. This is an offer for the future that has been considered in all its elements, which can bring the country into a new path. Mr Secretary of State, I would like to know whether the Orbán Government is willing to review its position on Paks II and instead state that all Hungarian households will receive a million-dollar subsidy to reduce energy consumption. Thus, they would not put a million-dollar burden on every household in order to build an unnecessary Russian nuclear power plant. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-11-27-40	The Secretary of State has the right to reply. Here you go.
u2017-11-27-41	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and What I would like to say to you first of all is that it is very regrettable that various issues and opinions are being formulated from the lines of the LMP on energy issues again and again, which show that you do not understand energy. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: nor!]] They mix things up that don't belong to each other. You were talking about how in your opinion, the thermal insulation of the apartments could trigger the construction of new blocks in Paks. Let me give you an example through which you may understand why your assumption is wrong. If you go walking down the street at this time, you'll probably put on a coat. He's wearing his jacket because it's thermal insulation. But your thermal insulation doesn't affect how much electricity the trams use on the street, or how much electricity the street lights use. It's the same with the houses. Today, most of our households in Hungary are heated with the help of natural gas. We still have firewood and other fuels, but basically we heat households using natural gas. Energy saving and energy efficiency are very important, it is very important that households renew and use as little heating energy as possible, but the insulation of heat for houses will not reduce electricity demand, as I said, because we are heating our households with natural gas. In other words, thermal insulation will result in natural gas savings. So you can't replace Paks II. construction. According to Mavir's forecast, by 2030, we need 7000 megawatts of new power plant capacity in Hungary. Of this 7000 megawatts, 2400 megawatts are Paks II, so Paks II is still in itself. construction does not solve all electrical energy problems. However, thermal insulation is not an alternative to power plant construction, as we are already in a power plant deficit period, and in the next period significant capacity will fall out of the electricity grid, and new power plants should be built. Moreover, this is confirmed by the fact that electricity consumption in Hungary has increased by 2.65 percent in the last ten months. [[14.30]] We are in a significant period of electricity demand growth, which can only be resolved safely if new power plants are built. Our goal is to build these plants in Hungary. Our goal is not, like you, to go abroad with these capacities. Supply security, safe energy supply and electricity supply for consumers, the public and industry are served by the establishment of power plants in Hungary. It is also very important to mention that it would be useful to have as much electricity-based heating as possible in Hungary in order to protect air purity. It is a serious problem in the country that the air is contaminated during winter. By heating households directly with flashes or heat pumps, it would significantly improve air purity and thus significantly improve the living conditions of Hungarians. I think that everyone who is responsible for energy needs to support the Paks II project, because it provides electricity to the population, industry and the service sector at a low cost. By the way, I also note that in Hungary about one third of electricity consumption is used in the population, industry, agriculture and services use the remaining two thirds, so the transformation would not interfere as you suggested. Please accept my answer. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-27-42	I ask the Member to accept the reply of the Secretary of State.
u2017-11-27-43	I don't accept the answer. Secretary of State, I'm sure we'll be arguing about Paks II for a very long time, as long as you don't stop this investment. There's no doubt in your mind. By the way, you know very well that there is an energy revolution going on in the world, and that development is more devoted to those areas than the renewable energy industry. Hungary should also focus on this. I'm sure you'll see that Paks II. One of the worst investments of the century. We are talking about 4000 billion, but we know that in large investments that are placed on the table in advance and calculated, there are usually multiples. And what is unbelievable, as Secretary of State Csepreghy said, is that the Russian party has made a commitment that, if this investment is not 4,000 billion, but more, they will take on the surplus. Well, I'm talking about the Russian side. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I don't suppose so.
u2017-11-27-44	I ask the House whether it accepts the reply of the Secretary of State. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 111 votes to 15, with 10 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Alpár Gyopáros, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:. What is the investment environment in Hungary today? What do recent figures show? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2017-11-27-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The German-Hungarian Chamber of Industry and Commerce published a recent survey of how German companies in Hungary appreciate the business environment a few weeks ago. In almost all questions, the responses of the company managers were even more optimistic than in the last April survey. Nearly 70 percent of the hundreds of companies surveyed [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] considers its own economic situation to be good, which is the highest rate since 2005. 52 percent of the directors said that they expect further improvement in the next 12 months, above which the Chamber has never experienced a higher proportion. The survey also shows that in the near future 56 percent of German companies in Hungary are planning to increase their investments and 61 percent are planning to expand their numbers; both are unprecedented records. The image of German companies about the state of the Hungarian national economy and the business environment in Hungary is of key importance, as more than 6 thousand such companies operate in Hungary, which give jobs to some 300 thousand people in total, and nearly one third of the foreign working capital stock present in Hungary comes from Germany. That these companies are planning to expand, it also means that they will have new Hungarian people working with them, that new Hungarian companies will be strengthened as suppliers or partners, and together they will make a significant contribution to the growth of Hungarian exports and the Hungarian economy. To mention only the latest example, the Hungarian subsidiary of Edelmann will increase the capacity of the packaging plant in Zalaegerszeg by investing HUF 3.2 billion, thereby creating 100 new jobs. The Fidesz-KDNP government has done a lot since 2010 to ensure that German companies can look to the future with such optimism, but the emphasis is not on German companies, but rather that their confidence in Hungary is good news for maintaining the growth path of the Hungarian economy, which is good news for all Hungarian people. Dear Secretary of State, What is the result of this excellent historical achievement that has never been seen before? What role did the Government of Hungary and the economic recovery decisions taken by the government have in achieving these results? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-27-46	I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Magyar Levente. Here you go.
u2017-11-27-47	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, As far as the role of the government in these successes is concerned, I must say that the role of the government is rather modest, since the majority of the success, the majority of the success, can be known to the Hungarian people. The Hungarian government only created a set of conditions between which these economic successes could unfold. However, let us face it and accept that the Hungarian people have created the economic performance that these figures are about during the busy weekdays, honourable Member. Indeed, I can confirm that the economic activity surveys carried out among around 6,000 German companies present in Hungary have never been as positive as last time. This means that these companies, which provide a livelihood and work for some 300 thousand Hungarians, 300 thousand Hungarian families, are satisfied with the domestic investment environment, and indeed, if they were to make a decision again with Hungary, they confirm that this decision would be made again, and what is more, four fifths of them are planning to invest in Hungary in the future as well. Honourable Congressman, What I would point out from all this data is that we must not forget what a huge journey we have come in recent years so that Hungary, the Hungarian people, can produce these results. I would like to illustrate this with a few numbers, which are shocking, even if we remember exactly what state the country and the economy were in seven years ago. In 2010, honourable Member, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, the number of projects which the Hungarian Investment Agency positively closed and awarded to support was 6 in 2016, 71. In 2010, the number of jobs created by new projects was 1067, worth some EUR 0.2 billion, and in 2016 it was 17,647, i.e. 17 times the figure in 2010. As far as the value of the projects is concerned, we can talk about 16 times the increase, as we can talk about 3.2 billion investments, which means almost 1000 billion HUF. What is extremely important, honourable Member, is that our economic competitiveness has been strengthened to such a spectacular and unheard of extent, thanks to one of Europe's most flexible labour codes, thanks to the low and decreasing tax and contribution burden, thanks to the advanced infrastructure, thanks to the generous support of R &amp; D development, thanks to the skilled and affordable workforce, and it is very important to note that our economic competitiveness has now been complemented with a kind of security competitiveness and stability competitiveness, which is taken into account by foreign investors or even by Hungarian companies in decisions on these investments. The context is very simple: a country that protects itself against external threats, a country that does not allow the tensions and tensions in society that we see as a security factor in many Western European countries as a result of illegal migration, in such a country, will have much greater confidence in investors in the long term than in increasingly unstable and tense societies. Stability competitiveness is also very important, honourable Member. Today Hungary is one of Europe's most stable political systems, whether we look at the neighbouring countries or if we look at this in a Central European comparison, or if we project this comparison to the major Western European countries. I think these are results for which Hungary and the Hungarian people are all [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] You should be proud. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[14.40]]
u2017-11-27-48	To rejoin Mr Alpár Gyopáros, I give the floor again.
u2017-11-27-49	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Of course, I accept your answer, especially with regard to two circumstances. The strengthening of investor confidence, which praises the government's work, is commendable for two factors. One is the geographical factor, because it is worth saying - the 16 + 1 Central European-China meeting is taking place today - that our business trade relations with our traditional partners are strengthening and improving, while the result of the Eastern and Southern opening also strengthens non-traditional trade relations. And the other is the time factor. Let me just say one number: the numbers I mentioned in the interpellation, what they looked like in 2009, how German companies felt about the business situation of their own company in 2009, 16 percent said positively, that is 68 percent today. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to congratulate the Minister and the Ministry's staff on their work. I wish you good luck in the future. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-27-50	Dear Parliament, Mr Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. Where is the solution of the systemic problems identified by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights in public employment? It's an address. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew: Nowhere!]] Did the congressman ask the other Member or the Minister of the Interior? [[Nándor Gúr: Minister of the Interior. Dr. Zsolt Legény: Minister of the Interior.]] Good. Then, please, please.
u2017-11-27-51	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, László Székely revealed a multitude of operational and regulatory system problems in connection with the examination of the public employment and labour organisation system. The difficulties of moving from the labour market to the labour market or the labour market are not only considered, but also placed on a real basis, it shows that public employment programmes can be planned - or I could say from the other side: its uncertainty - is shown in this study. There are a lot of small settlements in Hungary, and obviously you know that, and in almost many of these settlements, public employment is given by the municipalities as a single employment opportunity. The role of the municipality and the mayor is appreciated, and not only is it valued, but it is often misunderstood, because they themselves wish to make it so, who often put people in a vulnerable position within the framework of public employment. The study also refers to the importance of training. It also refers to the fact that access to the primary labour market and the synchronity of training are in fact in place, or how strong asyncability is in this regard, or how the withdrawal of the labour market in relation to employment in public employment looks from the primary labour market. But it also reveals anomalies, it also discovers that the employer is responsible for the contribution of the sickness allowance; the public employee, the public worker, has to pay this expenditure in practice, while there is no wage or contribution claim for the period of sick leave, but the liability and the payment obligation passed on. The primary issue is obviously access to the labour market, with many shortcomings in this respect. One is that the active labour market network tool system is not working, it has been destroyed in recent years, and the other is that the security of transition is not granted to the person concerned and to the families, and public employment training plans do not take into account labour market needs, often based on l Where are they, in fact, with regard to the detection and elimination of operational and regulatory system problems? Thank you very much.
u2017-11-27-52	I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go.
u2017-11-27-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, According to the interpellation, the condition of interpellation in itself indicates that, somewhere in his heart, the Member trusts the Government, since the inquiry to which you refer appeared on the Ombudsman's website on 20 November and has arrived or arrived at the Ministry of Interior. Obviously, if you trust that the government can react so quickly and intervene so quickly in the interests of the people, you will trust the government and you will do the right thing, honourable Member. You do the right thing, because during your administration in this country, there were about 3.7 million employees, today we are over 4.7 million. 741 thousand more people have been working in this country since Fidesz-KDNP took over, and unemployment in terms of time has decreased by 60 percent since 2010. The government has announced that everyone who can take a job can get a job. One element of this is the public employment, which we have always said and always say is that this is a temporary opportunity for a public employee, if any, and the public employment system itself is temporary. However, the system of public employment has allowed people who have been excluded from the primary labour market to live in areas where there is no other employment opportunity because of economic policy errors for decades, to have access to public employment wages, not to support their families. Moreover, these people have become respected members of their narrower community, and these people have also received their own self - respect by being concerned about their community, by continuing to work. Of course, as I said, this is a temporary situation and we are confident that as many people as possible will get out of public employment back into the labour market. This is also indicated by the fact that, while 223 thousand people were employed in 2016, the number is expected to fall to 175 thousand in 2017 and this number will fall to 150,000 by 2020. We contribute to the placement of the public workers in the primary labour market by training in the labour market, but we also help to ensure that the public employee can leave public employment without paying for 120 days in order to work. Public workers are entitled to a working time allowance for job search purposes, to participate in agricultural work in the form of simplified employment and to open labour market offers in the case of public employment in the case of adequate employment. The public employee can benefit from a job placement in the competition sector and, of course, continue training programmes for employees in the public employment sector. In addition, we have provided more than 900 000 people with active labour market measures and job preservation to ensure that they do not lose their jobs. I think, honourable Member, that all the steps that the country's economic situation has taken [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] we have done so for the public workers, and, of course, by examining the Ombudsman's report, we will give the right answers. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-27-54	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer. Here you go.
u2017-11-27-55	No, I don't accept that answer. The reason I don't accept it is because the problems of the fidesz eight years behind them cannot be put back into place by pointing back at them. No, I don't accept that answer because you haven't answered my question. When I say that, for the time of sick leave, you don't give employers any kind of support for wages or contributions, you don't say a single orphan's voice about it. I do not accept it because, with regard to active employment policy, you have liquidated all the instruments that have been present on the stage of active employment policy. You're just looking at the public employees as a statistical subject. You offered them 47 thousand forints against the net of 60 200 forints in 2010, this money is still 54 thousand forints after eight years. You are maintaining vulnerability, increasing uncertainty and strengthening dependence. What they're doing, what they've been doing for eight years, is shameful. And you still want to go back? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Shame! I don't accept it. [[14.50]]
u2017-11-27-56	I ask the House whether it accepts the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 103 votes to 30, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. Permanently slippery subsidies, over-regulated system, anti-farming attitude. Why can't we be a normal country? It's an address. The interpellation will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister by the Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, which is competent according to the subject. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-27-57	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Today, of the many problems of Hungarian agriculture, I am looking at those which do not require any additional resources, but only a fair, efficient and lifelike attitude, especially from you. Let's see what's going on with the payment of agricultural subsidies. The person concerned knows that payments for farmers are delayed year after year. This is a recurring problem. Although it is not known exactly how many farmers are affected by these delays, this figure depends on which ministry I am asking, but in any case I have received specific indications that the farmers concerned did not even receive eco-aids from 2016. There are also many who are avoided payment of the aid advance. For example, anyone asking for change can be sure to expect serious delays, and between January and April, it is unlikely that he will receive his support. It seems, then, that, with you, change management is some sort of punishment. It is completely incomprehensible to farmers and to me why a change of between 1 and 2% of the amount of aid means that the total amount of aid must be withheld for more than half a year. We also have a lot of complaints about the problems of office communication. The county and national customer services refuse to provide virtually any useful information concerning the real state of administration. The most common answer is that your case is being handled, we don't know when the results will be. Besides, the deadline for the decision and payment will not have any consequences for you. If there is a deadline, you can extend it in order and arbitraryly at any time. Moreover, the most outrageous thing is that the administrator often informs the complainant that he can complain, but there is no consequence of it, except that the troublesome farmer's case is classified further. Those who receive a letter from the Office may find that they often have to cross the lines 8 to 12 that the farmer would have to reply to in substance. The Office's electronic system is also extremely complicated, even those with computer use are stuck on it, unable to upload an annex or respond to any questions. I stress that this is not their fault. In addition, these subsidies are an integral part of farming for tens of thousands of Hungarian farmers, which will pay off the capital of their business loans, buy machines and pay their partner bills. So it's not that they get some kind of bonus or extra discount from you, it's an integral part of farming. On this basis, I think we are right to ask when to take meaningful action, when to stop this anti-farming behaviour, when to become a normal European country for farmers. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-27-58	I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2017-11-27-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government's aim is to make all budgetary payments through the Hungarian Treasury as far as possible. As a result, the institution's responsibilities have increased significantly, while public financial payments and audits continue to take place on time and at a high professional level. This is also true of agricultural subsidies, where the Treasury paid some HUF 471.6 billion until 24 November 2017, which exceeds the same period of the previous year by HUF 37.8 billion. Among other things, the advance payment is in the interest of farmers, under which the Treasury grants 24 items this year. The Treasury started the advance payment of the 2017 single applications at the earliest possible date under Community legislation on 16 October 2017 and received some HUF 190.1 billion from more than 157 thousand customers until 24 November 2017. I also deny that there will be no further payment this year, as additional amounts of aid will be paid in advance by 30 November and payments will continue scheduled from December to ensure that eligible farmers receive the aid as soon as possible before the deadline of 30 June under Community legislation. With regard to the change management process and its criticism of aerial recordings, I would like to inform you that aerial recordings are updated on a three-year cycle in accordance with the standards. At the same time, all customers have the opportunity to initiate a change management procedure, which does not entail any punishment. After processing the applications, the farmers concerned shall immediately receive the aid they are entitled to. In 2017, the Treasury introduced a new procedure for the management of requests for change, where, contrary to your claim, the audit applied already allows for an advance payment in the areas. As regards the lack of customer-friendly procedures, I would like to inform you that both the Hungarian State Treasury and the county government's customer-service staff will provide all the assistance they can to farmers who come to them with their problems. Indeed, according to the current legal requirements, customers cannot be given detailed information about certain phases of the control process, as this would put the effectiveness of the verification at risk, but farmers may, at any time and with any questions or requests, first of all, contact the county government services and receive all the assistance they need. With regard to its comment on the non-use of bank certificates, I indicate that, on the basis of the feedback received to Treasury, the certificates issued were in most cases appropriate for the credit and factoring transactions of customers. The general criticism of the Office's electronic system is completely unfounded, as evidenced by the number of applications and cases settled. If you look only at the single requests for 2017, 177 807 customers have successfully submitted their application. Tens of thousands of applicants have submitted successful applications for measures under the rural development programme. Honourable Congressman, We can't accept your criticism, the Treasury is doing its job at a high level. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-27-60	I ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2017-11-27-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I was a little confused about the fact that the Secretary of State replied, since about a quarter of my questions belonged to you, but this was also seen from the answer, as you read them, since we received absolutely unviable answers. The fact that there is a continuous and high quality of work in the Treasury, unfortunately, a large part of farmers do not yet experience it, and they do take it as a punishment when one to two percent of the total aid is involved in the matter that creates a debate between you and the farmers, and the total amount of support is withheld, even in practice for half a year, but this has acknowledged it, just saying that it is not a punishment. It's a punishment! During this six-month period, these farmers cannot invest, pay their loans, nor can they start or plan next year's farming. Can you imagine, Secretary of State, what would happen in the operation of such an anti-host system, say, in France? A small revolution would break out between the state and the farmers. You must be very pleased that Hungarian farmers have endured this peacefully, but they are very tired of it. Radical change is needed to make the system more economical. I can't accept your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-27-62	I ask this House whether it accepts the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 106 votes to 27, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Rózsa Hoffmann, representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with the title "The Unlimited Programme - One of the Foundations of Alliance." Congresswoman's got the floor. [[15.00]]
u2017-11-27-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In October 2010, the House adopted a resolution that allowed Hungarian schoolchildren to visit Hungary at least once in their lives, as schoolchildren, with state aid to cross-border areas, and as many Hungarians from abroad can visit Hungary as possible through exchanges. This was the start of the Unlimited! programme, which has enabled 200 thousand Hungarian students to travel abroad since 2013 and 12 thousand Hungarian students from across borders to visit the country. The programme was attended by the 7th-grade students of 1400 schools from abroad, and 9th-grade secondary school students can cooperate with their fellow Hungarians of similar age through a project that can be implemented jointly. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The government's aim with this program is to ensure that no one can complete their school studies without having at least once a state aid in their life personally gain experience in cross-border areas about how Hungarians live there, in blocks or sporadics, in the Highlands, Vojvodina, Transylvania or even Transcarpathia. In addition to national integration and the experience of Hungarian-Hungarian personal relationships, you can visit the famous sites and geography known from Hungarian history and cultural history. It is in the common interest of all of us that these initiatives can be implemented. As a Christian Democratic MEP, I see that it is important for the Fidesz-KDNP government and our Members of Parliament to establish a relationship based on personal experiences in addition to dual citizenship. The government provides assistance in the form of a tender grant, from which the cost of travel, accommodation, meals, daily allowances, the fees of project managers or the cost of museum tickets is eligible. In full recognition of the objectives of the programme, I ask, Mr Secretary of State, what the experience of the programme and tendering has been, and how much the government is spending on continuing this successful programme this year. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-27-64	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Miklós Soltész responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-27-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Congresswoman, Indeed, many steps have been taken in recent years by national unification and nation building, and it is obviously very important to support Hungarian schools, Hungarian churches and culture abroad. But the unification of the nation is also part of the launch and extension of the Unlimited! program. This has not always been the case, and not all governments have always thought that such steps should be taken towards Hungarians living in torn areas. Think back to the referendum on 5 December 2004, which, unfortunately, will soon be a sad anniversary, when Ferenc Gyurcsány wanted to break up the national parts even more, based on envy. And unfortunately, there are Members in Parliament who have been actively involved in this. In the same way, it was not always the case when we made the very important decision mentioned by you in 2010, we voted on dual citizenship. In the current term, there are also Members who voted against: Ferenc Gyurcsány, and, let us say, Tibor Szanyi and Csaba Molnár, who are now dealing with the implementation of the Soros plan in the European Parliament, not with the unification of Hungarians, but with the import of other aliens in the European Parliament. By the way, Lajos Oláh, Timea Szabó, abstained at the time, and it must be said that there was a special shame in the behaviour of the party then calling itself radical. After all, Gábor Vona, Márton Gyöngyösi and Dániel Z. Kárpát did not take part in the vote because they thought that what the nation thought was not important to them. I hear István Szávay yelling already. I would just like to tell István Szávay that on your Facebook page, the following appeared from the party's President Zoltán Szotyori-Lázar. The majority of Transylvanian Hungarians, like North American Indians, can be bought with a handful of glass beads. This handful of glass beads was dual citizenship. "As bitter as it is to say," said the better party leader, "they did not deserve it. There is a greater willingness to go mad than in Hungary. Then, when the Transylvanians called for an apology for the righty party president of Szolnok, he said: "You are not holy cows over there, who cannot be criticized, but, unfortunately, a mass more prone to demention. 'A leader of Jobbik,' said one of the leaders. [[György Balla: Gábor Vona's godson.]] It was also important to talk about it a little, perhaps, because those tens of thousands of children and young people, 7th graders, or the 9th grade high school students in the exchange program, who in fact over the past few years have reached nearly 200,000 people across the border, to the Highlands or Vojvodina, to the South, to Partium or to Transcarpathia, thank God, they no longer take that view as the opposition in Parliament. They, thank God, experience that it is worth doing everything for the Hungarians who live there, and are often shocked by the fact that, despite 500, 600 or 1,000 kilometers of distance, they hear Hungarian words, Hungarian songs, and they hear what they should actually hear from everyone here in the mother country. For this reason, honourable Member, it is perfectly natural that the Hungarian Government, the Fidesz-KDNP Parliamentary Alliance, will continue to maintain the Unlimited Programme, as a result more than 200,000 people were able to reach the areas we talked about from HUF 8.7 billion. I trust that the voices of the opposition will not disturb children or young people. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-27-66	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2017-11-27-67	Yes, Secretary of State, it was a pleasure to hear what all well-meaning Hungarians around the world agree on how much our government listens to national politics, the fate of all Hungarians. After all, the Unlimited!-program, along with many other supported projects, is an integral part of our national policy, the unification of the nation. Perhaps many of us remember the sad experiences that became known at the dawn of the change of regime and talked about the fact that young people who arrived randomly across the border looked at each other and asked their teacher why people speak Hungarian here. Of course, this time is over. Unfortunately, it cannot be said that most European decision-making politicians are aware of the situation and think the same way. Of course, I accept your answer, my dear Secretary of State, and I ask you to continue with this and many other national unification programmes. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-27-68	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Kónya, an independent Member, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. Why is the Orbán government afraid of enhanced cooperation with the European Public Prosecutor's Office? It's an address. In reply to the interpellation, the Prime Minister appointed Minister for Justice László Trócsányi, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister Pál Völner, State Secretary, he responds to the interpellation. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-11-27-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, On 5 October 2017, at the plenary session of the European Parliament in Strasbourg, the European Public Prosecutor's Office for Cross-border Corruption and Family Crimes was voted in favour of the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor's Office without the vote of the Fidesz Hungarian MEPs. So far, 20 EU Member States, including the neighbouring Slovenia, Slovakia, Romania, Austria, have joined or indicated their accession to the so-called enhanced cooperation with this prosecutor. [[15.10]] The European Public Prosecutor's Office will be entitled, under certain conditions, to conduct investigations and prosecutions in the event of fraud and fraud involving the EU Structural Funds and other crimes affecting the Union's finances and interests, thereby contributing to the strengthening and more effective protection of the EU budget. The accession to the Member States is voluntary, but several EU leaders, including Mr Jourová, European Commission Justice Commissioner, have also said that Member States which do not ensure transparency, non-corruption, the rule of law in the future budget cycle can be deprived of significant subsidies. Since the Hungarian Government has not yet indicated Hungary's accession or its intention to join, I have submitted a proposal for a resolution to this Parliament, which, after the Committee on European Affairs of Parliament, on 14 November 2017, you have not included in the series of articles. During the debate on the subject series, my fellow members of the Government argued and argued that Hungary's sovereignty could be violated during a possible accession, and this could raise constitutional concerns. It is obvious that the operation of such an organisation, such as the creation of a common European army, which would otherwise be supported by the Orbán government, could raise such questions, but at the same time the twenty accession Member States are not at all disturbed. Then why would it bother us? The so-called granite-solid Fundamental Law has been amended several times by you. In the course of the debate, I indicated that my opposition colleagues and I are ready to ensure a two-thirds majority in order to amend the Fundamental Law, if that is the only obstacle to Hungary joining the European Public Prosecutor's Office. It is therefore false to reject, on the basis of the Fundamental Law, that a European Public Prosecutor's Office should be able to control the use of the funds paid by European taxpayers and to initiate proceedings in the event of abuse if the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office does not do so. In a country where members of government and pro-government representatives are not involved in corruption, it is in their interest to avoid embarrassing fraudsters. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] So they're willing to let the European Public Prosecutor's Office investigate with a calm heart [[The president's ringing again.]] They have nothing to hide, nothing to fear. I therefore ask why the Orbán government is afraid of enhanced cooperation with the European Public Prosecutor's Office. I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-27-70	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The interpellation will be answered by Völner Pair of State Secretarys. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-27-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In advance, the Orbán government is not afraid of anything in this proposal. The Hungarian Government has always agreed with the fundamental objectives behind the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and in view of which, at the time of the adoption of the Lisbon Treaty, Member States have created the possibility of creating such a body. All this time, we have taken part in these negotiations with great professional work, constructively, and, while maintaining legal certainty, we have kept in mind the aim of creating a well-functioning and efficient organisation in practice. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, by setting up the European Public Prosecutor's Office, Member States would hand over some of their most important competences to the European Union, with a view to limiting their criminal sovereignty and one of the essential functions of the State. Therefore, we believe that accession to the Regulation can only be accepted if it fully respects the constitutional arrangements of the Member States and fundamental principles of European Union law such as subsidiarity and proportionality. Unfortunately, during the negotiations that have taken place, although we have always demonstrated our willingness to compromise, it has not been the result that has respected these efforts and, under the current conditions, it is not in Hungary's interest to participate in enhanced cooperation. The accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office may be symbolic and, in particular, its political message should not override the professional aspects of effective law enforcement as well as constitutional and public security aspects. The Hungarian Government therefore decided, following the preliminary resolution of the Parliament, not to participate in the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, including in enhanced cooperation. I would also note that it is not alone in the EU Member States, since the United Kingdom, Denmark, Ireland, the Netherlands, Sweden, Malta and Poland have likewise been left out of this cooperation. So when we are asked to do so, perhaps we should ask the other states on what basis they have reached this decision. However, we would like to stress that Hungary is loyal and will cooperate with the European Public Prosecutor's Office in a spirit of cooperation, and that not taking part in the establishment of the Prosecutor's Office should not result in a reduction in the domestic level of the fight against crimes which also harm the European Union's financial interests. In order to maximise the effectiveness of law enforcement activities, our authorities continue to pay attention to cooperation with existing and well-established European agencies, in particular Eurojust, which, while maintaining its importance, the Hungarian Government usually stands out in European fora. I am very pleased with the Member's comment on the rule of law, but at the same time I would like to mention that on 7 November 2017, you published an entry available on the Community side of the Bolshevik mob, in which you remembered the Russian coup of November 1917. The post contains the following lines: I did not dream that 28 years after the change of regime, I would look out the window of Parliament reminiscent of the forgotten past, hoping that the Hungarian Aurora cruiser would swim up the Danube. I don't think any good-hearted man would have thought that 28 years after the change of regime, a Member of Parliament would rethink the communist dictatorship with nostalgia, and would like a Bolshevik coup d'état to overthrow Hungarian democracy. Honourable Congressman, Last Saturday we remembered the many hundreds of thousands of our countrymen who were forced to work by the Soviets, and you violated the memory of these victims with this post. We deeply condemn such manifestations, and it is time to apologize to the relatives of those who have been taken away. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right! Now apologize. Let's hear it.]]
u2017-11-27-72	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Apologize!]]
u2017-11-27-73	Thank you. Of course, I do not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'm glad you're reading my posts on Facebook so carefully, it's only good if I quote you correctly, and your entire context, because you could take them from you. But to answer the points of substance, honourable Members, Mr Péter Polt has recently answered a written question to me, and according to this, OLAF has made recommendations on 34 criminal proceedings in corruption cases between 2010 and 2017. [[István Szilárd Németh: State's Attorney!]] compared to that, only nine cases ended with charges. This also shows that, unfortunately, the prosecutor has not answered my question about how many Hungarian citizens or civil society organisations have otherwise filed a complaint. As far as I know, opposition parties have already reported more than a hundred cases, but there has not been any procedure to settle corruption cases in EU money. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I want to tell you so much, and then I'll finish. [[The president's ringing again.]] That's...
u2017-11-27-74	Congressman, your time limit is up. I'm so sorry.
u2017-11-27-75	I'm done.
u2017-11-27-76	Will you accept the answer or not? Thank you very much.
u2017-11-27-77	I don't accept it if it's my fellow Members. [[The president's gonna turn off his mic.]] They won't accept it, they'll be living corruption.
u2017-11-27-78	Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes in favour, 24 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interview to the Minister for National Development:. Why doesn't the government prepare the country to adapt to the consequences of climate change? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-11-27-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, For many times, I appeal to Minister Sesztas with the question of what will happen to the discussion of the national climate change strategy by Parliament. This spring, the government submitted NÉS to Parliament for the second time, but we did not put it on the agenda. What do you think of the reasons for this? Why is one of the country's strategic documents on environmental security still not before this House? There is no need to justify the actuality of the case. The message of Pope Francis about the global crisis, including his encyclical on the overall causes and options of climate change, was presented in the walls of this House, including with the assistance of the President of the Republic. More than 15,000 leading scientists in the world have recently confronted the leaders of the Earth's countries with environmental problems that, within a short period of time, cause the natural ecosystems that live on us and, together with them, the loss of peoples and cultures, or at least irreversibly negative changes in their fate. [[15.20]] Looking at the data for the last 25 years, the problem is even bigger than it was. And this diagnosis is also true for Hungary. There is a constant warning from science, professional and civil society organisations that climate change is endangering our prospects for life. Despite this, the government has removed government representation of environmental and nature protection, sabotaged the climate change strategy on the agenda, and has not heard the LMP's proposals for solutions. This puts the future of Hungarian people at risk. Mr. Secretary. In November 2017, at the UN Climate Summit in Bonn, 200 countries discussed the rules for implementing the Paris Agreement. It would be good to know with which mandate Hungary has gone to the negotiations, what we are doing in terms of greenhouse gas emissions and adaptation. Do you carry out an assessment, knowing that, according to the analyses published at the climate summit, Hungary has been classified as one of the low climate protection countries? Will NÉS answer that question? Do you not think that some of the amendments made by the Fidesz-KDNP majority in recent years, such as forest law and water management law, are already undermining the objectives of NÉS? The government should remember its responsibility: Hungary is one of the most vulnerable countries in terms of the expected impacts of climate change. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-11-27-80	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Zsolt Szabó responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-27-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Congresswoman, I'm sure you know that climate change policy [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] under Article 4 of the Agreement with the European Union, shared competence between the EU and the Member States is one of them. This means that, for example, at the session of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, we are negotiating with the EU as one actor, and in practice this means that Hungary will establish a single EU position together with the other Member States before the session, and then Hungary will represent it in the negotiations. At the Bonn Climate Summit, which you asked, it was the first time within the European Union that we discussed the detailed arrangements for the implementation of the Paris Agreement ratified by Hungary and its content. We agreed with the other Member States of the European Union that the more favourable political atmosphere generated by the Paris Agreement, that is to say commitment, should continue to be maintained and should be accepted at the so-called COP 24 meeting in December 2018 at the latest. It is essential to establish the content of the detailed rules for the implementation of the agreement, which are still being developed, I stress, at EU level. With regard to commitments made in international fora, I am pleased to report that our emission reduction targets for 2020 will be met, i.e. we will reduce our CO2 emissions to a greater extent than we would have expected, and the European Union will also have to do so. In international law, Hungary has also been the first to ratify this treaty, the Doha Amendment to the so-called Kyoto Protocol, in the same way as the Paris Climate Convention was adopted as the first. We are also the first within the European Union to conclude the Montreal Protocol on the emission reduction of so-called fluorinated gases, and together with the Kigali amendments, we are also at the forefront of this within the European Union. In fact, Hungary is one of the most vulnerable countries in terms of the expected impacts of climate change, and we are therefore particularly concerned with the adoption of applications. Within priority KEOP I, adaptation to the impacts of climate change is considered to be the number one priority. Here, the annual development framework is around HUF 380 billion, and according to the latest figures, we have decided to use some HUF 333 billion with 97 contracts. The LIFE programme, the EU's environmental programme, has been extended as a sub-programme for climate policy since 2014, with administrative coordination in our wallet, and we keep the standards that we have agreed to. Based on the results of the 2016 tender year, the first Hungarian-led climate policy project was launched. The priority of this is adaptation to climate change, tackling extreme climatic impacts, and preparing for this. The so-called Second National Climate Change Strategy, which was revised in accordance with the Paris Agreement adopted in December 2015, was presented to the Parliament in May this year, an action plan is being prepared to implement the objectives, following the adoption of the document, which is already under way, which will include monitoring and monitoring. Thank you very much for listening to me, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-27-82	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-11-27-83	I don't accept the answer, Mr. President. I do not get an answer when we will discuss the revised version of the national climate change strategy here in Parliament. Every time I ask, you're wrong. More than two years ago, before the Paris Agreement, the Paris Climate Summit, here was the first version on the table, you withdrew it. They just filed it in May, but it's on the table somewhere. Why aren't you here? I'd like to know. It is very few for you to say that Hungary was the first to join the ratification countries. It's not enough on an international level, it's got to be done at home! There is a great need for the climate change strategy to record adaptation and reduction tasks, but I do not know how much longer we have to wait for this.
u2017-11-27-84	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply 106 yes, 26 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. What tools do we use to help women's position in the labour market? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-11-27-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, For us in Fidesz-KDNP, the child is the first, and we are constantly working to have as many children as possible in Hungary. This requires supporting women in enabling them to return to work as easily as possible after having children. For this reason, 67 Women's Information and Services Centres - the Women's Central Point - are established across the country to facilitate women's job market placement. These centers, which are created as a result of the application "Women in the family and at work" at local level, provide assistance to women in flexible employment, coordination of work and private life, and return to work after childbirth by local means. In the centres, interested people will be able to find out about labour market opportunities, contact local employers, and employers will also be able to find out about labour resources. The centres will support progress at work, self-employment, training for career planning or change, and coordination of work and private life, for example, through the organisation of child care or supplementary granny service. Particular emphasis will also be placed on less known forms of flexible employment, such as teleworking and part-time work, including incorporation, temporary work or occasional work. This is just one of the many help we have in supporting women's return to the labour market after having children. We must not forget that this is also served, for example, by the job protection action plan, the development of the nursery system and the promotion of part-time employment. This is also the reason why women's labour market situation has improved significantly since 2010. [[15.30]] Their employment rate rose from 50.4 per cent seven years ago to 61 per cent in 2016 and female unemployment fell from 10.7 per cent to 4.8 per cent. Dear Secretary of State, I'm asking you what tools we use to help women in the labour market. How many women can the centers that are being created help them to find the work that is best suited to them? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-27-86	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-27-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Here in Parliament, Parliament has adopted a number of legislative proposals aimed at improving the situation of women, whether in the labour market or in the care of the child, with the results, but we can remember the low point that we had to start in 2010. Let us not forget that before the Socialists took away regular child protection support, they took the tax relief of families with one and two children, reduced the tax relief of three and more children by 60 percent, reduced the duration of the child by one year, from three to two years, and it would be possible to list for a long time the decisions that the Socialists put Hungarian families in a difficult position. On the other hand, following the work of the Fidesz-KDNP - as you have indicated, honourable Member - the Hungarian employment rate for women, the employment rate for women is much higher than ever after the regime change, the employment rate for women in Hungary has reached a record and is only a few tenths away from the employment rate of the European Union. As you quoted, it was only 50.2 percent in 2010, so there was hardly more than 50 percent of women, and now 61 percent, even 61.1 percent, and 0.5 percent of the EU average. When we look at the proportion of women, women, and mothers who raise their children under the age of three and who can find work, their share shows a 15 - percent increase. If you look at the absolute number of these, you can see that in 2010 27 600 mothers were able to work alongside having children, now this has risen to 31 600. And if we look at the supplement, the opposite, unemployment figures, then we can say that the unemployment rate of women in Hungary has halved, halved, fell from 208 thousand to 106 thousand, so it has decreased by more than 100 thousand, and women's unemployment has been reduced by half. Let us compare this with the EU average. In the European Union, the unemployment rate for women was 7.7% in September; in Hungary it was much less than that, 4.6; in the EU it was 7.7, we were 4.6 and nearly 3 percent better than in the EU. And it is also important that the pay gap between women and men has also decreased, to the greatest extent after Lithuania, so the second has fallen to the greatest extent within the EU countries, and we can talk about a reduction in the pay gap of 4.4 per cent, which is all trying to overcome the disadvantage of women. What were the means to achieve this? The most effective is the family tax relief, the family-type tax system, which is available and benefits about 95 percent of families, and this extension to contributions was a very big step forward for families with lower incomes. Last year, 69 thousand parents were able to live with the ged extra, all of which helped to develop the positive figures quoted by the Congresswoman. 42,000 parents were able to work after the age of one year, and 26,000 children received care, all of which are the various measures of the ged extra. And nearly a thousand people could use their students' children, in Hungarian: their university years counted as working hours. We have created new kindergarten forms for the day care of children: the minib, the family nursery, the nursery at work, which are flexible and adaptable to the needs of families; families do not have to adapt to the legislation, but the legislation is adapted to the Hungarian families. As you started, the child is our first. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That is why we are also trying to measure subsidies for children and families. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-27-88	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-11-27-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Mr President, Thank you very much for your reply. In order to increase children's desire in Hungary, we need to give all the help we can to families, fathers and mothers who have children. For this purpose, Hungary will now spend almost 5 percent of its total national product on family support, and in the following year it will reach 5 percent. There are very few examples of this, and there are no examples in the world, and about half of the most developed European countries also use it for family support. All the tools the Secretary of State has said serve to ensure that mothers in Hungary can return to the world of work at that time and at the same time, not sooner, but at the same time as they decide. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] when the family requests this on the basis of a joint meeting. I respectfully thank you for your answer and accept it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-27-90	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development. Or will they finally be able to ensure an acceptable level of waste disposal? It's an address. Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor.
u2017-11-27-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In my constituency, Tolna County, people are forced to face the total failure of the centralised waste management system created by you from week to week. In Szekszárd and its surroundings, waste supplies have been stalled for weeks, and in fact they have stopped, and in the absence of resources and resources, the municipalities are forced to stand by and watch. Before the Secretary of State denies the gravity of the situation, I quote literally from the communication on the local service provider's web site: . We will do everything in our power to replace our missed transport tasks and to restore the service standards that we have so far, as usual and rightly expected. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We have warned you on numerous occasions that the destruction that has been done in waste management can have disastrous consequences. Not only are we opposition politicians, but also the leaders of the municipal authorities are desperate to send a message on countless occasions. All the actors involved saw it, but for some reason the government does not want to notice that nationalization is driving this public service into chaos, I add: Unfortunately, what we talked about happened: it was meant to join forces with the nationalised system, NHKV Zrt. under your professional direction. it has failed completely, it has proved inadequate even to collect fees, not to mention other organizational tasks. They are late and billing, which on the one hand causes a great deal of annoyance to citizens who often receive several quarterly consolidated accounts, and on the other hand undermines the financing of the whole system of waste management. There is not enough money to refuel and service garbage trucks, and they cannot pay in time to the companies that actually provide public services, which are now living up to their reserves, often working on loans. You have set up an inefficient, money-sucking giga organisation such as the KLIK hated by teachers and parents in education or the OKF for firefighters and chimney sweeps. I ask the Secretary of State when they will put an end to these unblessed conditions. When do you realize that the nationalization and the giga organization you've brought to life have failed? Are you willing to correct your wrong action, to eliminate NHKV Zrt., which has been inoperative for two years, and to reorganize the waste management system? When can the order of garbage shipments finally be restored in Tolna County and throughout the country? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-11-27-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Zsolt Szabó responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-27-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Congressman, Thank you very much for bringing this up here in the Hungarian Parliament. I think of a story about this, and I would like to remind you with great respect. Not so long ago, in 2010, some data appeared on the billboards of a rural socialist candidate for mayor, trying to mislead his constituents. The subject was the fee for garbage shipments, the city's debt, and the mayor said that these were false claims on this poster, and the candidate himself was obliged to acknowledge that those numbers were not real. [[15.40]] Perhaps the congressman remembers this, because his name was Tamás Harangozó, who then entered this election as a candidate. And let me tell you a few facts about waste management, waste disposal. The aim of the transformation of the public service system is to create a high-quality service that is sustainable and sustainable in the long term. Let us not forget that the 2020 targets in the European Union will be much stricter by 2025 and 2030. With the current system that we had before, we couldn't have met that. Our aim is to preserve the result of the reduction of costs and not burden the population with additional expenditure, and to maintain these new regulations, and to reduce to a large extent the amount of waste to be disposed of in such a way that the economic benefits of waste management can also be exploited. Central coordination will enable NHKV itself to organise this process, whether in terms of development or operation, with an efficient task. However, the operation will continue to be carried out by local public service providers. We are continuing to provide the financing opportunities that have been expected so far and we are trying to maintain waste management in such a way that the single system complies with the new standards. The background of the text published on that website has been investigated by NHKV; the public service provider does not have any outstanding claim on NHKV. Service fee determination is ongoing, but the public service provider has not indicated any further problems in this respect. In line with the above, the NHKV will continue to do its utmost to improve the quality of public services in your area, while keeping the public's interests in mind. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-27-94	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-11-27-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Shooting dog doesn't care about your personality and misbehaviour. At least not those people whose houses he's standing in front of for days and weeks. Do you even understand what you're talking about when you're babbling? [[Moray from the benches of the governing parties, interrogations from the same place:]] It's not that...
u2017-11-27-96	Congressman, please choose your words.
u2017-11-27-97	That's it, Mr. President. That's it! Once again, you're standing outside people's houses for weeks, days. [[It's constant, it's loud. The president's ringing the bell.]] It's all because you created this organization that doesn't give money to companies to do the job. The Szekszárd area service provider can't deliver his garbage trucks - while you smile - because they bleed them out and destroy these companies. And at the end of the day, it will be paid by citizens to whom you kindly paid weekly or multi-monthly or several quarterly bills at the end of the summer, and you almost had a heart attack because you couldn't afford it. [[Constant interruptions.]] There's nothing to smile about, Mr. Secretary. And your answer is unacceptable, as is the situation and your answer.
u2017-11-27-98	Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 100 votes in favour, 26 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Egyed, a representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. When the action is expected to be meaningful in the field of animal protection, or instead of misrepresentation, let the action speak now! It's an address. It is for Congressman Zsolt Egyed.
u2017-11-27-99	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, domestic media has become increasingly louder and increasingly attention is paid to the shortcomings of animal protection, which is commendable, but few. In recent times, there have been cases where animals are brutally tortured and abused, especially man's best friend, the dog. I don't think I have to introduce the Detek case to anyone where the deputy mayor's son and his friend used a baseball bat to destroy a dog that was videotaped. Both boys were suspended for a year, so they didn't have to go to jail. The other brutal case I've been informed of was in the park of the Miskolc Kilian residence, where it's said that the exposed poisons are taking the four-legged victims. After all, the Fidesz municipal representative of the area indicated that because of the proliferation of rats in the area, the owner of the town carried out rodent control in the park and supposedly planted the poisons at the foot of the dense Tujas. However, no information was given to the population living there, although children play alongside animals in the park. The point placed on the "i" was the sad case of Philip's dog. They held them in terrible circumstances, even animal rescuers were shocked by the sight of them on the spot. The dog was tied to a short chain in an iron barrel, his head disfigured to the point of unrecognizable by a tight cord wrapped around his neck. Despite this, the court, for the purpose of conducting a full procedure of proof, found it justified to appoint an expert, so the hearing will continue on 29 November, and we look forward to an effective judgment with curiosity and confidence. This is all extremely outrageous, and it confirms in my work that even more stringent punishment must be imposed on animal torturers, which must be strictly observed and enforced. It is true that so far, you have not achieved much, since you stand with the animal torturers at their full breast width until there is a positive change, they refuse to follow our remedial proposals. Every year, the government doesn't do anything about animal protection. Sight measures are taking place, and I get meaningless answers, and believe me, this is not just the Jobbik's position, but also the people who save lives every day, not regretting time, money, and energy that they invest in saving the animals in distress. Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to ask you what the government has done to curb animal cruelty. When's Btk due? a modification of the part of it relating to the tightening up of animal torture? When will they acknowledge and properly assist the work of animal protection workers? And when will the resources be created to allow these people who save animal lives to do their job under normal conditions? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-27-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Parliamentary Secretary Róbert Zsigó responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-27-101	Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Contrary to what you have said, the government pays particular attention to the area of animal protection. This is demonstrated by the measures I have made known to you on several occasions. As a reminder, allow me to briefly recall the main measures we have taken in recent years. In recent years, we have launched a number of approach-forming programmes to promote responsible animal farming, including emphasising the importance of adoption and neutering. In addition, concrete substantive steps have been taken and will continue to be taken to protect animals by publishing information publications on the importance of animal protection and keeping animals, as well as by supporting the spaying programme for dogs at shelter. In addition, it is worth mentioning once again that we are also helping to protect animals by providing financial resources. In recent years, we have delivered nearly HUF 3 billion through various applications to nature and animal protection organisations, and the amount of animal welfare support was HUF 29.7 billion only last year. In addition, from next year, we will increase the budget for animal protection support to more than HUF 50 million, which can be used for animal welfare purposes at 100%, namely for the modernisation of animal shelters and health facilities, for the neutering of dogs in shelters and for the shaping of attitudes. Among the major legislative amendments, I would like to highlight the introduction of mandatory tweezers for dogs, which, as is well known to the Member, has resulted in a significant reduction in the number of stray dogs, but also in a joyful increase in the proportion of dogs to be brought to the new owner. Dear House, The Ministry of Agriculture appreciates the work of civil society in the field of animal protection. In addition to supporting their sacrifices, we ask for and take into account their views on legislative changes in this area, as well as on how to spend the resources available to support animal protection. [[15.50]] We are open to the proposals of all, indeed, organisations working on the protection of animals, but we are only dealing effectively with organisations that regard animal protection as a source of money, as the Nebih did in the eradication of the blasphemous condition of the shelter in Sárospatak. Allow me, Congressman, to draw your attention to the fact that the abuse of animals cannot be curbed solely by sound legislative modification proposals, by folding the need for the Btk. tightening. I think it is important to point out that official statistics show that one of the most rigorous judicial practices in Europe is already being developed in Hungary. I am pleased that animal protection is increasingly at the centre of public interest and that more and more people are in favour of this noble cause. This also proves that the government's work in the field of attitude-forming, support for civilians and consistent application of law will result in results. Accordingly, we will continue the work we are doing to reduce animal cruelty and strengthen animal protection. Honourable Congressman, We all know that Jobbik is willing to do anything for money and power. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] But please don't make the area of animal protection the scene of party political battles. Thank you for your attention, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-27-102	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-11-27-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Of course, I cannot accept this answer because it has not answered. Secretary of State, you may have launched 3 billion forints somewhere, but unfortunately it has not arrived at the animal rights office, as there are so many other things in this country, it has disappeared somewhere. The other thing is: please do not refer to the fact that you are doing everything you can to protect animals, because this morning, in the Committee on Justice, my proposals amending Btk. were voted out by your fellow factions, because they did not consider it worthwhile for the animal torturers to receive their appropriate punishment. From now on, I believe, Mr. Secretary of State, that you are the masters of misconception, doing so in animal protection, as in all other areas of life. And now, to give you an eloquent example: in fact, you do nothing from a real problem, which is a real problem, but to scare the population of Hungary with an old man. That's what you do instead of government. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] This is your policy...
u2017-11-27-104	Congressman, I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-11-27-105	...that's all. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-27-106	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes to 31, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Ikotity István, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interview to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:. Where is the implementation of the Drinking Water Quality Improvement Programme with the involvement of EU resources; as it can be explained that there is still a lack of closure and even an increasing number of complaints from the general public and the need for resources to provide the right service? It's an address. In reply to the interpellation, the Prime Minister appointed Mr Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister Zsolt Szabó, State Secretary, he responds to the interpellation. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-11-27-107	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The right to drinking water is linked to the right to life and human dignity. In 2010, on World Water Day, the European Union confirmed that it is the duty of all States to ensure access to safe drinking water, which should be available and be physically accessible, affordable and acceptable. Hungary has been leading for many decades in this area, and the right of citizens to do so is recognised by the Fundamental Law, but it is as though in recent years there have been uncertainties and new problems in the supply of drinking water, despite the sound, although the implementation of programmes is constantly delayed and the involvement of significant EU resources. Hungary has previously launched a national water quality improvement programme under Directive 98/83/EC on the quality of water intended for human consumption. Since then, many years have passed, deadlines have expired. Fidesz has been responsible for progress in the third cycle, but the goal originally set has not been achieved, the implementation is bleeding from a number of wounds, while the infrastructure's urgent reconstruction task should be continued. Even where it is difficult to finish the multibillion-dollar upgrades, everything is not always going perfectly, there are problems around the new water quality from a technological or biological point of view - Szeged, Hortobágy, Mako, Szentes or even Baja and its surroundings. According to the NFM, a total of 46 cases of irregularities have been identified in 32 national projects in relation to projects to improve the quality of drinking water. Local government and water utility professionals complain about the non-conformity of implementation, tenders, applied technologies, companies selected in public procurement and technical takeover and control. And the public is concerned that by the end of the development, they did not want colorful, smelly, confusing, unenjoyable water, but they got it, and in many places they have to settle for sloppy, sloppy water instead of the right service. My question is: how is the implementation and control of EU-funded investment in quality of drinking water, and the accountability of those who have made mistakes? Who and how will cover the necessary correction and additional development costs? Have the responsibility of any contractor been established? What is the consequence of the irregularities? The EU has made it a condition for supporting the improvement of the quality of drinking water to cover the necessary replacements and to maintain the system over the 30-year lifetime of the built-up systems. However, this possibility is threatened by the current regulation of charging and by the frequent constraints of operators. What about this assignment? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply.
u2017-11-27-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, By responding to the interpellation, Prime Minister Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister Zsolt Szabó, State Secretary, he responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-27-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The improvement of drinking water quality is a national matter and the national government is therefore committed to its implementation and to supporting investment. Our aim is to ensure that all settlements in Hungary have good quality drinking water. The question is also so sensitive that I would like to ask for caution because whatever the consultants say is not complete information that we have just heard on your question, and, if you will allow me, I would like to set out some professional goals and facts for you. In the 2014-2020 period, the so-called "ECHOP" energy efficiency operational programme, some HUF 264 billion is available. However, some 20 percent of this can only be spent on reconstruction based on the requirements of the EU operational programme, while the rest can be used to acquire completely new assets. For the first time, there has been a call for proposals, where regional integrated drinking water systems would be set up for some HUF 30 billion, to check what has happened before, and there will be an on-the-spot monitoring plan to verify the current projects. Where the managing authority obtains information in relation to a project that clarification of the facts is necessary, it shall require an exceptional on-the-spot check and, if the audit involves a circumstance giving rise to further action, it shall initiate an irregularity procedure. However, with regard to the necessary corrections and additional improvements, it should be pointed out that, under the statutory obligation, the person responsible for the care must ensure that the water utility service is maintained and maintained by means of water utility development. In order to ensure the long-term sustainability of the water utility infrastructure, the government decided to take a strategic step and in 2018 it established a state reconstruction fund, which is clearly to be further developed for the future. [[16.00]] The Ministry of National Development does not have the task of examining the execution and the responsibility of the contractor. The beneficiary association shall be entitled to enforce warranty claims in all cases. In the case of disputes, they may act on the basis of the rules of civil law. The managing authority shall monitor the financial and professional progress of the programmes itself and shall do so ex post. In particular, it sends the results to the European Union in all cases and acts in accordance with EU standards. In all cases where an irregularity procedure is concluded by finding an irregularity, a financial correction shall be imposed against the beneficiary. Since the supporting organisation is in a relationship with it, regardless of whether the irregularity may be committed by another actor, such as the failure of the contractor or the engineer, it relates to the act and its failure, in any case we will cooperate with the water utility association itself, help to establish the responsibility of the beneficiary and help to recover the financial corrections. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-27-110	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-11-27-111	Dear Secretary of State, I indicated in my interpellation that 46 out of 32 projects had been identified as irregularities, and 19 cases, which were identified by the Ministry of National Development as a legal consequence of an irregularity, were subject to financial corrections in 30 cases. Mr Secretary, my questions include whether or not the contractor's responsibility will be established. Obviously, there is a responsibility to investigate, but since there are not individual cases, but rather generally, and it is very often discovered that there is an identity among the contractors, so I expected in his reply how the Ministry is looking at this. I think that if the Ministry knows what one hand is doing and knows what the other is doing, as a result of a coordinated work, the whole country would be better off checking these processes. I'm asking you to do this, and since you haven't answered that, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I can't accept your answer.
u2017-11-27-112	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 38 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, It's 16 hours and 3 minutes. We have reached the end of the interpellation negotiations, and we will continue our work by discussing immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Three hundred and fourteen is not enough? It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor.
u2017-11-27-113	Thank you, Mr. President. Prime Minister! Can violence and abuse be part of our daily lives? Can the individual, the community, the power turn a blind eye to violence and abuse? That's what you think. Domestic violence should remain in the family, inside the gate. You think that's right. Violence is about the daily application and enforcement of power. It means you're my property, I can do whatever I want with you. Hungary signed the European Council Convention, the Istanbul Convention, in March 2014. The introduction and ratification of the Hungarian legal order has not yet taken place. In recent years, we have heard several versions and dates of ratification of the Convention. You've been lying all along. Two weeks ago, all-knowing Szilárd Németh, Vice President of Fidesz, said that as long as there is a Fidesz majority parliament in Hungary, there is no chance that the treaty will pass through the House, they will never support a convention that attacks the traditional family model. We don't understand how the Istanbul convention comes with a traditional family model, unless it's in your mind that the money is calculated, the woman is beat up good. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] More than 40 percent of murders happen in families. 20 percent of women have been victims of sexual assault, and more than 20 percent of women have attempted rape. The victims of abuse against mothers are children growing up in the family. There are hundreds of thousands of abused children in Hungary today. More than 20 children are beaten to death each year by their parents, most of them by their fathers. Based on the data learned, 314 women lost their lives between 2014-16 and more than 50 children. What else has to happen, Prime Minister? Prime Minister! I want a clear answer. Are you on the side of victims or criminals? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-11-27-114	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2017-11-27-115	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to start by saying that the Hungarian Government strongly rejects all forms of violence against women and is committed to eliminating abuse. For this reason, in 2013, the Parliament significantly tightened the penalties for domestic violence and made the relationship violence a stand-alone reality. This means that in Hungary the law severely punishes all forms of violence against women. Much stricter than the eight years you were on the government. So I have to mention that you've been on the government for eight years, you haven't made the restrictions. We've done these things, and now you're attacking us. I don't think that's fair. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-27-116	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2017-11-27-117	Prime Minister, you didn't answer my question. One didn't cut down the number of victims. Prime Minister! Have you ever looked a woman in the eye whose husband beat her brains out? Have you ever looked into the eyes of a child your father beat to death? You know, Prime Minister, I've looked this man in the eye, and I've died a little bit every time. You know, Prime Minister, the male being who hurts the weaker, the woman or the child is not a man. You know what you can call it? A worm. And we're used to trampling the worm, whoever it is. And, Prime Minister, once again, are you on the side of the victims or the perpetrators? The number of dead children and women in Hungary has not been reduced by one! The law has changed in vain! We demand the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, and if you say, Prime Minister, that you do not, you are on the side of the perpetrators. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-27-118	Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2017-11-27-119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to remind my fellow Member that both Hungarian and European cultures are building on respect for women. I am pleased that you have brought this up because I would like to remind you that at the moment, illegal immigration is bringing millions of migrants to Europe, who do not respect women, and do not shy away from violence. So if you really are violence [[Noise, interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]] It is against and, like me, wants to side with the victims, so please help us to protect Hungary. Help the government to protect Hungary and Europe against migration; this is how we can do the most to prevent violence against women today. Thank you for your attention. [[A big round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-27-120	Dear Parliament, Gábor Vona, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Lameness or decency? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-27-121	Mr. Prime Minister, This may be the last time I'm allowed to ask you in this cycle in this form. So I have decided not to ask him any unpleasant questions about bank accounts, stromanes or stolen money, but I would just like to warn the Prime Minister of one duty, and that is something that is natural and normal in all European countries. This is that the current Prime Minister holds a debate with the candidate for Prime Minister of the most powerful party in the opposition before the elections. This is normal and natural in all European countries, and at present in Hungary, Prime Minister, it means that you and I must hold a debate before voters. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. A voice from the benches of Fidesz: What confidence! The president's ringing the bell.]] [[16.10]] If Prime Minister has been running from this debate for some time now because he fears that during this debate I would like to corner you with the unpleasant questions already mentioned, then I would like to reassure Prime Minister: Prime Minister, you are wrong, I do not wish to deal with these issues, I would like to talk only about the present and future of Hungary, to show who has the offer for the Hungarian people after 2018. Perhaps you remember, Prime Minister, that 15 years ago, you invited me into your personal civic circle. I spent a year there, and then I stepped out of this bourgeois circle, but there and then I met a man in you who didn't run away from the challenges and didn't run away from the debates. I now appeal to you with the hope that the Viktor Orbán that I met there may still be somewhere, very deep inside of you, and that is why I ask you to accept this challenge, because believe me, this debate is not in my interest, Prime Minister, nor in your interest, it is in the interests of Hungary. Hungarian people deserve to know the programme of the two-pronged parties and to know the offer of the two-pronged Prime Minister candidate for Hungarian voters before their decision in 2018. I am open to this debate, and with respect, Prime Minister, I ask you to be open to it. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-27-122	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2017-11-27-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member, we have debated here 26 times, and I see you are now applying for an additional examination. We'll consider it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-27-124	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2017-11-27-125	Well, I'm very sorry, Prime Minister, that you're still on the run. [[Defiance from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] As we are on the way to the end, let me also say that I am very sorry that in the past time you have answered my questions regularly with insult and mockery, believe me, Prime Minister, this is not worthy of a Prime Minister. What I can tell you, Prime Minister, is that if it's any consolation to you, you can't insult me. You can only give me one feeling, and that feeling is nothing more than a feeling of pity. I pity you, as you hold on to your power with your teeth and your nails, and I pity you for your lack of sport-like tools, and I pity you for the fact that a young, young, passionate Democrat has become a burned-out and despot of dignity, Prime Minister. That's why you're going to lose in 2018. And you know what's gonna hurt you the most? It is not that we take back the stolen property and give it to the people, it will also hurt; the most painful thing will be that what you have missed, even if you had the opportunity, we will do it: we will raise Hungary with a Hungarian heart, common sense and a pure heart, and you will see it through. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-27-126	Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2017-11-27-127	It's a good thing you're not insulting me because what would it be like to be insulted? [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But when I listen to you, I think most of all about Jimmy's famous saying, who said it's easy to rule, only to get a throne in all this trouble. I wish you every success in the fight on the opposition side. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-27-128	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél, Márta Demeter and Ákos Hadházy, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "Why is the government not disturbed by reality?" It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2017-11-27-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, I now appeal to you on behalf of the single - parent families. You know that every fifth Hungarian family is a single parent family, and you also know that more than half a million children grow up in single-parent families, and you also know that 350 thousand Hungarian families are in a situation, 95 percent of mothers who raise their children alone. I see that you, while talking about families, have not taken every opportunity to help these families at all, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is nothing to wait for. Because the risk of poverty in these families is exactly the same as in families with many children, in large families, and I think that no Hungarian prime minister can choose between family and family, that everyone should be helped. Here's the thing: these families currently receive 13 700 forints as family allowances. The May Other Politics suggested in the first step that the family allowance be increased by 45 percent to HUF 20,000 for these families, and I would also like to suggest to your attention that this would be about zero. There was a proposal that had already been made by KDNP - to put it this way on PC - and I suggested that children of single-parent families should move forward in the nursery line, and it makes sense why. The fact is that at the committee meeting, Péter Harrach said that it was not a bad idea, but he fears that families will divorce well on paper in order for the child to enter the nursery. Now, then, we have managed to convince Péter Harrach that Hungarian families are not so vicious, because KDNP has submitted this LMP proposal as its own, and now it is a bill. I am coming to you now because I may have the same effect on you as Peter Harrach, and he will raise you - or, as you would put it, you will raise that 13 700 forints to 20 thousand forints. I think that this could mean a lot to these families in the first step. Prime Minister, please take a clear position: do you support this increase or not?
u2017-11-27-130	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2017-11-27-131	As I understand it correctly, honourable Member, as leader of one of the opposition parties, you are asking us to increase the family allowance. That's what he said, isn't it? [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Yes.]] Yeah. The government follows the philosophy that it is willing to increase all forms of family support and significantly increase what is tied to work. We will continue on this path in the future. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-27-132	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Congresswoman, in return, you have the floor.
u2017-11-27-133	Then I'll take that as a no, but then I'll try another way, because the thing is - I don't understand what you're laughing at - that these families aren't so funny, I don't want you to experience what these families are going through, and you know I'm with people who have no reason to laugh in this country. The alimony, Prime Minister. In many cases, maintenance fees do not arrive in time, or when they arrive, much smaller amounts will be received than they would in reality be for these mothers, in smaller cases for fathers. The fact is that in our proposal, real alimony will be set with the help of the NAV, and if the alimony is delayed, the so-called advance alimony, so that when the state helps these families, it will be the end of the child's tuition obligation and the current maximum of HUF 14 250 will be increased to HUF 60,000. Mr. Prime Minister, Alimony is clearly linked to work, do you or do you not support making the fate of these families easier by creating such a progressive change in the system of alimony, that is to say, helping most of these mothers to get real money to help raise their children?
u2017-11-27-134	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2017-11-27-135	Yes, Congresswoman, the Government is in favour of any proposal on the simplification, fair and fair conversion of alimony. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-27-136	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gyula Budai, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Attorney General an immediate question:, Can we expect an extension of the investigation in the biggest corruption scandal in Hungary's history? It's an address. Congressman Gyula Budai has the floor.
u2017-11-27-137	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Dear House, This week, the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control will discuss the European Anti-Fraud Office's report on OLAF's series of fraud related to metro 4. According to the OLAF report, one third of the 4th metro investment, HUF 166 billion, was stolen and cheated. The contracts contested by OLAF were concluded in the period 2002-2010. OLAF wasn't the only one dealing with subway 4. According to the UK Office against Major Fraud, the Alstom leaders paid EUR 2.7 million in bribes to Hungarian left-wing politicians in connection with the metro investment. With this money, the company of Péter Medgyessy's former prime minister's wife received 600 thousand euros in two instalments, only 180 million forints. The government has filed a complaint concerning the purchase of subway fittings, and the Central Detective Attorney General's Office is investigating this case, which is due to be investigated on 3 December 2017, while the National Bureau of Investigation is investigating the construction of tunnels and stations. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, What are the results that the Attorney General can provide us with? What foreign authorities have cooperated in the investigation and are the deadlines for the investigation expected to be extended? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-27-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Attorney General Péter Polt. [[16.20]]
u2017-11-27-139	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, As Mr President pointed out in his question, there are currently two investigations into this investment. One of the investigations is carried out by the Central Investigator's Attorney General, the subject of which is the contract or group of contracts concluded with Alstom in connection with the acquisition of vehicles. This investigation started in January 2011, but it has not made progress for a very long time in the absence of any meaningful data. The investigation gained a new impetus in the summer of 2016, when we contacted the British Anti-Fraud Office, and as a result of this relationship, we obtained new data that allowed us to involve suspects in criminal proceedings. There are currently three suspects in this case, and there will be further suspicions. There's an international thread in this case. We are in constant contact with the British, but also with other foreign authorities. We're hoping to get from the active briber to the passive bribers. You said correctly, Congressman, that the investigation deadline is until 3 December, but this will be extended. The second was an investigation into the OLAF report on the 4th metro project. This investigation is being conducted by the National Bureau of Investigation, Department of Corruption and Economic Crime. It's this year's assignment. On the basis of the new data contained in the OLAF report, the investigation was initiated. He's a top priority. He's under increased prosecutor's supervision. At present, hearings, procurement of documents and legal aid are underway. The deadline for this will be 23 January 2018, and will certainly be extended. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-27-140	Thank you very much, Mr. Attorney General. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2017-11-27-141	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Metro 4 investment is the biggest corruption scandal of all time, clearly linked to the left. The investigations conducted by the various committees clearly state that the responsibility lies with the Medgyessy-Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments and with the MSZP-SZDSZ capital leadership managed by Gábor Demszky. This case has penetrated the left so deeply and to such an extent that the involvement of former prime ministers and Gábor Demszky is clear. We need to find out where the billions have gone, Mr. Attorney General. The Hungarian public rightly claims this information, which information can be shared and who is responsible for Hungary's biggest corruption scandal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-27-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr. Attorney General is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Mr. Attorney General.
u2017-11-27-143	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The fact is, we are mobilizing a great deal of force in this matter, both of which are matters. I can safely say that there's been a crime, serious crimes. Finding out personal responsibility is also our goal. We will do everything we can to achieve this, and I very much hope that we will succeed. When this case is in such a state, we will also inform the public about the person. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-27-144	Thank you, Mr. Attorney General, for your answer. Dear Parliament, Attila Mesterházy, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs an immediate question. It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-11-27-145	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, On 24 February 2009, Fidesz's representative held the following press conference: Fidesz calls on the government to suspend the appointments of ambassadors until the next elections, said Zsolt Németh, Head of the Foreign Affairs Cabinet of the opposition party at his press conference on Tuesday. According to Zsolt Németh, this is a diplomatic and political occupation over Hungarian foreign representations. He said that according to Fidesz, this is inappropriate, inappropriate, and contrary to Hungarian and international custom, Zsolt Németh stated that in 2002 the Foreign Minister of the Fidesz Government, János Martonyi, suspended the appointment of ambassadors before the elections. He stressed that according to Fidesz there is a diplomatic solution for these posts, one of the most obvious options is the extension of the mandate of current ambassadors or the mandate of executives. According to Zsolt Németh, the latter would also lead to serious financial savings. That's why I'm asking Minister what's the hurry. How has Fidesz changed since then, since in the last two and a half months, you have nominated more than twenty ambassadors to be heard on the Committee on Foreign Affairs. So why did Fidesz change his mind? At the time of the former government, this was another diplomatic and political occupation, and now it has become a daily practice for the Minister, the Government and the Prime Minister. I ask you, Minister, where is this haste, what is it you're up to, why are you bringing the ambassadors here so quickly to the Foreign Affairs Committee? Thank you very much.
u2017-11-27-146	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Peter Szijjártó. Mr. Secretary, please.
u2017-11-27-147	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Hungary has a new Foreign Affairs Act, in which we proposed that the period of the Ambassador term be five years. You tabled an amendment to make this four years, and we supported it, and now the four years will expire for a number of ambassadors. Therefore, in order not to remain masters, in Hungarian: without ambassadors the embassies, of course I have to appoint ambassadors, given the fact that embassies are run by ambassadors. Why the candidates for ambassadors will be heard now, who, by the way, will take over the leadership of embassies in their new positions sometime in the summer and later in the autumn, and the reason for this is simple: the meetings of the Committee on Foreign Affairs will take place in the first half of next year, if we understand correctly, only in limited numbers, and since the support of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is a legal prerequisite for the new ambassadors, I have put forward my proposals, which, by the way, are clear or unanimous in the votes of opposition representatives. I would also like to reassure the Member that the candidates for ambassadors who have been supported by you in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, all prepared diplomats, have proved their worth over the past few years, have demonstrated that they understand the words of the new times, have bravely stood up for the interests of Hungary. I understand that in many cases it was a novelty that Hungary's foreign policy did not go down with its head and apologize when Hungary was attacked, but we have always stood up for Hungary, the Hungarian people and our own right. This is what will be expected of these people in their positions as ambassadors. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-27-148	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2017-11-27-149	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Officials also run the embassy, for example, in Hungary the U.S. embassy is managed by an executive, so that doesn't justify anything; just as it doesn't justify the great haste you referred to. I could also read from this communication that according to Zsolt Németh, these ambassadors will be able to occupy their station at the end of the summer or in September. In English, the current situation is no different from the situation at the time, unless it is apparent that he is sending out foreign Deputy State Secretarys who were responsible for the western or eastern opening. These foreign policy objectives appear to have failed, failed, and these Deputy State Secretarys are likely to have to be removed from these positions. Or the other option, which is a much more exciting rumor, and the fact that you seem to be being replaced soon if you happen to win the election. This is interesting because it also shows that you are supposed to be seated in another ministerial seat, János Lázár, who will be dismissed by the Prime Minister. Otherwise, there won't be a reason for this, because you won't win the next election.
u2017-11-27-150	Congressman, your time frame is over.
u2017-11-27-151	But if that happens, there's a reason why you're running your men into positions. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-27-152	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. Of course, I count the timeframe in the answer in the same way. You have the floor, Minister.
u2017-11-27-153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The fact is that only part of the questions asked fall into my decision-making competence, but in this connection let me tell you that 16 prime ministers are present in Budapest today in the spirit of the Prime Minister's meeting with the East of China and Central Europe. In the framework of the Eastern Opening Strategy, we increased our exports by 17 percent in the first eight months of this year with a total of EUR 1.4 billion. In the first eight months of this year, our exports to the countries of southern opening increased by 29 percent by EUR 360 million. So, the thing is, when we combined the foreign economy with foreign policy, there were a number of benefits. [[16.30]] For example, by saving time instead of meaningless and infertile disputes, because the numbers speak. And if our exports are increasing, if the investments are increasing, then probably those who are dealing with this issue are doing their job right. And the Secretary of State for Southern Opening and Eastern Opening was probably doing the right thing. If it weren't, the numbers wouldn't show that. So once again, allow me to thank you for giving your support to the two former undersecretaries of state to be successful ambassadors in the coming period. Thank you very much for bringing this up. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-27-154	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr. Dániel Z., representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long?" It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-27-155	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to remind Prime Minister that Jobbik has been bringing the voice of those who have suffered foreign exchange credit into the House since 2010 with unbroken enthusiasm. After a great deal of misconception and political outspokenness, Prime Minister, I would like to reach a kind of professional consensus with you on the fact that there are 140,000 people in Hungary who have not been able to help in any way in recent years. Those who are already so behind in a way that puts them at a level that could lead to their eviction, and although the eviction moratorium seems to shift the problem... Prime Minister, I can see you nodding. Just last night, I exchanged messages with a family that had a trial today, a few minutes before midnight. Today's trial has decided their lives to be expelled from their own property or not. For them, a few months of air is very important, but it is not a final solution. So, Prime Minister, there are 140,000 people in Hungary who have not been helped by the exchange rate barrier, which only shifts the implementation of the problem; who has not been helped by the end-payment, since at a lucky rate of HUF 180, the National Asset Manager who still needs permission from the bank, the guilty bank, to sign with the injured family, and if the bank makes a negative decision, there is no way to appeal to the extent necessary. So what we see is that for more than 140,000 people, you have unfortunately been unable to achieve any positive movement. You have to admit that there are a few months before the elections, but then we can't put Hungary, the national economy or the families concerned on the streets. I therefore ask that we find a common solution on this issue in a way that is above the parties; and I am clearly interested in your specific position: what do you say to this 140,000 family? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-27-156	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2017-11-27-157	I have summarized, my fellow Member, what has happened in this case: final repayment, exchange rate barrier, accounting of banks, forinting, ban on auction below prices and extending the ban on eviction, i.e. the extension of the moratorium. In my view, in recent years, the Hungarian Parliament has worked well, and we have created very important laws. I would like to draw attention to the fact that once we have a law on the prohibition of auction at a price, no family can be turned out of its housing assets today. After extending the ban on eviction, no one is now threatened by any kind of eviction, and in the years left behind, we have always been able to prevent mass eviction in Hungary. Hungary is not a country of evicted people. We have always cooperated with the municipalities, and all families that had to leave their homes have found solutions through the municipalities. And where the family helped, the families took over this burden. So I must say to you that Hungary is a country in the European culture circle that is least typical of being able to get people out of their homes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-27-158	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give you the floor in return. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-27-159	Mr. Prime Minister, I'd like to tell you that the auctions, some takeovers, so the procedures leading to the eviction are ongoing at the moment. Now, when we talk about this here in Parliament, it's also happening on this day. And I have to say to you, in a context where you claim 33 million forints out of 5 million loans on the victim, you cannot tell me and the voters behind us that this problem has been settled, and the banks have been accounted for, because we should also explain why some lucky people have been able to repay at a rate of 180 forints, why the unfortunate ones have been released from the market rate of 256 forints. But in the end, I have to tell you, you didn't say anything to these 140,000 people, except that they're gonna be robbed out of their homes by quota and step. And I want a solution for them. That it's a well-thought-out rental program, that it's an extension of the construction so far, it doesn't really matter. I ask the Prime Minister to send one of his ministers, secretary of state, expert to the foreign exchange loan round table convened by Jobbik [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] 'Cause in addition to all the party's guests, there's civilians. [[The president's ringing again.]] And we invite everyone who is interested in this matter.
u2017-11-27-160	Congressman!
u2017-11-27-161	We expect your presence, too, because so far [[The president's ringing again.]] They didn't even pay their respects once. I'm asking you to change that. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-27-162	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2017-11-27-163	Ladies and gentlemen, We believe in every sensible conversation. For the sake of completeness, let me just say this, not to block the road before possible cooperation, but the reality is that the ban on foreign exchange loans and the limitation of unilateral interest increases by banks were not voted by your party president. Neither the party president nor the Jobbik fraction voted for the introduction of the exchange barrier. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-27-164	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gergely Gaal, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question when will the Gyurcsány family clarify itself in the Czeglédy case? It's an address. Minister Pál Völner has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he is asking the Minister himself for an answer.
u2017-11-27-165	I'll take it.
u2017-11-27-166	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-27-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The criminal organization operated by Csaba Czeglédy, a fallen politician on the left, caused billions of HUF to the budget and cheated hundreds of students, who still wait for their wages for their work. The favorite house lawyer on the left could continue to operate the criminal organization he built after last year, thanks to the amendment of the law supported by Fidesz-KDNP, both adult labour agencies and school associations were included in the round of reverse VAT. The Left attacked this amendment in Brussels, which is why the fallen Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány and his wife Klára Dobrev were needed. Based on the documents published, Altus Zrt. He loaned Csaba Czeglédy a short-term loan of HUF 60-90 million three times, as he reported at the hearing of Klára Dobrev as a witness. Klára Dobrev also said at the press conference after her hearing that someone else had been lent to because she thought it was the duty of the rich to give if they came to them for help. In fact, the Gyurcsány family did not help those in need, but through their company participated in financing the further operation of a criminal organization. Dear Secretary of State, The representatives of the Democratic Coalition did not vote in favour of the parliamentary resolution which condemned the series of frauds and called for compensation for those in need. There is a legitimate question: does the Gyurcsány family consider the left-wing cheater's lawyer to be in need, but not the students and workers he deceived? On the basis of the above, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State when the Gyurcsány family will clarify itself in the Czeglédy case. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-27-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go.
u2017-11-27-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At present, Csaba Czeglédy and his associates are being prosecuted for criminal activities, crimes of fiscal fraud, particularly high financial disadvantage, and other crimes. According to the suspicion, the criminal association under the direction of DK and MSZP's domestic lawyer established a network between 2011 and 2016 that also dealt with student placements. According to press information, on 24 November, Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife, Klára Dobrev, who had to answer the authority's questions because he owned Altus Zrt. on several occasions, he gave Csaba Czeglédy more money, suspected of three billion dollars in budget fraud. [[16.40]] The loan contracts included elements such as interest on late payment, personal security [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: He oversees the NAV!]] and immediate incassor, which assumes commercial lending instead of a friendly loan. The question arises whether Ferenc Gyurcsány's company has the right to grant a financial loan. [[Dr. László Kács: He may belong to Quaestor. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: How do you know this information?]] If not, the suspicion of the crime is raised, i.e. the offence of unauthorized financial activity. Ferenc Gyurcsány, the fallen left-wing prime minister and his wife, Klára Dobrev, claimed that it was only a matter of friendly assistance in the Czeglédy case, yet the exact opposite of that is indicated by the terms laid down in the contract, including thousands of euros in excess of the central bank base rate. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: How do you know about this? How did this end up in the court's wallet? How?]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. My comment on the oil issue cannot be meaningful, said Klára Dobrev in the report published on his social media page. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: How do you find out?]] in which it turns out to be talking about a political matter rather than giving a meaningful answer and thus clearing itself of responsibility. He basically didn't give the answer as to why he gave money to his favorite home lawyer, Czeglédy Csaba. [[Dr. László Kács: Let's vote on the verdict. A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-27-170	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. You have a rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-27-171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I see that the Socialist Group is also shocked by the facts and amounts presented here by the Secretary of State. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Tell me what the Ministry has to do with this. Answer me that.]] It is well known that the Gyurcsány-Dobrev family is connected to the Communist dictatorship, whose crimes have not yet been fully revealed. From the period after the change of regime, the name Gyurcsány mostly reminds us of the obvious lies, the refusal of the broken national brothers and the economic destruction of the country. Ferenc Gyurcsány was once still a socialist head of government, and we are still paying the price. In connection with the Czeglédy scandal, it is clear that this clan can hold further surprises for the country. The question is only half poetic, how long will the skeletons left by the Gyurcsányes fall out of the closet? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Bravo!]]
u2017-11-27-172	Thank you, Congressman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-27-173	Dear House, Dear fellow Member, The government and Fidesz consider it most important that the victims of the case be compensated as soon as possible in view of their vulnerable situation. On 10 October, Fidesz-KDNP submitted a proposal for a parliamentary decision requesting the Hungarian Government to pay compensation based on fairness. On 14 November, the Parliament adopted the proposal for a resolution on the extraordinary settlement of damages for victims of the Czeglédy case, giving the opportunity to settle the victims as quickly as possible. However, this settlement of claims should not result in the payment of compensation being exempted from the damage suffered by the injured party. If it is found that MSZP and DK have been funded by Csaba Czeglédy's criminal organisation, the amount paid for the settlement of claims shall be deducted from the State aid of the parties concerned. Overall, it can be said that the entire Hungarian left has a serious ethical and political responsibility in the Czeglédy case. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Crying from the pro-government benches, among them: That's right!]]
u2017-11-27-174	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is the explanation? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]]
u2017-11-27-175	Thank you very much. If I had the opportunity to ask more questions, I would also ask you about the manipulation of the number of national consultation sheets sent back from you. However, I would now like to ask you about another manipulation, a far more important manipulation, which also requires human lives, and this is manipulation through hospital procurement. I'd like to continue this conversation the other day. Unfortunately, it has to be continued, because since then, four more cases have been cancelled by the arbitration committee in the public procurement of the State Healthcare Services Center. My first question is whether you are aware of these cases, are you aware that you are no longer required to repay 50 million forints as a penalty to this supply centre, but 100 million forints. The second question is about the method. The new method was to combine completely different things in public procurement. What I would like to ask you is why you believe that a public procurement was required, where you could only bid for hospital beds, bed linens, blankets, sheets and defibrillators and infusion pumps at the same time. Therefore, it could not be separately, but had to apply for these instruments at the same time. I could compare this to a question you do not fully understand, as if public procurement had been issued for means of transport, but it could only have been for electric locomotives, bicycles, cars, trucks and airplanes at the same time. What's in it, the question is, what do you think explained it to me? I think it's very difficult to explain with common sense, I hope you'll be reasonable about it. After all, the only thing that we can do is bring into the picture a so-called packaging company that buys the assets and adds its margin to it, so it's obviously more expensive for the state to buy. So my question is why. The other question is, where is the investigation you filed against me the other day? Thank you very much.
u2017-11-27-176	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2017-11-27-177	First of all, I would like to thank the nearly two million people who took the time to fill out the national consultation questionnaire. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] And who I think you've hurt unfairly in the last few days. As far as the specific question is concerned, my answer is, I have no idea. This is why there is a public procurement arbitration committee in the government system, which is what it is supposed to do, to examine individual procurements and, if for some reason it sees them as irregular, to repeal those decisions. I can only tell you that an organisation supervised by the public procurement system in Hungary and equipped with such licenses is doing its job. There are procurements that are approved and there are others that are not approved. And that's okay. You can be safe from public money, that's what happens. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-27-178	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2017-11-27-179	On the one hand, he didn't answer how the investigation was going to stand against me. That's what I was interested in. [[Noise from the benches of the governing parties.]] On the other hand, his answer is very depressing. It's a terrible problem if you don't know anything about this. Because in this case, in such corruption cases, people could have died. A public procurement was announced, they wanted to buy defibrillators, these defibrillators are not here now, because this public procurement had to be destroyed. You're going to attack him with a very expensive law firm, and you're going to have fun in that courthouse for a few months or years, and these defibrillators are missing. If so, I'll tell you, I or you can get sick anytime, you or I could miss them. So I'd really like you to look into it, especially because one of these public procurements said that everything was okay, and the other minister said that he would cut off the hand of someone who would write out such public procurements. So I'm asking you to look into this, too. Besides, I'd love to come with you and see how these sheets are processed if you don't believe me. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-27-180	Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2017-11-27-181	I have just looked into it and asked the Secretary of State whether it is possible in Hungary that, due to the destruction of a public procurement, there are no usable resuscitation devices anywhere. The answer is that such a situation cannot happen. Public procurement will be issued in due time to replace the old ones when the new ones arrive. So we always work ahead of them, as old appliances would otherwise lose their viability. I would like to reassure everyone: no public procurement debate in Hungary can lead to lifesaving interventions by our dedicated doctors and specialists. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. István Józsa: That's for sure!]]
u2017-11-27-182	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Németh, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question:. Eastern partnership or isolation? It's an address. Mr Zsolt Németh, Mr President, has the floor.
u2017-11-27-183	Dear House, Dear Minister, On 5 September, the Ukrainian legislation adopted this educational law, which practically opens up the possibility of ukrainizing the Hungarian education system from the top of the school. In October, the Hungarian Parliament formed a consensus between the parliamentary parties on how to defend Hungarian education in Transcarpathia. Both the European Union and the Council of Europe and bilateral relations have provided clear guidance to the government and a rather complex diplomatic action has begun. [[16.50]] The Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs attended the Eastern Partnership Summit last weekend. I think we have a very important success here, namely that the Eastern Partnership Summit, at the level of prime ministers and heads of state, has accepted that minority rights cannot be taken away from the national minorities of Ukraine, and even on the recommendation of the Venice Commission, the summit has clearly stated that it must be fully implemented by Ukraine. At the same time, Ukraine is at war with Russia, which does not make the situation easy, as Ukraine is exposed to an aggression that takes its victims every day. I would like to ask you, Minister, how we stand in this fight, what hopes we have for the future of Transcarpathian Hungarians. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-27-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Peter Szijjártó.
u2017-11-27-185	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for asking. First of all, I would like to tell you that Hungary has always been a strong and loud supporter of Ukraine's European integration efforts, and we are of course a strong supporter of Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty. This is why we experience everything that is currently happening in Ukraine with regard to the Education Act as an amazing backstabbing because in Ukraine, an educational law has been adopted that takes away the right of Hungarian young people over ten years of age to learn in their own language. I think it is a shame that such a decision is made in a country with European integration aspirations. Last Friday, as you said, at the Eastern Partnership Summit, however, the European Union and the Eastern partners, including Ukraine, have adopted a final document covering education as follows: In Hungarian: everything Ukraine has done in recent years is contrary to the decisions of the UN, the Council of Europe and, from now on, the European Union and the values represented by these organisations. Honourable Congressman, When I was in Ungvár and met representatives of Hungarian organizations there, they asked us to fight until this law was changed in Ukraine. It is our duty, Members of Parliament, members of the Government, to fight until this law is changed in Ukraine. We therefore continue to maintain our decision not to support Ukraine's international aspirations, Ukraine's proposals at any level, under any circumstances, in any international organisation. Thank you very much for your question and attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[In the notary seat, Dezső Believing is replaced by Loránt Hegedűs.]]
u2017-11-27-186	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will give the floor to Mr President, in return. Here you go.
u2017-11-27-187	Thank you, Minister, for this firm position. I think it is very important that Hungarian diplomacy is a strong representative of these national policy aspects. Indeed, this Eastern Partnership Summit was now also about the fact that, unfortunately, Ukraine has gained greater sympathy for many years, but the process has turned around, and it seems to be becoming more and more isolated and involved in discussions not only with Hungary but also with a number of its neighbours, not only with regard to the Education Act, but also with a number of other issues. I think the case doesn't necessarily look bad in this regard. At the same time, I think it is very important - especially given the fact that the Venice Commission's decision will be published on 9 December - that Hungary should continue its cooperation with those allies who are thinking in the same way, which has led us to achieve real results now. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-27-188	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rejoinder, Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2017-11-27-189	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, You're right. It's not a bilateral issue. Some people try to make it look that way. It is no coincidence that we, together with the Bulgarian, Romanian and Greek foreign ministers, have turned to international organisations on this issue. It is also clear that some countries that are no doubt bigger and stronger than us are trying to get Hungary to back off this position because of various geopolitical considerations. However, I would also like to tell you and ensure that the Hungarians of Transcarpathia will not be sacrificed on the altar of major politics and world politics. Of course, we resist all kinds of pressure in this regard, all the more so because Ukraine is in a decision-making situation. If Ukraine is truly important for European integration or the European integration of Ukraine is important for others, then Ukrainians must take action. They have nothing to do but to withdraw the chapter of their educational law that takes away the rights of Hungarians and other national communities for their native language education. As Ukraine takes this step, we will once again be the loudest and most active supporters of the European integration process. Until they do, we won't support them under any circumstances. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-27-190	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Bárándy, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Do you think that the entire judiciary is a commie? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Bárándy has the floor.
u2017-11-27-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, Gyula Budai, Fidesz Vice President of the Justice Commission, at the meeting of the committee, at which we listened to the leaders of the judiciary, said the following sentence, obviously you know it, but I quote: "Well, those judges, aren't they? They're all commies. That is, he's been commising the entire judiciary, and no one on your part has been separated from him ever since. I'd like to ask you, is this the official and real opinion of Fidesz and the government on the judiciary? Is that your personal opinion of the judiciary? You could say it was just a slip. It wouldn't be okay, but it's not without a history. His ministers, Antal Rogán, János Lázár, Tibor Navracsics, but you also made statements about the judges that caused the Kúria, OBH and the Jury Association to protest. We also remember, of course, the forced retirement of judges and their judicial reform, which the Venice Commission wrote about as a fundamental threat to the independence of the judiciary. Following the recent case, the Judicial Association wrote in its announcement:. The Hungarian Judicial Association regretted the fact that in recent days statements and opinions have been made by politicians who have advocated the rule of law, calling into question the independence of the judiciary and the judiciary, which have been unduly offensive to the judges and the judiciary. These are often humiliating, exclusional and biased statements, capable of weakening the independence of the judiciary, inciting fear in the judiciary, and violating the principle declared in Article 26 of the Fundamental Law. I think those are very serious words. One request has also been made, Prime Minister. The Hungarian Judicial Association therefore calls on the key actors of the legislator and executive power to act decisively at all times in order to protect the rule of law and to distance themselves from statements that violate the independence of the judiciary, in agreement with the association. Will you do that now, Prime Minister? It's secluded? Thank you very much.
u2017-11-27-192	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán to reply. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2017-11-27-193	Detachment isn't our thing, but I'm happy to answer your question. Your question was whether you thought the entire judiciary was a commie. The answer is no, I don't think the entire judiciary is a commie. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-27-194	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2017-11-27-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, Well, then it's obviously to be understood that some of it is, in your opinion. Right? [[Noise and interruptions from the pro-government benches. Dr. Pál Völner: You say that? Zsolt Németh: Ah! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm asking because it's as serious as it is on your part, at least when Gyula Budai says it's complete. We're used to him. We know his style and his intellect. But I think, Prime Minister, that much more is expected from you. I can tell you that wasn't expected. I expected a lot of answers from you, but I certainly didn't expect that. Technically, you've been commenting on not all of the judiciary, but part of it. [[Moore from the pro-government benches.]] Because that's the answer, Prime Minister, that's what it's all about. I didn't ask you to distance yourself, Prime Minister. I read it. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] a quote from the Hungarian Judicial Association. They asked for the cut-off, so I would ask you once again - you know that word, you know, you used it - to distance yourself from this statement and to assure the judges that you don't think so, and what's more, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Not even the way you did in your previous speech, by the way. Thank you very much. [[17.00]]
u2017-11-27-196	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor. [[Dr. Pál Völner to Dr. Gergely Bárándy:]]
u2017-11-27-197	Mr President, My fellow Member! The Hungarian Government is based on constitutional foundations, the Constitution states: judges are independent and are subject only to the law, cannot be ordered in their judicial activities, that is, they are independent, and the Hungarian Government respects this. If you want to know any other questions or other answers than what you asked, ask me, I would be happy to answer. But before that happens, I'll bring you news from January 2012 [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] This is the announcement of the Hungarian Judicial Association - the announcement of the Hungarian Judicial Association, I quote -:. During more than twenty years of Hungarian democracy, it is an unprecedented case that a Member of Parliament, former member of the National Judicial Council, should, under the pretext of protecting the justice system, call independent judges political commissaries by virtue of the power of law, and threaten me with accountability. This congressman was you, Mr. Bárándy. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So much for the credibility of your question. [[Moore, clarity, and a big round of applause in the ranks of the governing parties. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I'll do it now! I'll take my word for it right now, Prime Minister. Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: The apple did not fall far from the tree!]]
u2017-11-27-198	Dear Parliament, I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. We'll get back to work. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Prime Minister, Fidesz Zrt. As CEO, how much money do you have? It's an address. Congressman György Szilágyi has the floor. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Be tough!]]
u2017-11-27-199	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Today, the richest company in Hungary is Fidesz Zrt., which has chosen an unknown form for getting rich: they are registered as political parties, but their main activities are economic in nature, and they specialize mainly in trolling public funds. Zrt. is controlled by the CEO in one person, who also likes to usurp the title of the Prime Minister of Hungary, i.e. you, Viktor Orbán. Fidesz Zrt.'s aim is to tap the public funds as much as possible, and a network of companies has been put together through the strómányok in the closed system. Andy Vajna, Lőrinc Mészáros, István Garancsi, Árpád Habony, and I might add that they all operate in different areas per stroma. These actors seem to operate separately, but in reality they only perform their activities under the authority and control of.--Fidesz Zrt.; as long as they belong to the closed company of Fidesz Zrt., they assured them that as much public money as possible, access more public and EU funds, win as many tenders as possible, and gain as much profit as possible from overinvoicing and other tricks to the detriment of Hungary, to the detriment of Hungarian people. Therefore, Viktor Orbán, you are today the richest man in Hungary, and not Sándor Csányi, because if we add together the fortune that the stromónos have, no one can compete with you. In one person, you control this wealth, you decide the acquisition of Lake Balaton, Tokaj-Hegyalja, the media, hotels, luxury yachts and luxury estates, dominate almost the entire media, and as a godfather, you decide the fates of men. So it can be said: Prime Minister of Hungary through the Fidesz Zrt. and the network of stromones [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] He works exclusively for his own gain and wealth, and not for the flowering of Hungary. Prime Minister! Is it okay for you to rob Hungary through Fidesz Zrt.? [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-27-200	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2017-11-27-201	[[Sitting in place:]] What was the question? [[Dóra Dúró: There was a question! György Szilágyi: Is it right for you to rob Hungary! Interviews from Jobbik: The question has been asked! It's done! Viktor Orbán continues standing up.]] Mr President, All I can say is that with the campaign approaching, more and more absurd questions and more absurd attacks are coming. I would like to reassure the country's public opinion that this does not affect us at all in our work. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] As far as the Member is concerned, I would just like to say that there is now an absurdly speaking party about corruption that is eating from the palm of an oligarch today. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Come on! Come on. A big round of applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-27-202	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. [[Dr. István Józsa: What became an oligarch?!]] A rejoinder shall be given to the Member for a one-minute period.
u2017-11-27-203	The Prime Minister didn't seem to listen, so I repeat the question again, although he didn't answer it: is it okay that you rob Hungary through Fidesz Zrt.? Prime Minister, you're running a network of stooges where people's money is stolen, where they're stealing the public funds that should be spent elsewhere. You are also protecting these stooges and these companies by providing them with protection so that there is no investigation into their economic abuse. You're the head of this entire network, you're the one running this network. But, Prime Minister, you can say a lot of things here, and you can make this a very small question, one thing is certain: those companies, such as Fidesz Zrt., who consider themselves untouchable, will come to account once in their lives, the period of accountability. This will take place after the 2018 elections in the case of Fidesz Zrt. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] When he gets on the Jobbik government, he's gonna have Fidesz accounted for. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] And with them, the men who work for them. Believe me, we're gonna do what you've been promising for 27 years. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] In this country! [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Intercoms from the ruling parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: It was a fading applause!]]
u2017-11-27-204	Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2017-11-27-205	Mr President, It would be unworthy of me to ask specific questions. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] All I would like to do now is to say that I would ask my fellow Member to press charges if he is aware of a crime. [[György Szilágyi: We did it!]] And if he doesn't press charges, or doesn't know about them, [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] But he says things like that, and then I can only suggest that he consult a doctor. [[György Szilágyi: Me?!! Me?! Defiance and great applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-27-206	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. [[Szilárd Németh: Mood repairer!]] Dear Parliament, It's 5:06 p.m., and we've reached the end of the immediate questioning. Thank you for your cooperation. If possible, please leave the meeting room quietly. [[Some of the congressmen are leaving the meeting room. Foålya.ma.tos, big noise.]] Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél asked for the floor on a point of order. Here, if it's a point of order, you have the floor.
u2017-11-27-207	Dear Parliament, Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I wish I had been happy that if everyone could sit and listen to this speech, I would now say to the gentlemen of Fidesz on their backs...
u2017-11-27-208	Congresswoman, before you proceed, please make a suggestion on the point of order.
u2017-11-27-209	All right. I request immediate investigation of the case that our colleague, Szilárd Németh, called our colleague Ákos Hadházy a liar and rat [[Moors and interrogations in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] When he applied for a statement. For my part, I find it unacceptable to name fellow Members on different animal names. It's that if someone's lying...
u2017-11-27-210	Congresswoman...
u2017-11-27-211	...an opinion on that too...
u2017-11-27-212	One moment, please.
u2017-11-27-213	...but I'm sorry. [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]] Mr. President, in my opinion, it is unacceptable for rats to...
u2017-11-27-214	Congresswoman, I don't consider it a point of order. Please wait until I answer you, I will answer you exactly according to the house rules. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and This is not a point of order, because there is a record, a literal record keeping, video recording of the meeting is taking place. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] What you may or may not have heard is your case. You're gonna have to wait until the report's ready, and please do this. If you maintain this, you will be able to proceed in this matter, if you do not accept it; you will be able to view the video footage. I would ask that we spare each other the fact that someone in this Chamber is constantly asking for a point of order in relation to any presumption. [[A statement from the opposition: It has been a thousand of these, Mr President, in recent years!]] My apologies, I can't give you the floor anymore. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-27-215	[[Without sound:]] Mr President, I would like to remind you that there is a double standard in Parliament, that there was an opportunity for the pro-government factions; if the opposition raises this problem, then why is there no possibility for us to signal it? [[Intercom from the opposition benches.]] [[Intercom from the opposition benches.]] We find it unacceptable that our pro-government fellow Members... (Intercom from opposition benches. )
u2017-11-27-216	Congresswoman! I will inform you once again, the report will be drawn up, and you will be carefully examined, and you may view the video, but please do not accuse anyone of not having been proven. Thank you so much for understanding. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I heard it with my own ears, I saw it with my own eyes, Mr. President. György Balla: Feel free to see it! I was sitting right next to him. There was nothing like that. Interviews. György Balla: It didn't say that! Intercoms.]] [[17.10]] [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2017-11-27-217	[[Noise. It's ringing.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. A series of requests for referrals will be discussed. The Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party has proposed that the Parliament decide on the measures necessary to create a fair and equitable pension system and to provide greater support for the livelihood of the elderly in need and caregivers. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. [[Noise. It's ringing.]] Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to the author of Mr Lajos Korózs, Member, in a five-minute time frame. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-27-218	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Our motion was, among other things, to the People's Welfare Committee that the Socialist Group had tabled a proposal for a parliamentary decision on the establishment of a fair pension system, and I would ask the plenary session, this House, to include our motion in the series of questions. In this motion, we have summarised several points of the anomalies that the pension system should solve, the first and most important of which is that the new measure should create flexibility for retirement. We have proposed that workers should be able to retire at least five years before the applicable retirement age, and, of course, its level should be proportionate to the duration of the service and the amount of the contribution paid. Our second motion was to restore disability and accident disability pensions, all the more so because this measure ceased as of 1 January 2012, and unfortunately a lot of people fell out of the pension system and not only from the pension system, but also from the entitlements linked to pension status. The third such motion was to put service pensions on a new footing. In our view, the fundamental rights restrictions should be lifted and this new type of service pension should provide for the conversion of service obligations into personal income tax income. Our next motion was that the minimum pension amount should be at least HUF 50,000. In addition, we proposed that the annual pension increase should index the size of the minimum old-age pension, all the more so, because this amount, unfortunately, has remained the same for nine years, is HUF 28 500. In our next motion, we propose that a mixed indexation system should be restored, taking into account current wage increases, net wage increases and prices. In front of our well-known fellow Members, I am talking about the so-called Swiss indexation when I refer to the mixed indexation. Our next motion was to remove all restrictions on working alongside a pension, all the more so because a person practically buys a pension with a period of service and a contribution. Our next motion - I wrote to myself here in point 7 - was to restore the ceiling. It is also known to my fellow Members that a few years ago, the government abolished the contribution ceiling, and this brought into the pension system such injustices that, while nine years ago, the minimum pension of HUF 28 500 remained unchanged, the condition for having pensions of up to million in Hungary was created. Our next motion is a 50% increase in elderly people's benefits. I think it is unnecessary to say that it is the case that the person who has reached the retirement age, but who does not have sufficient service time, is entitled to the benefit of the elderly, but this payment as a pension-like benefit has been unchanged for years, which is why we have proposed a 50 percent increase. Our next motion is a 50 percent increase in the monthly framework for public health care. Among other things, our proposal suggested that elderly people who have passed 65 years of age have either reached retirement age or are suffering from a future retirement age and are suffering from chronic illness can receive this medicine free of charge for their recovery. And our last motion is to increase the care fee by 80%. I would ask my fellow Members to support our motion. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-27-219	Thank you, Congressman Korózs. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Congressman Sebestyén, Jobbik.
u2017-11-27-220	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We will, of course, support the application for inclusion at tomorrow's meeting, because we see the anomalies in the pension system in the same way, and we also know that this needs to be changed. Although it is possible, and it is also possible that some of these points have different ideas than the Socialist Party, we believe that this is an important issue that should be discussed at the plenary session of the Parliament. These points should be examined, these points reviewed and the pension system or other benefits changed according to these points. Due to the shortness of time, I cannot go to all the points, but I would like to highlight just a few of the points listed above. One of the most important issues is service pensions. Although we know that there were injustices in the system before Fidesz abolished this measure, I believe that, as with a number of other measures, the lawnmower principle does not apply here either. All that should have been done was to invest a little more work in this measure and not eliminate this care and this possibility, but to review who is actually entitled to do so as a result of the work carried out or even the reductions, and who is not. The same is true of the issue of disability pensions. There was a lot of abuse in the system, too, but it is not the solution to eliminate it and put a lot of people in an unfair and unliving position, in many cases we put them in a humiliating position, but the solution is that we are doing the same here, and we are also working out the system for those who actually need or actually deserve this care to fall out in this system. This is also the case with the rate of the care fee. Many people are in an unfair, unliving and humiliating situation due to the low supply, so there is a need for an increase here too. The few examples that have been taken show that we are talking about very important issues. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So I'm going to say again that we're going to support tomorrow's series of articles. Thank you for listening. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-27-221	Thank you, Congressman Cutter Sebestyén. I'll give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter in two minutes.
u2017-11-27-222	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is true that there is a need for a truly fair and equitable pension system, as is the need to ensure the livelihood of the elderly in need and those who care for them. We see that the government does not have an elderly policy, but merely tries to bring pensioners to its side through pre-election distribution and cheap propaganda. The LMP has always taken care to make only and only responsible promises. Today there are 2.6 million people in Hungary receiving pensions or pension benefits, among them 1.2 million are not even worth 100 thousand forints. [[17.20]] Tens of thousands of people are receiving a pension below 50,000 forints. We believe that commitments should be made that are responsible and can be provided for. The LMP has developed an action plan for pensioners along the lines of the responsible commitments, otherwise this differs on several points from what has been presented to the House by the authors at the moment. Nevertheless, the LMP will, of course, support the fact that their proposal will in any way be put before the House and that there will be a debate on this. According to the LMP, settling the situation of those receiving low care in old age should be the first step, so we recommend raising the minimum retirement pension of HUF 28 500 to HUF 50,000 in the ninth year and increasing pensions below the level of living. We support the consideration of wage increases in annual pension increases. We would return the care of pensioners working in the public sector, which Fidesz has taken away, and we would abolish the rules restricting employment. We would like to acknowledge the work of family members who care for their elderly relatives at home. We would definitely return the guarantee to the pension both in the Fundamental Law and in the sectoral laws concerned, such as the retirement status of former pensioners, and we will establish a fair, socially fair, equitable, early retirement and early retirement pension system. We support the inclusion of the series of subjects. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-11-27-223	Thank you, Congresswoman Márta Demeter. I will give the floor to Congressman Sándor Kovács in two minutes, Fidesz.
u2017-11-27-224	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, We've got a very complex substance. I think that the government's objective can also be seen: to operate a fair and targeted social care system, in order to ensure that people in need of social services can obtain benefits that facilitate their lives. A number of measures have been taken in recent years to promote the social security of families in need of help in difficult financial circumstances, with a number of tools being used by the government to ease the situation of people in a difficult social situation, elderly people and people with health problems. The priority objective is to provide all Hungarian citizens with the benefits and services they require. Depending on the capacity of the Hungarian economy, the government is constantly examining the possibility of raising the income threshold for social benefits and other amounts. Contrary to the Gyurcsány Kortal, the Hungarian government does not intend to do this on credit, but in all cases, taking into account the performance of the economy. Allow me to say just one item: every year, the government has provided rehabilitation employment for 30 500 people with HUF 34 billion since 2013 instead of disability pensions. I think that the policy of the government can be monitored and clearly defined: a balanced social policy and a pension policy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-27-225	Thank you very much, Congressman Sándor Kovács. I give the floor in two minutes to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary, MSZP.
u2017-11-27-226	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You're right, Mr Kovács, there's been a lot of action, but it's not extra, it's minus. Think back to December 2010, when, on the basis of a popular initiative, the retirement age was to be fixed in 62 years, and then you stamped the 65-year retirement age from 2022, while in the following days, and in 2011, the full range of flexibility was abolished. Whether it's age discount or age discount, no matter what we're talking about, these institutions have been liquidated. The story is therefore simple: a decent pension system must be run that carries flexibility in addition to its fairness; you know, so that a person with 40-42 years of service can not choose between two options at 62: he goes to trimming, pre-retirement benefits for 44 thousand forints, or goes to public parks to rake as a public worker for 54 thousand forints, as it is difficult to find a job in the labour market even in today's relations. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]] One word as one hundred: in addition to flexibility, the issue of disability or accident disability should not be forgotten and treated the way you handle it. The minimum rate of old-age pension and its size shall be increased in a proportionate manner. The 28 500 forints that have been unparalleled for eight years in your period of the second and third Orbán government are unchanged, unacceptable and shameful. In addition, the restrictive rules on employment with pensions should have been lifted long ago, what you have done, remembering teachers, doctors and many others. And if we want to operate a fair system, then there is a place for mixed indexation, the Swiss indexation, and there is also a place for what my fellow Member, Mr Korózs, has said to do to increase the rates of care. That's why I'm asking you to support this series of articles.
u2017-11-27-227	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. I'll see if anyone else wants to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Then I shall give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Lajos Korózs, who clearly wishes to reply. [[To Lajos Korózs:]] He doesn't want to answer. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The May Other Group of the Political Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the T/16202 amendment of individual laws to assist single parents. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I will give the floor to the rapporteur, Mrs Márta Demeter, within a five-minute timeframe.
u2017-11-27-228	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, The strange thing is that, here in front of this House, I remember Mr Rétvári, State Secretary, said that the debate must take place in the committees, the professional debate on certain proposals. This has been done, and LMP's bill of support for single-parent families has been presented to the People's Welfare Committee, which was essentially an action plan of ten points. Unfortunately, I must say that I took part as rapporteur in the Committee on Welfare that there was no substantive debate in the Committee on Welfare, and when the President asked for a word to state the position of Fidesz, we could hear essentially the kind of success that we have been accustomed to in recent years, no matter what area it is and which social group it is. There is a lot of work to be done to help single-parent families, because it is clear that they are the ones who do not fit into the traditional family model preferred by Fidesz-KDNP, and unfortunately the government is also in this way, so it can be seen that they treat single-parent families as stepparents. Yet, we need to see that more than half a million children now live in this family, and families where one parent raises one child or more children are now at risk of poverty at 62 percent. So we are talking about an extremely vulnerable group of families, a social group, who are in this situation without their own fault, because that is not how any family basically starts planning, and a lot of people are in a very difficult situation financially. It can be seen that in such cases, a single parent constantly carries a burden on two people, and it is natural for these parents to try their best to raise their children with honor and give them everything. But where is the terrible injustice in terms of the institutional system and their support? If you look at the fact that when a parent is registered for a minimum wage in a single - parent family, he is no longer considered to be underprivileged, so we are talking about a life situation where he is not immediately receiving free kindergarten care or preferential school meals or free textbook supplies in the upper classes, so these families are at a disadvantage. That's why we submitted our bill. I wouldn't list all ten points right now, but I would list most of them. Our proposals include financial, labour market and legal assistance for these families. To top it off, I would like to emphasise the increase in the family allowance. Here, instead of the current HUF 13 700, we would increase the family allowance for single-parent families to HUF 20,000, a 45 percent increase, and we would also increase the basic amount of the family allowance by 30 percent. [[17 .30]] In addition, the system of maintenance fees should be reviewed. In order to establish maintenance fees on the basis of real income, the property inspection option requested by the NAV would be available according to our proposal, and the State would advance outstanding maintenance fees after two months' loss unless the child's care was otherwise provided. I think that would be a huge help for single - parent families. In addition, we would extend the large family benefits of subjective rights to single-parent families with this proposal, as I have said, free nursery care, reduced school meals and free textbook provision in the upper classes. It is very important to adjust the day-to-day opening hours in kindergarten and kindergarten, so that the parent can pick up his child before starting the shift or after overtime. In many places, they cannot guarantee this opening hours at present, as the municipality is unable to provide the institution with the necessary overtime money. This should be possible, and this proposal would also help. It is very important to give preference to single-parent families when applying for social housing, because once again, we are talking about a very vulnerable group, and for them, CSOK is not a solution, they cannot take credit, and they do not have any savings at all. In addition, it is very important to set up a family centre in each county, where appropriate assistance could be given to these families. I think that we are talking about a very important issue, which is not a party policy issue, which is why I am asking my fellow Members to support the inclusion of the proposal in this series. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-27-229	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Márta Demeter. Groups have two or two minutes to make their views known. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, Jobbik.
u2017-11-27-230	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It seems that Bence Rétvári is also wrong in the fact that we are conducting a substantive discussion and conflict of professional arguments in the committees, because this, as she mentioned, did not take place in the committee, but was planned for a five-party party, in fact it was a two-party consultation involving only the representatives of LMP and Jobbik, for example in the case of single-parent families, but this was also the case at a conference on the occasion of the World Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women on the weekend, and it was also the two parties that appeared in both cases. Jobbik has made a number of proposals to complement the LMP proposal, and there have been some points that we would have expressed differently, or proposed amendments. Overall, however, this proposal is certainly suitable for discussion, since it offers meaningful, concrete proposals for solutions for single-parent families. We would have liked this proposal to be added, and the discussion on single-parent families is added to the importance of prevention, as we see from statistics that there are a number of life situations where divorce itself could otherwise be prevented, but there is not enough awareness or support for families to avoid this sad situation. In addition, Jobbik proposes to free legal assistance, since in such a life situation, which both financially and spiritually affects all parties, the majority of mothers become vulnerable, although since the 1991 census, the number of single - parent families has increased dramatically in the number of single - parent fathers. We would, of course, ensure this for both of you. In addition, we would help both large family members and single parents by involving students of higher education in the social field. So Jobbik supports the subject series. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-27-231	Thank you, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró. The position of Fidesz is presented by Mr Sándor Kovács.
u2017-11-27-232	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Family support benefits, both subject-matter and cash benefits, are entitled to the same benefit as the parent raising the child alone as the foster parent raising their child jointly, i.e. two legal representatives in their own household. In the case of family allowances, the legislation is differentiated in a positive direction in terms of the amount of care due to a single parent, as it is entitled to an increased amount of family benefits, in contrast to the benefits for a parent in a household. [[Dóra Dúró: But how much?]] Family allowance is not a social benefit and it is therefore not possible to take into account social aspects when determining its amount. There are different forms of support depending on the need, such as regular child protection benefits, the use of which is based on family income and other social considerations. For single-parent families, the income ceiling below which the benefit may be granted is higher than 140 per cent of the minimum amount of the old-age pension at any time. Next year, this threshold will be increased to 145 percent of the minimum old-age pension so that more families in need can obtain benefits under the benefit. The complexity of family policy shows that it responds to all of the diverse life situations. It regulates the interests of children and is primarily in their interest. From 2017, children of single parents should be given priority when taking a nursery or mini-cradle, provided that parents are able to demonstrate that they are in employment or have a working relationship. As of May 2017, the Erzsébet program was launched, a holiday application for single-parents, as well as the family home-building discount, the CSOK, which is the same amount for the existing child for single-parent families as where two parents are raising children. With family benefits, 92 percent of families can live. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] A single parent can claim the benefit in the same way as a family with three or more children. It will affect more families [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] the provision of free textbooks. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-27-233	Thank you very much, Congressman Sándor Kovács. The position of the Hungarian Socialist Party is presented by MEP László Varga.
u2017-11-27-234	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We also support the inclusion of the motion in the series, and welcome the motion. I'm a little skeptical, and it might be worth looking back at how many opposition proposals the Parliament has supported in these circumstances in this cycle. I don't think so, unfortunately. Therefore, despite the fact that opposition representatives, regardless of their party affiliation, have argued otherwise to be appreciated in relation to a proposal, I see that we are constantly bumping into walls. There are several such proposals today. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, ladies and gentlemen, although the Fidesz comment before me has not shown this, I think it is more appropriate to judge the motion and not necessarily to say propaganda texts here. Because why not take into account a lot of the aspects contained in the motion? Why not consider, say, other life or social aspects of the family allowance? We have also drawn attention to many of these aspects in recent years, the importance of a differentiated increase in family allowances, and we see that we too are throwing them away year after year with our proposals. This complex package, which indeed contains legal solutions and labour market solutions, I must say that even approach solutions in order to help single parents, I think it is right, a proposal that represents progress. So I hope you will consider your support. I am very confident that the pro-government representatives will also support the inclusion of this series of subjects. Then, of course, if you want to apply other aspects, you can enforce them before the Parliament in the debate and in the amendments. So once again, we support the inclusion of the series of subjects. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-11-27-235	Thank you, Congressman László Varga. I don't see any more applicants. I give the floor to Mrs Márta Demeter, the rapporteur, to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2017-11-27-236	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for supporting statements from the opposition. Once again, I stress that we are not talking about a party policy issue, which is why we have initiated a five-party discussion where we have tried to discuss this issue as many as possible. It's true that LMP and Jobbik were involved. I would hope that the participation of the other parties on such an important subject could otherwise be expected. This has not happened on this subject. As my pro-government fellow Member has mentioned many things, however, that is what you have done, which is what we have heard at the committee meeting, this kind of success propaganda, so I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I think that everyone can see clearly that the government is pursuing a very, very conscious policy, so there are no ad hoc subsidies for families at all, and it is not an ad hoc idea of the measures, but it is precisely a national capital class that is being built here. [[17.40]] Those who can't fit into your ideological approach or fit into that material circle, that upper middle-class or upper-class circle, unfortunately they don't care at all. I think that's unacceptable. And why should social aspects not be taken into account, taking into account material aspects when establishing these subsidies? Indeed, those who need it more need more support, it is quite clear. And as you mentioned the CSOK, for example, so that single-parent families can use it - yes, yes, if they are making an amazing amount of money. I think that there are a lot of families in the vicinity of the governing parties where this would certainly not be a problem, but most single - parent families do live in extremely difficult financial circumstances, so I think it is insensitive how the governing party agrees. Of course, the proposals will continue to be maintained and submitted and will be implemented from April 2018. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-27-237	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Márta Demeter. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the need to increase family support H/17886. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. First, I will give the floor to the rapporteur, Mrs Dóra Dúró, on behalf of Jobbik, within a five-minute time frame.
u2017-11-27-238	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It must have been a mistake for those pro-government representatives who voted against this motion, as they opposed the five-party declaration signed by their former group leader and, in the case of KDNP, by Péter Harrach and Antal Rogán. In 2013, the group leader of every parliamentary party at that time signed an agreement that was concluded by the Three Princes, Three Queens Foundation. One sentence of this statement, signed by each party, says: we undertake to support proposals to increase the population in both government and opposition roles. From now on, it would not be possible for a representative to reject a proposal for a decision to extend a family support scheme. Your faction leaders have agreed to act accordingly. Now we see what your word is worth even on family support issues. It cannot be taken seriously if they sign a five-party declaration because they are able to do the opposite in committee, and they will certainly do the same in plenary tomorrow. However, this proposal is an mature better proposal, which, by the way, leaves the development of the details entirely to the government. It is not, therefore, that we want to impose concrete measures on you; we also have such proposals, of course, on how to transform the current system or change some of its elements, but this only sets the framework and leaves it to the government to do so. We would also have a shared responsibility and a shared duty, honourable Members, because, despite all the measures taken by the government over the past period, the problem is growing. The rate of population loss is also increasing on the basis of the latest HCSO reports. Again, fewer people were born and more died. So while you say, in part, that you are right to do what you do to support families, you need to see what the result is. And the result is that the rate of population loss is increasing and fewer children are born year after year, even under your governance, honourable Members. A representative survey has been carried out on how population loss is judged by society, as we often hear stereotypes that are not important to people, or that they think that population loss is not worth dealing with. This is supported by the representative research that I would like to present to you the results and answers to this question. In particular, 59 percent of respondents agree with the question that the main problems of Hungary are the root cause of population loss, my fellow Members. 59 percent believe that the biggest problems are population loss. It is therefore our common duty and our responsibility to the electorate to make every single proposal, with the support of each such proposal, so as to reduce it. And people were also asked about government policy, it is also a representative research that you believe that the current government's family policy is sufficient to deal with the Hungarian population crisis? It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. And imagine, and here an even greater majority of respondents said that no, further action is needed. 78 percent of the people believe, honourable Members, that what you have done in the past is not enough to enable Hungary and the Hungarian Parliament to handle this crisis. Therefore, on these grounds, Jobbik will present the 12 points resolution proposal that would help families in the most diverse areas of life. Because, yes, we would like, for example, to make family support a follow-up to inflation. You usually refer to the fact that the pension system, pensions, are inflation followers as a huge achievement. Don't families deserve the same thing? Don't they deserve the predictability that if there is a certain amount of family support, it won't lose its real value next year? For example, since tax relief was introduced, it has lost a lot of value since 2011. But there is a tax reduction, a rent-apartment scheme, a tax reduction, free public transport, or I could mention the abolition of the nursery care fee that you introduced. It was a austerity that affected the families where the mother goes back to work. So you have not only expanded family support but also narrowed it down in some areas. This proposal would also remedy this. I'm asking for your support. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-27-239	Thank you, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró. One representative per group of representatives may make a two-minute contribution. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, LMP.
u2017-11-27-240	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The LMP will support the inclusion of this proposal in the series of subjects, because, as we have discussed above, it is extremely important to increase family support, because it is actually necessary to have a much more complex package of measures than we can see in any form with the government. I would like to point out once again how important it would be to increase the family allowance, which has not increased since 2008. LMP would increase this from HUF 13 700 to HUF 20,000, and we would make an average increase of 30 per cent. In this proposal, I think that there may be more points on which it would be worth discussing the concrete proposals of Jobbik, but we nevertheless support the inclusion of this proposal in the series. Let this be the case in this House and make proposals for amendments to it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-27-241	Thank you, Congresswoman Márta Demeter. I'll give it to Congressman Sándor Kovács for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2017-11-27-242	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, in 2010, Hungary had to be turned back from the edge of a demographic gap, and I think that it was possible to do so from a multiplier of 1,26, to a multiplier of 1,49, with all the support of family policy, with the child's extra and other family tax and contributions that Jobbik did not vote for in the course of the budgetary negotiations, and which contributed to tackling this demographic situation. Yes, Jobbik also did not vote in the 2018 budget for this family tax relief to increase to HUF 35 thousand in 2018 for families with two children and HUF 40,000 from 2019. But I wonder if the new Family Support Act will vote to suspend the mother's student loan for 3 years at the time of the first child's birth, half of the debt at the birth of the second child and half of the debt at the birth of the third child. Or that the duration of your graduation is extended by one year, i.e. until the child is 2 years old. Families with third and additional children can reduce their mortgage debt by HUF 1-1 million per child. The cradle development continues. Cradle care will receive budget support of nearly HUF 37 billion in 2018. Hungarian families living abroad are also entitled to maternity benefits. [[17.50]] The Hungarian budget provided a total of HUF 1759 billion in 2017 for families with children, which is 11 percent more than for 2016 and 82 percent more than for family support in the 2010 budget. So I think these figures also prove that the Hungarian government is responsible for family support. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-11-27-243	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2017-11-27-244	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We perish, we buy, Hungary, and the Hungarian society will self-destruct if everything goes on like this. My fellow Member, Kovács, it is a very nice and good thing that the total fertility rate in Hungary is increasing from 1,23 to 1,48, but this is all too little to remain, and the 21st century. We can preserve the Hungarian nation alive and growing here in the century. That is why we should rise above party political considerations and at least give their support as a statement of intent in principle, as a declaration of intent on population policy, so that we can at least negotiate these issues, these 12 points, between the walls of this House. Colleagues! Hungarians are on the verge of a demographic divide. It's a fact. If we look at the terrible results of the present microcensus, that from 1980 to here 10 million 700 thousand, while there is also an ethnic reorganization in the country, the population of Hungary has fallen to 9 million 800 thousand, so that the proportion of older people over 65 has never been 18 percent, and the proportion of children has never been as small, 15 percent in Hungary as now, I think he speaks for himself. That is why we should at least discuss these proposals and let them come before this House. We say, fellow Members, on the pro-government side, that support for child rearing is not a form of social favor on the part of the government, but our biggest investment in the future, the Hungarian survival. That is why we should pay much more attention to it, as we cannot imagine a greater investment in human capital, or the preservation of the future. Fellow Members, I would very much ask you to review your position and vote on it so that at least it can be negotiated. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-27-245	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Varga, MSZP.
u2017-11-27-246	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I can say the same thing as in the previous proposal that we support the inclusion of this series of subjects, and I very much hope that you will support it, although I obviously do not have excessive illusions. I very much hope that at least some of the opposition proposals that we are discussing today will be included in a series of subjects, thus approaching the end of the term, giving us the opportunity to debate these issues in front of the Parliament. Since this is a proposal for a decision, and it lists in 12 points the objectives that we can actually assume, the framework is such that the government is then obliged to bring legislation before the Parliament. You can agree with your goals. Several of these objectives are proposed and supported by the MSZP fraction. I think that all of this can contribute to the expansion of family support and thus partly to remedy demographic problems. It is not the solution in this regard that Fidesz is pointing out for the period before 2010. Indeed, it is clear that he has failed to achieve a breakthrough in this area. Indeed, the demographic situation in the country is always devastating and even emigrated by some 600 thousand of our countrymen, and more and more Hungarian children are born abroad. I think that these questions, which are now on the table, cannot wait any longer. So I ask you to support this series of articles, and we will certainly do so. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-11-27-247	Thank you very much. I don't see any more commentaries. I give the floor to the author, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró.
u2017-11-27-248	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the representatives of the factions who have given their support. However, I have not heard any argument from anywhere as to why they would not vote for this proposal. We were talking about what the Jobbik did then and then. That is not the issue now, but that, despite your faction leader's signature to support all proposals in government and opposition, you will not vote for it. What's wrong with this proposal? Don't you want your family support to follow inflation? Wouldn't you like a rental-building program to start? Wouldn't you like to make public transport free for people under the age of 14? Or what's wrong with this proposal? Why don't you support this? Fellow Members! We talk about different rates, but since 1980 the population of Hungarians has been decreasing. And in that time, we have come to the point that at present no 1.2 plus 1.4 should be the ratio, nor 2.1: at present, all Hungarian women of childbearing age should have four children to maintain the desired number of Hungarians. Where are we from here? If we're 1.2 miles away, it's a long way to 1.4. All women of childbearing age should have four children, and you will begin to argue on a proposal for a resolution, which does not set a time limit for the government, and will actually leave the creation of specific legislation to the government, and also to propose to change the law to this end. You are not taking this problem seriously enough, I must say. I regret that they cannot rise above party politics, even on the issue that most people consider to be the root of our most serious problems. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-27-249	Thank you, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide the Visegrad Group H/17902 on reinforcement and extension Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Gábor Vona, in a five-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2017-11-27-250	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It is rare for a person to be in a position to say that no matter how this proposal for a resolution will turn out, everything that this proposal for a resolution is about will eventually become a reality. I am 100 percent sure that the V4 will sooner or later become richer with a permanent parliamentary assembly, but I would like that, and that is why I am here, and that is why I will ask you to support our proposal for a resolution if this is achieved as soon as possible. If the objective is so clear, so good, so necessary, so timely, then why should we wait any longer, because our proposal for a resolution, as I mentioned in the semi-phrase, is about adding a permanent parliamentary assembly to the cooperation of the V4 which is a very important regional alliance, perhaps our most important international cooperation forum, along with the level between governments. In 1991, this cooperation was created as a V3, then it became a V4 with the split between the Czech Republic and Slovakia. If we look back over the last 26 years, we can safely say that this federal system has proved to be the most lasting international cooperation for us in the past 26 years. I think that the cooperation of the V4 has not only a historical past, but there is certainly a future perspective. Therefore, it is my phrase that will essentially be a cliché line: (1) it is in Hungary's interest to strengthen, deepen and stabilise cooperation between the V4 countries; (2) it is in the interest of the four Member States participating in the V4 cooperation; (3) it is in the interest of the whole of Eastern Central Europe; and (4) it is also in the interest of the European Union. Why it is in Hungary's interest, why Eastern Central Europe and the V4 Member States have an interest in making this cooperation even deeper with a permanent parliamentary assembly, I think I do not have to explain it for long. We have many problems, and I even go on, most of our problems are things that we have in common. There are contradictions between us, there are historical and current debates between us, but eight out of ten of our problems are the same in this region, and in the V4 Member States in particular. And if that is the case, how good it would be if we could discuss these problems together, find common solutions and, where appropriate, do so together in various international arenas, even within the European Union! [[18.00]] But why is the European Union also interested in a strong V4? Because if the V4 is strengthened, if the V4 cooperation is stabilised, it will be impossible for Europe to be two or more speedy. If so, a strong V4 is the guarantee that we will belong to the core countries in a multi-speed Europe. So I may not have to explain myself to the people present, and the debate that took place at the committee meeting, despite the rejection, has proved that we agree on the objective. The aim is to create a dynamic, stable and strong V4 cooperation. In addition, this idea is very topical, because on the one hand we are the President-in-Office of the V4 cooperation, I do not know if this word "serial" can be used here, so let's just say that we are the current leaders of the V4 cooperation. It's definitely an actuality. How nice it would be if our Presidency could put this historic advance under the Christmas tree. The other fact is that V4 is in crisis at the moment. The history of the past 26 years has been wavering anyway, but there is a challenge here, the Slavkov triple, right, Czech, Austrian and Slovak cooperation, according to many foreign policy analyses and analysts, is a very serious challenge and may even threaten to break up the V4 cooperation. We need to prevent such fragmentation and fragmentation, and to do so, a permanent parliamentary assembly, I think, provides an appropriate basis. Why has the V4 not been able to become more stable, stronger? Why hasn't this happened in the last 26 years? My answer is that we failed to socialize V4 cooperation. For citizens of the V4 Member States, this is some distant, intergovernmental toast, conversation, not the reality of everyday life. Citizens of our Member States do not feel that they do. If this permanent parliamentary assembly is established and we give V4 cooperation the legitimacy of popular sovereignty, then finally the Hungarian people, the Czech people, the Slovak people and the Polish people can feel that this cooperation is theirs; they may feel that it is about them, not about the private transactions of some heads of government. That is why I ask you, in the knowledge of this historic responsibility, that we do not wait any longer, let us not delay any longer, but now, when we are the presidents of this cooperation, let us make this historic step forward, the possibility of a permanent parliamentary assembly. I therefore ask that you support our proposal for a resolution. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-27-251	Thank you, Congressman Gábor Vona, Mr Party President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it wishes to present the position of any of the factions. Yes, Congressman Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, Fidesz.
u2017-11-27-252	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, as we have heard from the rapporteur here, we have discussed this issue in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and Fidesz and KDNP certainly agree that this parliamentary dimension should be strengthened. At the same time, it has also been said that the parliamentary dimension is not necessarily a good solution to the parliamentary assembly; there is already a permanent cooperation, namely the cooperation of the Foreign Affairs Committees of the V4 countries, which was established by the agreement of the Speakers. In fact, during our current Presidency, President László Kövér proposed that this should be an expert cooperation involving five parliamentary committees. We feel that it is an organic development that may later lead to a parliamentary dimension. Just because it is the Czech Republic, mentioned here, that has not taken a very positive position in the parliamentary dimension. But it's practically operational and operational through this Foreign Affairs Committee, because it was in Warsaw, now it's going to be here on December 13-14. A brief word on enlargement, because the proposal also includes the expansion of Croatia. We do not support this, because there have been examples, such as the Alps-Adria cooperation, this Central European initiative is now composed of 18 Member States and has become quite inoperable. We support V4 plus solutions, V4 plus Croatia or V4 plus Romania is already good cooperation, which can be such a large, wide cooperation in Central Europe. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-27-253	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsolt Csenger-Zalán. I give the floor to Congressman László Szakács, MSZP.
u2017-11-27-254	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I listened to the fidesz comment, the pro-government comment, and I was looking forward to the time when it would come to this issue, either the, at the same time, or the, de, turnaround on this issue. I myself believe that our faction believes that cooperation in Visegrád is very often a reference. It is often a good cooperation, but it is often a reference; when we do not see behind what are the actual processes, what arguments in the debates are those that are expressed, which are of particular importance, which remain in the minority, they really remain in the minority, as those which are the reference foundations, and as those that are circumvented in these principles. We have seen several times, so to speak, a dissociative communication with regard to the V4 countries, when prime ministers justify a step, they do not necessarily show their strongest image. We believe that it is in Hungary's interest that, in a stronger federal system, as possible, as in NATO, in the European Union or within the Union, they should be more formalised and more formalised in the debates to discuss certain issues and even to speak together. I believe that it is not necessarily the cooperation of a standing committee in this Parliament, but the joint functioning of Parliaments that can open up the opportunity and space for this. With regard to the goals to be achieved, I think we all agree that we can sit on either side of the horseshoe, the goals to be achieved are the same. Europe must belong to the part of us that draws the strongest and is in the middle, which determines the future of Europe. We believe that this would be an important step in this matter. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-27-255	Thank you, Congressman Cook. Congressman István Szávay, Jobbik!
u2017-11-27-256	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Over the past few years, Jobbik has said on several occasions that it feels that it is fundamentally good and correct in the pursuit that marked the government's policy and the Prime Minister's foreign policy, which, according to regional interests, has tried to strengthen the cooperation of the Visegrád countries on the basis of historical foundations. This is a good and right direction for us, even if this cooperation has been more than a test stone in recent years, months, or it has not always been possible to coordinate these interests, or there are not always steps on the part of the neighbouring countries, especially Slovakia, that the Hungarian Government would have expected. This proposal before us sets out practically two specific directions. We believe that both specific directions would strengthen this cooperation, although there have been doubts about both of them here, even on behalf of my fellow Member Csenger. We see that this parliamentary dimension, beyond what Gábor Vona said, can also provide the opportunity to deepen the importance of maintaining cooperation in the various parties of the Visegrád countries, to deepen this commitment beyond government cycles. As far as enlargement is concerned, I know that there are such opinions in Fidesz that this may weaken cooperation. As far as we're concerned, it's barely strengthening. In the proposal, we have said that, in particular with regard to Croatia, but the proposal does not name Croatia in this form, as it is absolutely necessary to expand it; although, no doubt, we consider this to be of primary importance on the basis of historical and regional political interests. We are saddened to see how the Hungarian-Croatian relationship has recently developed. We think there's still work to be done here. Mr Csenger, if you basically agree with the creation of a parliamentary dimension and, by the way, with some level of cooperation, then support us to be able to talk about this issue here in front of the House on a substantive basis, because it is unworthy of the importance of this subject that we have only been able to talk about this matter in two minutes. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-27-257	Thank you, Congressman Savay. I don't see any more candidates on the screen. Then I will give the floor to the rapporteur, Congressman Gábor Vona, Mr Party President. [[18.10]]
u2017-11-27-258	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for your comments. At the committee meeting, we could also hear a longer analysis and comment by President Zsolt Németh, who, in the same way, proposed a more cautious, gradual construction. Fidesz therefore abstained from voting, but was supported by a socialist member of the committee. My problem with this cautious, gradual construction is that I fear the death of this entire initiative, while, once again, I am sure that it will come to pass. Because we don't have much time. We don't have much time, because if we look at it, all the processes around us must encourage us to strengthen this cooperation. Let us think about the wage-quality EU, Central and Eastern Europe initiative on wages, thinking about migration in Central and Eastern Europe, especially in the V4 countries, thinking about migration, thinking about the reform of the European Union and various plans on this. When do we want to deepen our cooperation if not now? Maybe tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, it'll be too late. So I'm in favour of careful construction, I'm in favour of thought-out progress, but in this case, I think, since the goal is so clear, so specific, it doesn't make sense to wait. What are we afraid of? How will people in Warsaw, Prague, Bratislava or Budapest show that they don't want a V4 parlament? This fear is absurd. I believe that there is a need to move forward on this issue, so I ask you to consider and reconsider your position so far, and if you do not think about it, I also raised it at the committee meeting and I continue to believe that if the intention to hide behind this stay is that Jobbik put this forward, let us put this whole thing aside, that all parliamentary groups should make a new proposal for a resolution and submit it together, let us just move on. That's what we care about, not whose glory it is. May you have the glory, whoever has the glory, just make progress in this cooperation. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-27-259	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain transport-related laws and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow up. Government referral T/18308. on a serial number, the Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-11-27-260	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 23 November 2017, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/18308 amending certain laws relating to transport. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were adopted by 24 votes to none, with 8 abstentions. The summarised amendment also includes the proposals of the Economic Committee on Languages and Technical Clarifications. Summary of the proposal: the bill is NIF Zrt. acting on behalf of the State in the course of road development. increase the possibility of the transfer of assets created in the course of its investment activity, in particular the investment elements to be transferred to the municipalities and in the course of the replacement of public works. The proposal also includes clarification and enlargement of a number of procedural rules, which are expected to accelerate investment in infrastructure. The proposal also contains amendments to the road certification provisions of the Road Transport Act, in order to ensure that properties carrying municipal roads can become the property of municipalities as soon as possible. The legislative proposal also introduces the necessary changes to the introduction and application of the electronic ticketing system. This system ensures the national interoperability and uniform functioning of electronic ticket systems, electronic passenger information systems and electronic traffic planning and management systems in national, suburban, regional and local passenger services. Thank you for your attention. I ask you to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-27-261	Thank you, Congressman Vas Imre. I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. It says yes. I give the floor to Secretary of State Peter Banai.
u2017-11-27-262	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The Member presented the content of the bill. For your information, no amendments have been tabled by individual representatives. The Economic Committee adopted a codification amendment, which was supported by the Government. Therefore, in closing the debate, I thank the Economic Committee and the Legislative Committee for their work and ask the Honourable Parliament to support the motion. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-27-263	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Interventions by Members shall take place within the time-frame on which the agenda is to take place. I'll see if anyone wants to live with that. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application, so the debate is closed. [[For signal:]] The author indicates that he does not wish to make use of the option. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the implementation of Act C of 2015 on Hungary's central budget for 2016 and the discussion of the summary amendment follow. The government referral is T/17578. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. First, the position of the Committee on Budgets and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 60-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs, notary, rapporteur of the committee, within a maximum period of 30 minutes.
u2017-11-27-264	Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Dear House, The bill on the closure of the 2016 central budget was submitted on 29 September and the general debate took place on 19 October. The Committee on Budgets, as a designated committee, held a detailed debate at its meeting on 15 November, and, of course, the other standing committees of Parliament and the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary also joined the proposal. In my speech, I will draw up a summary opinion as a majority opinion. We have established that almost all the committees agreed that the bill complies with the House Rule 44. The content and form of the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article. No amendments have been tabled. Only the Committee on Budgets tabled an amendment which could be called more technical. This is to the effect that the church maintenance staff carrying out the public education tasks are entitled to the same state aid as the state and local government maintainers, as provided for in the amendment. I would like to present the majority positions of the committees. In those places where the committees have not delivered such an opinion, I will not repeat that the committees have agreed to submit them according to the house rules. The majority opinion of the Committee on Budgets: in terms of macroeconomic indicators, we closed 2016 with 2.2 percent economic growth, which is a performance above the average level of the EU. The general government deficit in line with the EU methodology was achieved at 1.9 percent, while the gross government debt-to-GDP ratio decreased from 74,7 percent in 2015 to 73,9 percent in 2015. It is pleased that the structure of the Hungarian government debt has also been transformed. The foreign exchange ratio decreased from 52 per cent at the end of 2011 to 29 per cent and the foreign creditors from 65 per cent to 42 per cent. [[18.20]] the content and form requirements set out in paragraph 1 of this Article. No amendments have been tabled. Only the Committee on Budgets tabled an amendment which could be called more technical. This is to the effect that the church maintenance staff carrying out the public education tasks are entitled to the same state aid as the state and local government maintainers, as provided for in the amendment. I would like to present the majority positions of the committees. In those places where the committees have not delivered such an opinion, I will not repeat that the committees have agreed to submit them according to the house rules. The majority opinion of the Committee on Budgets: in terms of macroeconomic indicators, we closed 2016 with 2.2 percent economic growth, which is a performance above the average level of the EU. The general government deficit in line with the EU methodology was achieved at 1.9 percent, while the gross government debt-to-GDP ratio decreased from 74,7 percent in 2015 to 73,9 percent in 2015. It is pleased that the structure of the Hungarian government debt has also been transformed. The foreign exchange ratio decreased from 52 per cent at the end of 2011 to 29 per cent and the foreign creditors from 65 per cent to 42 per cent.(18.20) This contributed to a reduction in the country's foreign exchange exposure and external vulnerability. The stability of public finances is well demonstrated by the fact that the amending budget took place on a total of one occasion in 2016. In this amendment, the government proposed HUF 420 billion in additional funding for education, support for families, economic development, rural development, agricultural support and the management of mass immigration. It is important to point out that in the previous year, all three large credit rating agencies have added to our country's new investment category, which has made debt financing even more stable. The improved income situation of households increases consumption, which was 4.2 percent in 2016. This is also due to the fact that more and more people have jobs. The number of employees increased by 3.4 percent last year, and the activity rate reached 70 percent. Exports remain decisive, as shown by the record level of trade surplus in the previous year. Overall, in the light of macroeconomic developments and facts, it can be concluded that in 2016 the main sectors of the Hungarian economy were strengthened, while the balance indicators remained excellent. The Committee on Culture did not add a separate opinion. Opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs: the integration of classical diplomatic, foreign economic and cultural diplomatic tasks in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade made it possible to respond more quickly in 2016, and the need for foreign market success and Hungarian culture and education increased. The Ministry's consular service has been professional in the performance of its advocacy tasks, including dealing with tragic events such as the problems facing Europe due to mass illegal migration. Unfortunately, the terrorist attacks also claimed a Hungarian sacrifice in 2016. The establishment of a single foreign economic management system has been completed, the number of foreign economic attachées has increased to 145, and the number of offices opened by the Hungarian National Trading House has increased to 48, as a result of the projects supported by the National Investment Agency will create nearly 18 thousand new jobs by 2020 with an investment of 3.2 billion euros. In 2016, the Ministry managed 235 billion forints, of which 74 billion were paid for the operation of a diplomatic and consular network of 123 foreign representations. The opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development: in the current EU cycle there are HUF 2800 billion for nature and environmental purposes, which is HUF 500 billion more than in the previous EU cycle. The environmental programmes of the previous EU cycle have been completed by 2016 and the new cycle programmes have not yet entered the accounting period. As a result, environmental expenditure in 2016 is seen as a decrease compared to previous years. In order to improve environmentally friendly transport, significant public transport and bicycle roads have been developed. The tax and tax systems have encouraged the uptake of environmentally friendly private and corporate vehicles. The majority opinion of the Economic Committee: the law on the implementation of the 2016 budget clearly shows that the objectives set after 2010 have been met. Based on the reserves in the labour market, growth has been achieved in the domestic economy, resulting in a lasting expansion. This continuous growth has been achieved while the balance indicators have also been well achieved. The most important economic policy developments in 2016 include the November wage agreement concluded with employers' and employees' interest representatives. This agreement will contribute to the expansion of the supply of the domestic labour market in the coming years, together with an increase in the willingness to work, an increase in the minimum wage and a guaranteed minimum wage, together with a reduction in the employer's tax burden and the corporate tax rate. As a result of government measures, the activity rate reached 70.1 per cent, with employment growth and unemployment rate falling to 5.1 per cent. Within domestic demand, household consumption expenditure increased faster than the projected 3.6 percent increase by 4.2 percent. More than expected growth was driven by a number of factors, on the one hand, the dynamic growth in employment continued and, on the other hand, due to low inflation, real wages increased, which also helped to boost domestic demand. The significant increase in the real economic surplus was also reflected in the current balance of payments, after a 3.5 per cent surplus in 2015, an activity of 6.1 per cent was created in 2016. External financing capacity reached 6.2 percent of GDP in 2016. Due to the significant net external financing capacity, Hungary's net foreign debt relative to the national gross product decreased from 24.9 per cent at the end of 2015 to 19.2 per cent by the end of 2016. The 3.4 percent increase in Hungarian exports exceeded the growth rate of imports last year. The external trade surplus reached record heights last year, and this contributed significantly to growth. The Committees of National Security, Defence and Hungarian Nationalities did not add a special opinion to the bill. The majority opinion of the Committee on Agriculture: agricultural output at current prices was 5.3 percent higher than in the previous year, with a record once again after the excellent results of previous years. A significant proportion of the products produced were aimed at foreign markets, so exports exceeded EUR 8 billion, thus setting the second best agricultural export result ever. Plant production was the engine of growth, but livestock farming was also able to contribute to it. Sunflower, rape, soya, barley, and corn produced the highest yields of all time, and the yield of wheat reached a peak of 28 years. These results are due both to favourable weather conditions and to outstanding technical standards in the sector. Last year there were signs of stabilisation in the livestock sector: the pig and cattle sectors closed the year with growth. Milk production has also increased slightly. Overall, the biggest increase was in the poultry sector, but unfortunately this increase was crushed by the outbreak of avian influenza at the end of the year. The continued VAT reductions since 2014 have had a significant impact on livestock production. From 1 January 2016, the overall sales tax on pig meat decreased from 27 to 5 per cent, resulting in the VAT reduction covering the whole pig-product track, improving the performance of the sector. Employment has also increased in agriculture, with an increase of nearly 14 thousand people in the sector, thus the share of agriculture has increased to 5 percent of the total employment of the national economy. Aid has an important role to play in the performance of the sector. In this respect, payments from national sources have a budgetary role to play. In any event, the government's main sectoral decisions should be mentioned that, following preparations in 2015, the former Bábolna Nemzeti Ménesbirtok Kft. and Mezőhegyi Állami Ménes Lórásztő and Értésítő Kft will continue to operate in the form of budgetary organ management from 1 January 2016. [[18.30]] In the middle of the year, steps were taken to establish the Mezőhegyes National Ménes estates and the Farm of Education. The concept of agricultural vocational training of Samuel Tessedi has also been adopted, which also defines the transformation of the system of vocational training in the agricultural and food sectors. There was no special opinion from the Welfare Committee. The majority opinion of the Committee on National Inclusion. Instead of the country's budget, the government implemented the nation's budget, as we have never provided such support to the Hungarians abroad. The most important development is that, in addition to strengthening identity, we finally managed to take serious steps in 2016 to ensure that Hungarians from abroad thrive in their homeland. He continued the thematic years of the State Secretariat for National Policy with the development of businesses. Within the framework of the Hungarian Year of Entrepreneurs from abroad, the network of Hungarian young entrepreneurs from abroad was established. With the help of the HUF 1 billion programme, 117 start-up entrepreneurs received development funding in addition to a number of professional training courses and advice. However, the State Secretariat continued to renew the Hungarian vocational training abroad, and thanks to the grants, 66 equipped workshops and schools were created. Last year, with the supervision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the multi-annual, large-scale economic development programmes in the Carpathian Basin were launched to give new impetus to the Hungarian populated areas. Last year we contributed to the development of some 20 thousand Hungarian businesses in Vojvodina and Transcarpathia. This year, the implementation of the development plans will also be launched in the other Hungarian regions. The continuous renewal of the Hungarian educational institutions continued, and the preschool development programme in the Carpathian Basin was launched. Helping the crisis situation of the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia in 2016, we continued and expanded the social programs to help Hungarian teachers, church people, health workers stay at home, and the livelihood of Hungarian families. Last year we contributed 2.4 billion HUF to the Hungarian future in Transcarpathia. In order to strengthen Hungarian organizations operating in diaspora and sporadics, we implemented the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme and the Petőfi Sándor programme in 2016, under which 150 scholarships contributed to the construction of Hungarian communities. In 2016 we supported the operation and programmes of around 88 Hungarian youth organisations from abroad, out of HUF 50 million. In addition to the functioning of the institutional system, we also wanted to play a key role in preserving values and traditions in the outside last year. Thanks to last year's continuation of the Mikes Kelemen program, new emigratory legacy could return home, and during the Márton Áron Memorial Year, a number of events took place in which we strengthened the links between Hungary by remembering the Bishop of Transylvania. On this basis, we have managed to open a new chapter in national policy in 2016, as a number of new programmes could be launched in addition to increasing resources. The Judicial Committee did not provide a separate opinion either. I'm giving the majority opinion of the Enterprise Development Committee. The government continues to pursue the economic policy goals set at the beginning of its government cycle. Employment on an increasing path, our retail and tourism indicators are increasing, and we are also keeping the level of budget deficits at a low level. Overall, it can therefore be concluded that, as a result of rational and responsible government policy, Hungary can be maintained in the long term by means of development. This will not only mean tangible, tangible positive changes in economic indicators, but also directly on the side of families and businesses, and it will already mean positive changes. The majority opinion of the Committee on European Affairs. According to the Committee, the implementation of the budget continued to meet the main conditions of the Maastricht criteria in 2016, the general government deficit of less than 3% of the total national product and the declining government debt in proportion to the total national product. For EU grants, the total amount of HUF 2097 billion was paid to the beneficiaries. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. I would ask you to give your vote in favour of the bill on the basis of the Committee's opinions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-27-265	Thank you, Mr Lajos Szűcs, notary, for the majority position of the Committee on Budgets. Minority opinions will now be presented in a total of 30 minutes' time frame; two have indicated. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter.
u2017-11-27-266	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State! In 2016, the budgetary philosophy of the Orbán government was completed. This means increasingly irresponsible and opaque farming. Responsible for spending public money, irresponsible for the future in spending EU funds, and irresponsible for the future in managing our own resources. The functioning of large public service systems will therefore continue to deteriorate. The transparency and control of the budget have been drastically reduced as they have allowed for transfers within chapters and free distribution of reserves. This happened several times, for example, in December 2016, when 200 billion forints were distributed out of the rest, largely to the churches. Of course, only the loyal churches had that money. This means that the budget, thanks to its early adoption, must be continuously carved, quasi-substitution budgets should be kept. Therefore, this cannot be considered a solid basis, but as some sort of line leader. The important aspect of irresponsibleness is the way you relate to EU and, by the way, domestic development resources. They regard it as a mere prey, which, as it were, is due to you for your sacrifice on behalf of the country. Accordingly, these resources are often taken home, stolen, spent on their own and friendly projects. They're skimming public procurements, castles, yachts, estates from sources for people. It is irresponsible to spend EU money because these funds are not for future development. Even when it comes to aid for education or innovation, there is no proper control, there is no proper expertise or feedback behind it. The country's human capital is not increasing, even the money for education is being spent. At the beginning of 2016, we were given a taste of what is waiting for the country after 2018 because of the irresponsible economic policy of Fidesz and the sudden decline in EU money. We remember that GDP decreased in the first quarter. The Fidesz governments wasted two Marshall plans of capital support without strengthening the Hungarian economy or its human and natural foundations. Responsible and dilettious fiscal policy is also evident in other areas. While they have been promising to cut red tape since 2010, Mr. Secretary of State has admitted that they have failed to do so. Of course, you didn't have to say that, because we've already seen that the Prime Minister's and other government water heads are only gaining weight, and they're absorbing tens and hundreds of billions more. I could also take as an example the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, where it is clear that the domestic population is growing to some amazing extent every year, while the number of foreign representations will now be almost a fraction, which I think is almost unprecedented in the world, so it can be seen that they are only using that ministry as a buddy paying place. In 2016, the privatisation of state land was irresponsible and assassination for the future. In the past, 10 percent of the Hungarian agricultural land was in the hands of the state. That was a significant part of what they played out for their own circle of friends. Finally, irresponsibleness to the future also showed that the 2016 budget did not include steps that could have raised deteriorating public services such as health, education and transport. And the government has done nothing to address the biggest problem, the low wage and the resulting poverty of workers, and on the other hand, emigration and labour shortages, even though they would have had the opportunity to correct it. The LMP itself also submitted its proposals for amending the budget in 2016, these amendments indicated what the LMP considered the most important thing to do to raise the country and what funds should be transferred to. From 2018, these will be implemented by the LMP. [[18.40]] Today, the basic task of making a living in Hungary is to pay decent wages for decent work. Today, unfortunately, it is a desire for millions, even though they work eight hours a day, they cannot support themselves or their families. This is an untenable condition, and it is necessary to ensure that a decent living can also be made of wages. Raising net wages at social level is the most important and effective instrument against workers' poverty. This can be achieved by reducing personal income tax in a band and reducing contributions. If the LMP proposes that the minimum wage will be tax-free and then the tax will be reduced to the average wage for everyone, then the net income of minimum wage earners will increase by 30 percent and the average wager by 20 percent - this means tens of thousands of forints per person per month. In the LMP Action Plan, workers' poverty eradication is also aimed at raising long-standing public service wages in education, health, social services and municipalities, reducing VAT on basic foods and raising family allowances. Family allowances under subjective law are known to play a major role in reducing poverty and child poverty, and family allowances have not increased by a single HUF since 2008. The wage increases we are proposing can reduce the other big problem, migration, and slow down the elimination of the countryside. This would be an opportunity to invest in the future by bringing together education, health, public transport, the environment and other public services in a 21st century. Building a framework for society and the economy of the century, building on this, to strengthen a modern, competitive economy, primarily based on local and domestic resources. In 2016, the LMP's amendment proposals aimed at restoring the resources of education and health, reducing the VAT on public transport, renovating rural lower roads, setting up the Community Fund for Economic Development and the Green Investment Fund, the environmental remediation programme, supporting national parks and measures to break down corruption. These proposals will also be implemented after the change of regime in 2018, and we cannot support the adoption of the accounts. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-11-27-267	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Márta Demeter. Dear Parliament, I will ask the rapporteur, since there will be no more Commission opinions on whether he wishes to comment now. [[Péter Benő Banai says no.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the German ethnic advocate Ritter Imre, rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary related to the debate.
u2017-11-27-268	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschläges Nr. T/17578. über die Durchführung des Haushaltsgesetzes für Jahr 2016, Nr. C. aus Jahr 2015 im Zusammenhang mit den Nationalitäten übergreifende Teilen erörtere. Mr President, Dear House, As a minority spokesperson invited by the committee representing Hungarian ethnicities, I would like to inform you that the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary, as a related committee, discussed at its meeting on 7 November 2017 the implementation of Act C of 2015 on Hungary's central budget for 2016 T/17578. Law No 44-45 and its detailed discussion was conducted in the House Rules. In accordance with the provisions of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary unanimously concluded that the legislative proposal complies with the provisions of house rules 44. Paragraph 1 of this Article. In addition, allow me, on my behalf, as well as on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to state the facts that have already been mentioned in the speeches of previous years in relation to the item on the agenda. In particular, the ethnicities in Hungary started from a very low level in 2014 and sometimes from a humiliating situation, but the fate of the ethnic groups in Hungary has changed a lot in the last three and a half years. This positive change is also largely the result of the 13 spokespersons delegated by indigenous nationalities to the Hungarian National Assembly, but of course it is mainly due to the positive decisions of the government, government factions, support for opposition groups and independent representatives, so the positive attitude of full Hungarian politics in relation to Hungarian ethnicities. As a result, from the earlier unfair situation, we have reached the point that compared to the 2014 budget support of less than HUF 4 billion, the amount of subsidies affecting 13 Hungarian nationalities has already increased by nearly HUF 10.5 billion and by more than two and a half times in the 2018 Budget Act. This was accompanied by a separate one-off investment framework of 400 million for the amendment of the 2016 Central Budget Act. In addition to a significant increase in the amount of national minority subsidies, we have been able to make significant progress with legislative amendments favourable to the Hungarian nationalities or by making several months forward the publication, evaluation and payment of national minority applications, which is crucial for the functioning of national minority organisations, their planning, predictability and the provision of liquidity at all times. On this basis, although I have already said it in the general debate of almost all four budgetary laws, I am happy to recapture it in the whole four-year cycle: we would like to thank the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Parliament, on behalf of the 13 nationalities living in Hungary, for the increase in minority support throughout the cycle, for the positive changes in Hungarian politics in relation to the ethnicities living in Hungary. It can be said with a good heart and sincerity, because this change is on a scale that has not been experienced in the last eight decades. In particular, we thank all parliamentary groups for taking matters of nationalities living in Hungary, regardless of political affiliation, out of the topics of daily - often unworthy and rude - political battles, and in almost all cases, the pre-agreed legislative amendments initiated by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities were unanimously adopted. Please continue to maintain this good habit. Of course, all these positive, indeed historical, changes could not solve the failure of eight to ten decades, but we know that this four-year cycle has made a tremendous progress in the recognition of Hungarian nationalities, as well as by the Hungarian government and parliament, which provides a good basis for further successful work, for the encouraging future of Hungarian nationalities. On this basis, we ask Parliament to adopt the bill. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-27-269	Thank you for the German ethnic advocate Ritter Imre's speech. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I would like to ask who would like to take advantage of the opportunity to make comments. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. [[18.50]] Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'm gonna ask the author... or I'm not gonna ask, because I can see how he's getting ready. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-27-270	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think, in terms of last year's report, we can say that Hungary had a successful year behind it. Why do I say that? Because the implementation of the 2016 budget and the economic processes in 2016 can be characterised, on the one hand, in terms of macroeconomic figures, and, on the other hand, in terms of what last year has brought to individual citizens, what it has brought to Hungarian families. Let me evaluate last year in these two respects very briefly. As Lajos Szűcs, vice-president of the Committee on Budgets said, last year the Hungarian economy expanded by 2.2 percent above the average growth in the European Union. We are talking about a year that is, in terms of European Union resources, a year with holes, and I think that last year's report has confirmed that the Hungarian economy can grow without European Union funds. Of course, using EU funds intelligently and well can improve our growth potential. In addition to growth, our equilibrium indicators have been very positive, as not only the current account has shown a significant amount of activity, but the general government deficit has reached a level of 1.9 per cent below the deficit target, despite the inter-annual extra expenditure. As a result of growth and low deficits, our public debt has fallen in a unique way from 28 Member States of the European Union every year since 2011, i.e. we are the only country of the Member States who has been able to say that since 2011. As a matter of question, how these positive figures developed, whether or not they had to be touched by the budget. Márta Demeter said in a minority opinion that it was irresponsible, that the budget had to be touched several times; at the same time, she talked about the fact that education and healthcare did not benefit from a releasing resource. I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Parliament to the fact that the budget law had to be amended once, as Vice-President Lajos Szűcs said. This amendment allowed additional expenditure to be used in addition to additional revenues, for example for education and health purposes. At the end of the year, the favourable budgetary situation allowed the free resources to be allocated under the mandate of the Public Finance Act to additional expenditure in addition to meeting the budget deficit target, for example for educational purposes. Public education institutions could be built on the basis of the end-of-year funding, many PPP projects have been replaced by higher education institutions, and we should not forget the additional operational funding of health institutions. If I mentioned these areas and they talked about what the government had done in connection with the wage catch-up, then these two areas fell into the wide circle where wage increases took place. It is recalled that this budgetary implementation allowed two major agreements to take place in the second half of last year. One is the six-year wage agreement under which the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage increase significantly from 2017 and 18 in addition to the reduction of the social contribution tax, but last year in the health sector an agreement has already been reached, according to which nurses' wages have increased on average by 26,5 percent since November. And this cycle, if we've been looking at the government cycle since 2010, is not the first wage increase. This wage increase, which in health care - I repeat - meant an average increase of 26,5 per cent for nurses, continued in 2017 and continued in 2018. I therefore think that in these areas, as in other public service areas, there was an additional source, which, thanks to the performance of the Hungarian economy, could be achieved with a favourable number of sound public finances. As Imre Ritter said, Hungarian nationalities could also manage additional resources, as has been said in the majority opinions, and Hungarians across the border could also receive unprecedented support. In other words, if I have to evaluate last year in terms of the second aspect, then I can say that the favourable macroeconomic figures have made progress in virtually all areas. Overall actions increased by 7.8 percent, and this allowed for a 7.4 percent increase in real wages thanks to 0.4 percent inflation. This real wage increase marked not only last year and marked previous years, but we can now say that it also characterizes 2017 and we have good reason to believe that this real wage increase can continue in 2018 with the continuation of equilibrium indicators. So I think that 2016 was once again a successful year in terms of numbers and everyday life. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept this closing bill proposal, which contains only one amendment compared to the submission, as has been said: it allows for significant surpluses for church maintenance precisely due to increasing educational expenditure. I think that the government figures seen in 2016 can continue in the years 2017 and 18, and I think that we hope to be able to report positive developments in 2017 as well. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-27-271	Thank you, Secretary of State Banai. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage. The Commission's reports on the amendment of law and certain related laws and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/1802. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-11-27-272	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee is subject to provisions 46. LXIV of 2001 on the protection of cultural heritage. T/1802 on the amendment of Act T/1802 and certain related laws Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 4. By 22 votes in favour, 8 votes against. The 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage. The amendment of the Act is primarily aimed at simplification, reduction of bureaucracy and the creation of legislation that has been lacking so far. Among the aims of this bill is to ensure that protected cultural goods become public property as much as possible, as this is the best way to ensure that these cultural objects remain for Hungarians. For this purpose, the proposal broadens the state's pre-emptive right. Thus, it is possible for public collections and institutions implementing national castle and castle programmes to acquire this method. Archaeological tasks have been separated from physical earthwork during previous amendments. In the future, not only preventative archaeological explorations, but also large investments under the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage can only be carried out by museums, which can be replaced only by public and municipal institutions eligible for exploration. This decision will allow for a two-tier simplification of the complex multi-level system for the provision of archeological tasks. [[19.00]] The Legislative Committee has accepted a large majority of the Commission's amendment closing the detailed debate, which contained in a significant part codification clarifications. Among the substantive provisions of the Legislative Committee's own amendment proposal, it should be pointed out that it gives the priority National Memorial Committee the power to propose and deliver opinions in the preparation of the relevant Government Decree. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, the aim of the proposal is to simplify regulation and procedures, reduce bureaucratic burdens and complement areas of regulation that have so far been lacking. In view of what has been said, I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill in voting. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-27-273	Thank you, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy.
u2017-11-27-274	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, We are witnessing a good debate this evening, because the issue of archaeology as a matter to be regulated usually has to be addressed when the economy is spinning, and therefore there are archaeological works that need to be carried out. We have seen economic expansion in Hungary for seven years now, as has been said in the previous budget debate, which justifies this issue coming before the Parliament. Allow me first to thank you for the supporting professional comments made in the Commission's and professional debates and to remove the doubts expressed during the final debate on whether there is enough professional archaeological capacity in Hungary to coordinate this work. As the government's author, he decided not by accident to split the scope of the archeological task. On the one hand, he wants to refer the effective archaeological work requiring archaeological expertise to the scope of museums, thus ensuring that private interests are never able to overcome the public interest in this area. The government has taken a position before the Parliament, which has not only political but also significant professional support, since the position of the Hungarian Archaeologist Association is in line with the proposal that you have heard during the debate. Based on the government's ideas - for this we ask for the support of the National Assembly tomorrow - archeological works will therefore be provided within the framework of various county museums and the Hungarian National Museum. With regard to the expansion of the economy and as a means of economic support, we would like local construction companies to be able to join in, and where it is not an archaeological work, but a supporter or supporter of this, these small companies can indeed participate in these investments, so that the government can, through public investment, encourage small Hungarian SMEs to get an order and work. The question raised in the Commission's debate is whether there is sufficient capacity within the framework of the Hungarian National Museum. That is why I would like to reassure everyone here that the museum's medium-term plans include the creation of an archaeological apparatus of 70 persons, which is an appropriate guarantee that if county museums do not have enough archaeological capacity to carry out a job, because today large infrastructure investments are taking place in almost all areas of the country, which can only be completed after archaeological works, the Hungarian National Museum can provide them with this auxiliary activity. As a result, the rapid implementation of an investment should not jeopardise the full exploration and proper management of archaeological findings in the area. With this law, I think the government once again believes that, in addition to applying investment considerations, it considers archaeology and heritage protection matters to be a matter of paramount importance. It is sufficient to review the developments, the reconstructions that have taken place in Budapest or in the countryside. If we just step outside the Parliament building, the rehabilitation of Kossuth tér can be regarded as such an investment, which was not an archaeological investment, but an investment in the conservation of heritage, where the current government, the third Orbán government, managed to restore the nation's main square from the national parking lot. The same approach is seen in numerous other developments, from the Orchestra to the Budapest Castle, through investments in other rural castles and mansions for public purposes. I think that this bill gives the Hungarian government the opportunity to enforce the strict rules of archaeology at the same time, to bow down to the values of the past, by properly caring for and preserving them for posterity, and to make a proposal that will support investment in the future, so that Hungarian economic growth can surpass the ambitious numbers of previous years. And tomorrow, for this law, in the spirit of these thoughts, the government asks for the support of the Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-27-275	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Csepreghy, for your speech. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that, at the end of the debate, you will have 5 minutes and 15 seconds to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I'll ask if anyone wants to take this opportunity. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I do not think the rapporteur, Secretary of State Csepreghy, would like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 2015 CXLIII on public procurement. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. T/18307 submitted by MEPs János Lázár, Lajos Kósa, Mónika Dunai and Sándor Hadházy Fidesz. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the authors, I would like to ask Mrs Mónika Dunai if she wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai.
u2017-11-27-276	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the representatives of the bill, on behalf of the authors, for comments, proposals and subsidies at various stages of the debate, and I ask that, after today's debate, you support the proposal in the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-27-277	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy.
u2017-11-27-278	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, The issue of public procurement is a debate that goes back to Parliament several times each year or, where appropriate, within a session, in order to give the government of the time the opportunity to support economic growth through public investment. Another debate, which is also related to the issue of public procurement, is how and how the government can account for the public funds spent to voters through MPs, whether they are European Union development funds or the resources provided by the Hungarian budget.Since 2010, the Public Procurement Act has been amended in these two directions: how a growing number of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary can participate in public investment and how the government can fully guarantee transparency. The current amendment concerns this area as it introduces the e-procurement system well ahead of the deadline decided by the European Commission, the European Parliament and the European Community. [[19.10]] We are doing this in order not only to prove that the use of public funds does indeed serve the best possible value for money, but also to ensure that those who want to make sure of this can, or do not have, a small and medium-sized enterprise operating in Hungary who, due to lack of information, cannot access the system of public procurement. However, it is always important, and the governance of the last seven years has been absolutely marked by the dialogue that has taken place with the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, who, mentioning the interests of the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises sector as a potential bidder sector, asked the government to introduce the operating practices of e-procurement on a compulsory basis by 15 April 2018 instead of the deadline at the end of December 2017. In response to this economic issue, the government has taken the decision and asks the Parliament's mandate that, although we have completed the IT background of the electronic procurement system, we have the state apparatus who can handle it, and we will set this institutional system in order from 1 January 2018, but until 15 April this should be an optional right for contracting authorities to operate the procurement procedures through this system or through a paper system already known by the tenderers. The mandatory deadline would extend to 15 April, which is still nearly half a year earlier than what the European Union has set for the Member States, so Hungary is once again one of the first to fulfil an obligation to ensure that citizens, companies and all players in the European Community are properly guaranteed to have access to these public investments for all small and medium-sized enterprises and to guarantee the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises and the Hungarian economy as a whole. I think that there can be a lot of uncoordinated debates in Parliament, whether journalists, opposition journalists or representatives can receive up-to-date information in the electronic procurement system, let us add, data that are still available to everyone with a smaller follow-up, since electronic public procurement only settles and organizes the scope of public procurement documentation. So the system of public procurement in this respect will become even more public, even more transparent and we hope that it will become even more a system of support for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. For this, the government will ask for the support of the Parliament tomorrow. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-27-279	Thank you, Secretary of State Csepreghy. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. The speakers will now take part in the time-frames on the agenda on the table. I'll ask if anyone wants to make a comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed, and I think the representative of the government has said what he has to say. I'll ask Mónika Dunai if she wants to supplement this. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Now, Honourable Parliament, it is up to the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws to improve the competitiveness of agriculture and the debate on the summarised amendment proposal. T/1809 submitted by the representatives of Balázs Győrffy, Sándor Font, István Jakab and László Vécsey Fidesz. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-11-27-280	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 23 November 2017, the Legislative Committee discussed bill No 18099 amending certain laws to improve the competitiveness of agriculture. The summary amendment and the summary report were adopted by the Committee by 24 votes to four, with two abstentions. The summarised amendment contains the proposals of the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee. The proposed bill amends six legislative proposals, such as the Water Management Act; the Wildlife Protection, Wildlife Management and Hunting Law; the Land Protection Act; the Forest, Forest Protection and Forestry Law; the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food and Rural Development Act; and the amendment of the Law on Certain Issues of the Organisation of Agricultural Markets and Producer Interbranch Organisations. The common aim of the amendment of the above-mentioned legislation is to reduce administrative burdens, to provide certain advantages and to encourage and to help farmers to compete. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that the bill was discussed during the general debate, but I am referring to the proposal of the TAB amendment, which actually confirms the rule of conflict of interest that the chamber official cannot be the leader of a political party. In view of this, I ask you to support the adoption of the bill tomorrow with your votes to help those working in agriculture. Thank you for listening.
u2017-11-27-281	Thank you, Congressman Vas Imre. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Balázs Győrffy, who is present on behalf of the authors, if he wishes to present his opinion. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-27-282	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, During the general debate, it has already been pointed out that the bill contains six amendments to the law on the competitiveness of agriculture, which Mr Vas has listed in a row, and let me not repeat them. The bill has been discussed in the last two weeks, before the Legislative Committee, by the Committee on Sustainable Development and the Committee on Agriculture. The first committee did not make any amendments, but the Committee on Agriculture did so several times. I would like to present the most important of these to you in the following section. First of all, it was amended to set the limit on the exemption from water supply contributions. On the one hand, we have limited the users of groundwater and groundwater and, on the other hand, we have also modified the quota volume per hectare and set the free quota in 4 thousand cubic metres, and in the case of water use for irrigation, 400 thousand cubic metres per water rights permit. During the general debate, we have dealt with the comments made by several factions that not only a professional hunter should have the opportunity to use night vision binoculars, and I would like to stress that it is not a target telescope, so it is not what you look into when you shoot, but what you look at with both hands when you try to find something. So we allowed the search scope to be used by sports hunters and not just during the game-fighting hunt. The rules on land-protection aid have also been slightly amended. According to this, if the land is permitted to be used for other purposes for the construction of a low-performance power plant, the obligation to pay contributions should now not only be waived in the case of pending cases, but also, on the basis of decisions which have become final after 23 June 2017, the unpaid contribution may be included. There has also been a change in the rules on the organisation of agricultural product markets, especially given the fact that in the meantime it has become certain that the European Union is planning legislation on this subject, so we are preparing a comprehensive amendment in this area. This is expected to be logical in view of EU legislation, which will be published at the beginning of 2018, since we believe that it is not necessarily sensible to make legislation for a six-month period. [[19.20]] During the general debate, my fellow Member Zoltán Gőgös commented that the rules on conflicts of interest for NAK could be a little bit more circumstantial. I would like to report - although my fellow Member is not here, Haughty - that the promise I made to him that we will examine this and that we will break it down a little, we have kept it. In addition, the Commission's amendment closing the in-depth debate included technical amendments and the 2016 CL on the General Administrative Regulation. It also includes amendments to ensure consistency with the law. Because of these points, both the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee supported our proposal. I would ask my fellow Members to commit themselves to improving the competitiveness of agriculture by pressing the yes button tomorrow. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-11-27-283	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm going to ask if the Secretary of State wishes to comment on behalf of the government. [[On Dr. István Nagy's signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-27-284	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll be very brief. The Government supports the amendments presented and calls on this House to support it with its votes in the decision-making process tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-11-27-285	Thank you very much, Secretary of State István Nagy. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Agriculture did not present a rapporteur, and as I see it, there will be no minority opinion either, because the representative of the opinion is not in the Chamber. Dear Parliament, Representatives' speeches will follow in the time frame on the agenda. I will ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Győrffy whether he is making use of the opportunity to speak on behalf of the authors. [[Balázs Győrffy: No, thank you.]] He told me everything. Thank you. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on legislative amendments to the extension of young people's start-up support and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/17997. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-11-27-286	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee is the House Rules 46. T/1799 on the amendments to the law on the extension of early life support for young people. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Parliament's resolution of 10/2014 on certain house rules. By 25 votes in favour, with 6 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, Motivated by the responsibility for the future of the Hungarian nation, the responsibility for increasing the chances of disadvantaged people, for the purpose of providing a financial basis for the start-up of young people, the National Assembly established the 2005 CLXX on the support for young people's lives. Law. Under the provisions of the law, the Hungarian State grants support to all children born after 31 December 2005 for the purpose of providing a financial basis for the start of a young adult's own life. There is no need for a separate application for start-up support, the Hungarian Treasury automatically opens an account for the child and places the amount of the aid without any special request. The purpose of this bill, which has been submitted and is now being discussed, is to include Hungarian children who do not live in Hungary as part of the action plan to encourage children to start their lives and open the Start account. Accordingly, the draft law amends, in particular, certain provisions of the Law on the Promotion of Young People's Life. In addition to extending the range of rightholders, this draft also includes other clarification and simplification amendments, in most cases linked to the reporting process. The Legislative Committee accepted the Commission's amendment closing the in-depth debate, which contained in a significant part codification clarifications. A change in the concept of natural identity data should be highlighted as a matter of substance and the requirement that the child's natural identity data can only be processed by the account manager in order to maintain the Start account opened for the child and to carry out his related tasks. The Legislative Committee has not tabled its own amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, the aim of the proposal is also to encourage children among Hungarians living outside our borders. In the interests of this noble aim, I would ask my fellow Members to support the proposal in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-11-27-287	Thank you, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I will ask the Secretary of State, Ágnes Hornung, who is present on behalf of the authors, if you would like to comment now. [[Agnes Hornung on Anna's signal:]] I give you the floor. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2017-11-27-288	Thank you very much, Mr President, and also for the presentation of this proposal and the presentation of what has been said in the Legislative Committee. All I would add to this is that there have been some technical problems with the submission, so a correction will be required, so we will probably submit an amending proposal before the final vote. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-27-289	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Welfare Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. The time frame is shown on the display. I'll ask if anyone wants to take that opportunity. [[There's no candidate.]] No report. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I suppose, on behalf of the authors, Madam Secretary of State has said all that is necessary. [[Anna Hornung: Yes.]] Thank you very much. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the transitional rules for penalties for administrative infringements and the amendment of certain laws and repealing certain acts in the context of the reform of administrative procedural law and the discussion of the draft amending proposal will follow. The government referral is T/18298. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-11-27-290	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 23 November 2017, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/18298 on the transitional rules for penalties for administrative infringements and amending certain laws relating to the reform of administrative procedures and repealing certain laws. Bill No. 1. [[19.30]] The summary amendment and the summary report were adopted by the Committee by 24 votes to six, with one abstention. The summary amendment proposal contains the legislative committee's proposals for amendments. To sum up the proposal, it can basically be grouped around four themes and contains rules on the subject. The 2016 CL on the General Administrative Regulation. law does not contain any material provisions, as it is purely a code of procedure. Along the regulatory logic, a new bill will be drawn up in order to include a uniform and coherent system of sanctions in the current law on the general rules of administrative procedures and services. CXXV of 2017 on sanctions for administrative infringements However, the entry into force of Law 1 January 2019 is necessary for this purpose. the period between the entry into force of the new law and the entry into force of the new law, i.e. the establishment of a transitional regime for 2018. In the absence of this, the sanctioning activity of the public administration would virtually cease in the one-year period. The main purpose of the amendments relating to the entry into force of the general administrative order is to enable the sector to meet the requirements of Ákr. and to place the necessary procedural rules at a higher level of legal resources than the ministerial decree. This will typically include the establishment or amendment of delegated provisions. The bill also contains other clarifications, which are also intended to eliminate possible problems of coherence in relation to the general administrative order, technical deregulation and certain corrections of certain empty laws and legislative decrees. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that the draft law was discussed during the general debate, but I will mention the amendment of the TAB, which, with most technical, linguistic and codification amendments, is intended to ensure continuity in the application of the law and to give the sector more time to develop the most appropriate sectoral regulatory structure. In view of all this, I ask you to support the adoption of the bill. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-27-291	Thank you, Congressman Vas Imre. I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. The speeches will now take place in the time frame shown on the table. I'll ask if anyone wants to take this opportunity. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, No discussion, but the debate is closed. The rapporteur, Mr Völner, indicated that he did not wish to comment. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on increased criminal protection against sexual violence against children under the age of 12 and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow. T/18275 submitted by the representatives of Gabriella Selmeczi, Róbert Répássy and László Horváth Fidesz. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr László Horváth, rapporteur of the committee. We wish to see Congressman László Horváth's plane. [[A moment's pause.]] Yeah, I got it. The card's not in place. Thank you very much. You have the floor.
u2017-11-27-292	My apologies. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 23 November 2017, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/18275 on increased criminal protection against sexual violence against children under 12 years of age. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. It was supported once again by an exemplary unanimity with 32 votes in favour, without voting against and abstaining. The summarised amendment contains the Commission's proposal to amend the Judicial Committee, which closed the detailed debate, with which the Legislative Committee agreed without any intention of amending it. I would like to point out that this amendment is in line with Mr Gergely Bárándy's intention to amend it and, in view of his arguments in the general debate, it contains additional tightening up. In the event of the adoption of the bill before us, the amendment will, therefore, be punishable by imprisonment from 5 to 20 years, or criminal, if the perpetrator commits sexual coercion by violence or direct threat to life or physical integrity, taking advantage of the inability to defend the person under his authority or influence, to harm the child under the age of 12. This punishment is the same if sexual violence is committed jointly by a number of children under the age of 12, not on the same occasion as a person with a relationship of influence, but on the same occasion, knowing each other's activities. The proposal complies, as has been said, with the requirements set out in the Constitutional Court's decision on this subject and is also suitable for achieving the goal set by the Curia. Dear House, A week ago, on a similar subject, we discussed the bill on the necessary amendment of individual laws to better protect children, which the House accepted the next day, with exemplary and unanimous support, with 98 percent support. The fact is that this short bill has the same purpose, in substance, as this other amendment has already been mentioned, and we agree here, without party affiliation, that child abuse and any violence against children are unacceptable, and that there is no excuse for sex offenders, and that they are justified by the utmost rigour and determination. On this basis, I ask you to support this proposal with your votes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-27-293	Thank you very much, Congressman László Horváth. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author... [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] - or he did. Then do you wish to speak on the part of the government, Mr Secretary of State? (To be indicated:) It says no. The Judicial Committee did not draft a rapporteur. Representatives' speeches will follow, in the time frame on the agenda. I'm asking if anyone wants to take this opportunity. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a signal. [[19.40]] Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. The author, I think, does not take advantage of the opportunity to speak; what he had to say. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain family support and other laws and the summary amendment proposal follow up. Government referral T/1831. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-11-27-294	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed T/18312 on 23 November 2017. The proposed amendment and summary report on the amendment of individual family support and other laws submitted by the Committee with 32 votes in favour, with a unanimous decision. The summarised amendment contains the individual proposals adopted by the People's Welfare Committee, which include the amendment proposed by István Hollik and Sándor Kovács without TAB amendment. The aim of this is, on the one hand, to ensure that the baby package and baby package provided in the framework of a family-friendly country, are free of personal income tax. On the other hand, it would be a great relief for families raising children not to have to prove the fact of child number or singleness on every occasion with an official certificate for textbook support and eating consent. In the case of the adoption of the proposal, the amendment should not be for parents to go to the Hungarian Treasury for their certifications next year, but for the data to be available electronically. The related IT development will operate in the Hungarian State Treasury from 1 January. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is necessary to reiterate that the proposal introduces new support for long-term care providers. This measure means that a parent who takes care of a seriously ill child at home for at least 20 years prior to entitlement to an old-age pension and who has received an increase or a special care premium of one year on the basis of the activity will receive a pension supplement of HUF 50 thousand per month. It is worth noting the background of the measure that it covers parents who care for their severely disabled child, which is due to the fact that the circle receiving the aid can only rely on the State, given that the child was never able to earn a living. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill therefore compensates for the loss of income that they have had to live to care for their persistently ill child, which is why I ask that my fellow Members contribute to the overall consistency of the proposal and its adoption. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-27-295	Thank you, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if the Secretary of State wishes to comment on behalf of the government. [[On the sign of Katalin Veresné Novák:]] You have the floor, Secretary of State Katalin Veresné Novák.
u2017-11-27-296	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. For the sake of family-friendly operation, I'd just like to say two sentences. Thank you very much for the information to the Member, and she has said a number of the elements of our bill. I would just like to point out that we are in favour of both of the amendments, because I think that they are very helpful to families, both if we are able to introduce the 'free' in these packages, and if we do not have the administrative burden for families, parents, which are currently in place when they require different subsidies in schools. So thank you for these amendments and for the government's support. I trust everyone will support our bill. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-27-297	Thank you, Secretary of State Katalin Veresné Novák. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Welfare Committee. The speeches will now take place in the time-frames on the agenda, which are shown on the display. I give the floor to Mr Sebestyén, who will give the opinion of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-11-27-298	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I have one specific question I would like to ask the Secretary of State, and I hope she will answer it. In the committee, we learned that opposition amendments that were born on the basis of the MEOSZ letter and the legitimate criticism of MEOSZ were not supported by the government, and that those who received a care fee or received an increased level of care premium for a longer period, regardless of the kind of family he cared for, could receive this supplement to his pension. They had the same degree of income loss because they cared for their close relatives in their own homes. I cannot accept the explanation that we heard from Mónika Dunai, based on the opinion of the Legislative Committee, that only those who nursed their children were cared for in their own homes, because thus their children have no income to support them in their old age. This means that the government believes that there is no need to provide people with adequate pensions or old age benefits, because it is enough that the few pensions or the few benefits will be supplemented by the earning offspring, so that they can provide a normal life for their parents or grandparents. I think that's an inconclusive argument, and I can't accept that. I still maintain that the criticism in MEOSZ's letter is justified, and so would the addition of those who cared not for their children but for their other close relatives, cared for them in their own homes. If we look not only at morality or spiritual justice but also at material justice, we can say that, because we know very well that by taking on this task, these people did not have to go to the chronic department of the hospital or any other care facility, so they took a very heavy financial burden off the state's shoulders. So it would be fair not only from a moral point of view, but also from a financial point of view, if this benefit was not only due to their child, but also to care for other close relatives in their own homes. I don't understand the government's attitude, and I'd like an answer to that. Thank you very much. [[Dr. László György Lukács applauds.]]
u2017-11-27-299	Thank you, Congressman Cutter Sebestyén. I'll ask if anyone still wants to make a comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. Then I will ask the Secretary of State if she wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On the sign of Katalin Veresné Novák:]] You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2017-11-27-300	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I'd just like to answer your question. Thank you, and I understand this proposal, or this motion. The truth is that this is now an opportunity introduced by this law, which has not existed at all, so there has been absolutely no such support for those who have cared for family members for so long, in this case the children who have been cared for in their homes for a long time. These are very difficult families, and surely the Member knows and shares this opinion. So I think that we have taken a very important step forward with this: that now such a support will appear in the pensions of parents or in addition to their pensions, which is an amount that can be assessed at a monthly level, and at least we can now help families who raise such children in a new way. I understand your proposal, I understand your point of view. I am now asking you to support this step that we have taken in this case, so that we can at least support those who have taken care of their children for a long time in their home. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-27-301	Thank you, Secretary of State Katalin Veresné Novák. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain cultural and sporting laws, as well as certain related laws, and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow up. [[19.50]] Government referral T/18314. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-11-27-302	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee is the House Rules 46. T/18314 on the amendment of certain cultural and sporting laws and certain related laws Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. By 24 votes in favour, 6 against and 2 abstentions. The bill we are discussing now contains ten amendments to the law. Major amendments were made to the MMA Act. On the basis of the proposal, the academic concept is introduced and certain procedural phases of the choice of the ordinary and correspondence member become uniform. In addition to the president of the MMA, the Social Advisory Board will be represented as a strategic and opinion-forming body. It is important and necessary to introduce the artistic benefit, which will be granted to persons aged 65 and over who receive the awards of art. By amending the Act on Performing Arts, puppet theatres are exempted from certain conditions determining the proportion of persons with a higher education degree among employees. The law on public documents, public archives and the protection of private archives, as well as the law on museum institutions, public library provision and public education are also amended. In the case of the public collection area, the amendment clarifies the basic requirements and basic tasks of public libraries, requiring public libraries to prepare the annual work plan and report in the spirit of quality management. Ladies and gentlemen, The Legislative Committee did not submit its own amendment. The Commission's amendment closing the in-depth debate was adopted. The amendment contained only linguistic and codification clarifications. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, the aim of the proposal is to further support and improve the quality of cultural life, as well as the financial appreciation of professionally recognised artists in old age. In the interests of this noble aim, I would ask my fellow Members to support the proposal in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-27-303	Thank you, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Secretary Peter Hoppál.
u2017-11-27-304	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard in the general debate and in the Commission's detailed debate, it is indeed an important package of legislative amendments; overall, as has been said, a package of amendments affecting ten laws. I am pleased that these points, which are largely on cultural issues, have practically not been criticised on the opposition side. At the same time, I think it is natural for the Socialist Party to suggest that amendments to the Academy of Arts always mention that they have objections to the academy. I regret that, at this late hour, there was no one left among the socialist representatives of the benches to share their views on this subject with the plenary on the amendment, the summary amendment. However, I believe that the remaining summary amendments will make a substantial and positive contribution at the end of the detailed debate, and that we can support these proposals as a rapporteur. At the same time, let me make one final comment, Mr President, and this House. I believe that the surplus that is significant in the operation of the Academy of Arts and in the introduction of an artistic allowance at the legal level in cultural life after the amendment of the law is also unattractive from the direction of the honourable Members of the opposition. That is why I am confident that, in the final vote, we can also have the opposition vote in favour of the ruling party. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-27-305	Thank you, Secretary of State Peter Hoppál. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. Interventions by Members shall take place in the time-frame on the agenda as shown on the table. I'll ask if anyone wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I will ask whether Mr State Secretary wishes to take advantage of the opportunity to speak or has just said everything. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. Post-meeting speeches will follow. György László Lukács, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute frame.
u2017-11-27-306	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There is a topic that affects not only the Great Community, but also the southern part of Heves, and the entire region of North-East Hungary. And this is the issue of Lake Tisza. On Lake Tisza it may be worth knowing that Hungary is the second largest lake after Lake Balaton, of course, but it is the largest in Hungary. It occupies 127 square kilometres, and, by the way, at its deepest point, it is about 20 metres deep, but its average depth does not exceed one and a half metres, so it is an extremely multi-purpose area for families, tourism and other fishing purposes. In 1973, the lake itself became what it became by building the dam object in the small circles of the water power plant, and in fact by 1990 it reached the level and the state in which it is now known. In essence, one of the most important features of this new formation and the new treasure of the Nagykunság and the southern part of Heves would be that it serves on the one hand tourism, sport fishing, sport recreation, but also nature travel, as it has an area that is part of UNESCO's World Heritage, the Hortobágy National Park showroom. Numerous birds nest here, many birds occupy this area, which not only in Hungary but also in Central and Eastern Europe is a curiosity to the greatest pleasures of naturewalkers and people who otherwise spend their free time. However, when we have such a formation, there is such an opportunity for the counties and municipalities of East Hungary, what they can bring out of it. Well, the breakout points, as I mentioned earlier, have to be searched for in tourism, sports, hiking. We see that in recent times, Lake Tisza may have been one of the tourist destinations that did not develop with the same pace as the inhabitants of the area or the inhabitants of the area would have liked. Perhaps it is enough for us to say - for several summers I have seen how they live the summer in Abadszalok, Kiskörén, Tiszafüred - his old light, in which he shined before the 1990s and in the early 1990s, was a little worn out. Campings were empty, deserted, there was no renovation at the time, some of the holiday homes unfortunately became uninhabited or not used during summer periods. The number of guest nights and hospitality suffers. If we can say that in some respects tourism has an increase in the number of guest nights, perhaps even this independent area, Lake Tisza and the region of Tisza do not bring the numbers we would expect from it. [[20.00]] These are due not only to the smaller numbers of foreign tourism, but also to the lack of domestic tourism. There are good examples, of course, but unfortunately there are fewer of them than Lake Tisza. One of the examples of Poroszlo and the village of Sarud, which tried to make the most of their situation, may now be the areas of Lake Tisza, which are sufficiently advanced and sufficiently advanced. It should therefore be noted what steps must be taken and what steps can be taken towards which action can be taken. It is quite obvious that Lake Tisza, the region of Lake Tisza, has to move towards a four-season tourism that can serve weather and sports fishing purposes during winter-autumn-spring, while in summer it can serve leisure activities and beaching. It is very important that it should be born, as the cooperation between the counties may have already been established at Lake Tisza, that each county feels the right section of Lake Balaton, well, the same thing must be done at Lake Tisza: both counties and a small part of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, where bordering with it, should feel its own, so Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County and Heves County must pay particular attention to this. On the other hand, we may have to turn our backs or turn away in some way from the current system of resource allocation that now manages development resources together with Debrecen, Hortobágy and Hajduszoboszló. In this order we see that Debrecen and Hajdúszoboszló, given that they also have one of the largest tourist attractions and guest nights at national level, they are undermining the development resources of Lake Tisza. So, to give you just one example, for example, 3 billion forints for bare development, while the development for fishing purposes in Lake Tisza is worth 300 million forints, so there is a high degree of disproportionateness on which there is a need to be improved. In addition, it should also be said that a completely complex and fully coordinated Tisza Lake programme across the counties is needed. Jobbik is working on and will continue to work on coordinating with each other that Heves, Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] find the real location of Lake Tisza and make the nights, guest nights and economic performance (The President bells.) This will increase it. Thank you very much for your patience.
u2017-11-27-307	Thank you very much, Congressman László György Lukács. Dear Parliament, Also, after the agenda, Mr Balázs Simon Róbert, representative of Fidesz, spoke with the title of the upcoming renovation of St. Ignác's Benedictine Church in Győr. You have the floor, Congressman, within a five-minute time frame.
u2017-11-27-308	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give a brief account of the welcome events affecting my parliamentary constituency. It is located in the downtown of Győr with the help of Pázmány Péter in 1626, a Benedictine complex founded by the Jesuits: church, church and school, these are still decisive buildings in the downtown and main square of Győr. The church of the Benedictines in Győr is the first Baroque church in Hungary today, with invaluable values. In 1641 he was in a state where he was able to use it. From this age we know 12 altars in Hungary, five of which are kept there in their original condition, although in a pretty rough state. In 2016, the Benedictine Fathers of Győr celebrated the 375th anniversary with an annual programme series, to which the Hungarian State contributed. They celebrated with publications, conferences, open-air concerts, communal Masses. There are five bishops among their alumni: András Veres, Csaba Ternyák, László Bíró, Gáspár Ladocsi and László Varga. The series of celebrations were able to gain publicity that, with an initiative that I launched in September 2016, record time, in three months, they finally collected 40 million forints, and in 1916, they were able to recreate the four bells of the church offered for war purposes - after a hundred years. We have won local entrepreneurs, the city of Győr and many, many well-intentioned Győr people for this important cause. In fact, they could even make up two smaller bells in the hope that they would be placed in a future hussar tower. This hope also seems to be fulfilled, as in 2016, the Hungarian government awarded HUF 2 billion in support to the Benedictines of Győr for the next four years. Of course, this will not only build a small hussar tower, because it was necessary to renew the original floor of the Benedictine Church, which was consecrated in honor of St. Ignatius of Loyola. Professional restoration of unical archipelagos of the century, drying, cleaning and restoring the walls of the side altars. The church's special baroque organ can be restored, and the church's towers and roof space can be visited with this serious support. A unique bell museum may be established, based on the 19th century. Rómer Flóris, the illustrious Benedictine archaeologist of the century. However, Rómer did not only collect bells, in 1857 he founded Hungary's first rural museum at the Benedictines in Győr and collected practically everything. The scientific collection guarded by the Benedictines will also be presented from the awarded support, of course, along with the experimental tools of Ányos Jedlik, who invented soda water here and lived in the Benedictine Order for the last thirty years of his life. The grant contract was concluded, the first HUF 500 million is already with the beneficiary and the procurement procedures have started. After the successful closure of these, we hope that the insulation of the walls, the renewal of the floor, the construction of the new lighting and sound system will start next January, then they will progress gradually with the rest of the work. At the same time, with the help of a cross-border tender, the early dining room of the building will be in its original state, and the frescoes of the unique Baroque pharmacy will be renewed in the near future. The organizer and director of the renovation is Sárai-Szabó Kelemen Prior, head of the Benedictine Church of Győr. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, I would like to express my thanks to the Government of Hungary that these works can be launched, which will result in the factory Benedictine Church and the Order shining again in its old light. I would also like to thank Minister Péter Szijjártó, who, as a former Benedictine student, fully supports the case from the beginning. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-27-309	Thank you, Congressman Simon Robert. On behalf of the government, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, will respond. You have the floor, Minister.
u2017-11-27-310	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, It is not a question that the Benedictines are decisive players in Hungary's history, it is not a question that the activities of the Benedictine traditions and the Benedictine order in Hungary have always helped Hungary to survive even the most difficult periods and to maintain our attachment to our Christian traditions and Christian roots. The Benedictines have a unique educational, cultural and religious activity in Hungary, not only in Győr, but also in Pannonhalmán, Bakonybel and Budapest, and their cross-border activities around Hungary are also extremely important from a national political point of view. Congressman, the Benedictine Church of Győr, mentioned by you, is the oldest Baroque church in Hungary, which was dedicated in 1641, so I think it is precisely time for the renovation work, all the more so because the side chapels and the altars of the side chapels have never been restored. Apart from the reinforcements, the roof structure of the church and the church still contains the original 1640 wood, so both buildings experienced dangerous static weakening and frequent damage to 50 percent of the cross-section. Therefore, there was no question that immediate technical intervention was needed in order to practically save one of Győr's iconic complexes from even more trouble. This is why Hungary's Government decided in July of last year to provide a total of HUF 2 billion in four instalments between 2017 and 2020 for the renovation of the church and the house of the Szent Mór Perjeleny of the Hungarian Benedictine Congregation in Győr, by making HUF 2 billion available in four equal instalments for four years per half billion HUF and the supported one. In addition to the renovation of the hussar tower mentioned by you, the church floors, the side altars, the rooftops, the towers and the organ are renewed. [[20.10]] According to preliminary plans, tourist facilities are designed in such a way that they do not endanger or impair the original function of the church, the activity of faith in any way. I would also like to tell you, honourable Member, that the head of the Priory has also contacted the government with a school development concept worth HUF 1.8 billion, which will be on the agenda for the government meeting this week. Let us hope for a positive decision, since the Benedictines of Győr and the Benedictines in Hungary have not only contributed to Hungary's success with their religious and cultural activities, but also with their educational activities. However, I would like to draw your attention, honourable Member, to the fact that Saint Benedict is the main patron saint of Europe, and, unfortunately, in Europe today, this is not the general tone in which they speak, as we are talking about it, in terms of the preservation of Christian symbols and Christian values. Unfortunately, in Europe, the XXI. 21st century Europe, the 21st century Unfortunately, this is not the general attitude in Christian Europe of the century, as we are now dealing with this issue. A few weeks ago in France, the Council of State decided to remove the cross from the statue of Pope John Paul. I think that there are very few more problems in Europe than that it wants to break away from Europe's Christian roots than that it wants to be in Europe, which is supposed to be a continent where democracy is a priority and where they like to express the various freedoms so that freedom of religion does not apply to us Christians, but it is an exaggeration. I would just like to make a comparison by saying that I was in Cape Verde recently, which is an African country. There is the first sight man faces, the statue of Pope John Paul and a cross, and no one wants to take it to Cape Verde. In France, Europe, the 21st century. In the century, yes. And I think that if a continent is so far away from its roots, its traditions, its Christianity, it will lead to total self-destruction, and it would be good to avoid that. For our part, we are now taking this small step in this direction. Thank you so much for bringing this up. Thank you, Mr President, for your patience and for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-27-311	Thank you, Secretary of State Szijjártó. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Good evening, restful, good night. [[Meeting ended at 8:13 p.m.]]
