u2017-09-25-0	Dear Parliament, Welcome, and this welcome is on two occasions. First of all, because we haven't met this week; second of all, the IT system doesn't work, so we start our work with a technical break. [[Delight and applause.]] They're trying to make use of the next 15 minutes, and I'm ordering a technical break. Thank you very much for understanding on behalf of colleagues. [[Break: 11.06-11.34]] [[President: Dr. István HillerMessenger: László Földi and István Szávay]]
u2017-09-25-1	Dear Parliament, Welcome to the 4th day of the fall session. I would like to inform you that László Földi and István Szávay will be notaries of the meeting for my help, and that the two excellent notaries are also encouraging that the IT system, we hope, will be restored as soon as possible. Welcome to our dear guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Today we begin our work with speeches before the agenda, from 11:50 a.m. to 13:20 a.m. for questions, and from about 13:20 a.m. to 14:20 a.m. for immediate questions and answers, if you add roughly half an hour of technical pause. Finally, we will conclude today's session with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Németh, representative of Fidesz, applied for a pre-meeting speech with the title "Congratulations to Angela Merkel." Congressman, please.
u2017-09-25-2	Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Dear House, The German elections are always important events in European politics, but when Europe is in a situation like today, it is safe to see the elections in Germany as crucial for the future of Europe and therefore also for the future of Hungary. The winner of the elections, I think, cannot be argued that although the CDU-CSU party association has suffered losses, but they have clearly won the top elections, so we congratulate the Fidesz sister party on behalf of Fidesz, we congratulate party president Angela Merkel and wish her good luck in fulfilling her fourth chancellor's mandate successfully. The loser of the elections: the loser of the elections, I think there can also be no doubt that the SPD, the Social Democrats, have weakened to such an extent that they are slowly getting closer to the position of the small parties, but also the attitude that Martin Schulz and the Social Democrats have been seeing over the past period - from a high horse, somically depopularizing their political opponents, and knowing better what the people needed than the people themselves. In this regard, I think that Martin Schulz can safely recommend the institution of the Hungarian national consultation - it will soon begin - how the opinion of society can be taken into account in shaping politics. What were the surprising components of the election? First of all, the most important surprise is that in the third place, the AfD party formed, and in the fourth place, the FDP, the free democrats, performed. I believe that the result of these two parties is extremely remarkable and that there is a common root for the successful success of the two parties; I think that both of them have taken a very clear and decisive anti-immigration position. And if we consider the possibility that FDP is likely to become a coalition partner for the CDU, CSU, then we can expect that the views that they have formulated against immigration will affect Europe's policy, and we have good hope that the ideas contained in the Soros plan - where appropriate, the forced resettlement, the compulsory quota - will be removed from the agenda of European policy. Finally, some comments on what we can expect in the coming period: firstly, we have to face a fragmented German policy, since so far five parties and now seven parties are involved in the functioning of the Bundestag. This makes it difficult to form a government and makes it more difficult to govern in Germany. At the same time, it follows that the aspects to which the elections have drawn attention will also be assessed in Germany's policy and European policy on security, internal and external aspects of security. And we can also count on my belief that those federal, two-speed dreams that have been formulated over the past few years will be removed from the agenda in the light of sobering results, and that German policy will clearly return to the idea of European unity. On the part of Hungary, if these expectations are fulfilled, I think that we can offer our cooperation, that the friends of Hungary and the Hungarian people will do better in this respect to Germany. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-25-3	On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Tuzson wishes to respond. Before I give the floor, I welcome the students and educators of the Debrecen Ady Endre High School and Lónyay Street Reformed High School and College in Budapest with respect and friendship. I'm glad you're here. Welcome. We'll take care of the timing. Secretary of State, you have the floor for five minutes. Here you go. [[11.40]]
u2017-09-25-4	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, German elections are indeed a very important event for Hungary and for Europe, as we are talking about one of Europe's strongest states, both politically and economically. It is a pleasure for us that the CDU-CSU coalition has been able to win this election, and Angela Merkel has a great chance of continuing government work. Congratulations to Angela Merkel and the CDU-CSU association. And there really is a big loser of this election, the left, the left, the German left, which shows that those thoughts, the voices and the phrases that have been puffed up lately are not successful in Germany, they are not successful in Europe. This can be a great experience, it can be a great forecast for both European and Hungarian left-wing parties. The important issue is that Europe has changed and Europe has changed, because an issue such as immigration has become a very important issue in the German elections and has influenced the results of the German elections. This is particularly important for us Hungarians, because we are primarily under the pressure of immigration, because we are the state that has the longest border on land Schengen, so we must defend ourselves the hardest on immigration. At the borders of Hungary there is a fence that protects Hungary in relation to direct inflow. At the same time, Hungary remains exposed to the implementation of the Soros plan, as we have here a plan, the essence of which is to change Hungary, to change Hungary. And those states that we call Hungary today, Slovakia or Poland, should change and end Hungarians, Slovaks, Poles, and have a united European mass, a European people that will follow the will of Brussels. Europe cannot be turned upside down. The decisions that are made in Europe must be based on the decision of the nations, the nations make their decisions, and the decisions of the nations must come together at the end of Europe's decision. Europe's founding fathers, in which the Germans were involved at the time, even had a lion's share in the fact that Europe was formed as it was, well, the fathers of Europe imagined Europe to be built from the bottom rather than the top - controlled system. We Hungarians must also protest as strongly as possible against this, so it is important that the national consultation, which will be launched in the coming time, will be about the Soros plan, about what the Hungarians will say to each point of the plan. Let us listen to the opinion of the people, because a country can only represent a successful policy internationally if it is based on the will of the people. This is indeed a great lesson for Europe over the past period, and a great lesson for the German elections. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-25-5	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Socialist Party, Mr László Szakács, applied for a pre-memoranda speech on the day of the local government: only government remained. Here you go.
u2017-09-25-6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. We have now heard a lot about grassroots organisation, subsidiarity, bad centralization. I believe that that was why the council system had to be replaced sometime around 1989, in 1990. I think it is important to talk about this on the day of local governments. The reason our ancestors replaced and replaced the council system together was because we did not want to be told from above, if you like, from the center of a party, what would happen in the settlements. This was the local government, and this was perhaps one of the greatest changes to the regime, if not its greatest achievement. Things have come up that we call municipal property. It was a whole new thing that it was possible to assign wealth to the tasks, to take on tasks, to do the tasks. This, of course, allowed the local peculiarities to be highlighted, or the local issues could be resolved. And of course, there was the power to resolve local matters locally, because that is what the local government is all about, but the common right of local people to choose local leaders. This was the case until 2010. And then in 2010, you guys turned your backs. If we look at a sandy picture, we see that once again the decisions that the local communities have to live their lives will be made in the centre of a party. What we're seeing is that you've appointed aristocrats who are now actually called the heads of government agencies. They have no professional past, party soldiers, political actors, they come from your benches, and now they have to decide on education, culture, and consumer protection, if necessary, even the task of the mining captain. The district offices appeared, they said it would be cheaper and faster; the district office is twice as slow as an old mayor's office, and it performs 10-15 percent of the tasks of the municipal and former mayor's offices. That's pretty much what you guys did. It didn't get any faster, it got slower. It didn't get cheaper, it got more expensive. This is the local government reform that you've been developing by taking away the pride of the municipalities that everyone loved, taking away our health institutions, which we've renovated, crediting, attracting people to work there, doctors, nurses. You took him. Our educational institutions, for which we have applied for a great deal at the European Union, have worked a great deal, for which we have also taken loans, you have taken them as a rationalization. They've taken it away so others can operate it. And we can see that their poor system of institutions named after Kuno Klebelsberg and the failure of the State Medical Services Center is more of a drama than a success story. In Pécs, they're jumping a level again, and then the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Hungary is coming back. The Fidesz party committee was formed in Pécs, and they run the city of Pécs. And if a city has been bankrupted, they will start taking the family silver from a dying city, and now the airport is for sale. Will the utility companies be for sale? They've taken away medical facilities, education, they've taken the things that can be operated. We believe that you are making a mockery of the idea of a change of regime that we thought was municipal and that local affairs could be decided locally. When we change this after the change of government, we will give back the powers of local authorities and we will give back the freedom of local authorities to organise, manage and decide local affairs. We'll give back the educational institutions, but not to those who don't ask. We organize the primary care of local health care, local outpatient care, and local authorities are given the opportunity to build their civil relations as they see fit, not as they can decide in your party headquarters. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-09-25-7	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás responds. Here you go. [[11.50]]
u2017-09-25-8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, in 2000, Parliament decided, in great agreement, that the day of the municipalities should be 30 September. The House clearly agreed at the time, and we agree with the Member that the formation of the local government, the municipal system, the decision-making, the development of directly affecting citizens, was one of the main achievements of the change of regime and was also one of the pillars of the change of regime. Of course, how the local government evolved after the establishment of the municipalities in 1990 is clearly seen differently, and it is regrettable that, where appropriate, we sometimes see the facts differently. The drastic transformation of the responsibilities and powers of the municipalities began in the period 1995-1996, in the most unfair way. After all, the powers of the municipalities, the responsibilities and scope of manoeuvre were simply limited by budgetary constraints and budgetary restrictions, and the municipalities were put under pressure. Congressman mentioned the municipal assets. I think it's right that you mentioned it. I would also like to mention that it was the Horn government that sold the municipal assets, privatised the utility companies, and then, from the municipal assets that it privatised, did not give the resources of the municipalities to the municipalities, but spent it. I note that the Orbán government made up for this in 2001 and that in 2001-2002 the municipalities received a huge amount of fresh resources by receiving the funds of the utility assets that were otherwise due to them. [[Dr. László Kács constantly intervenes.]] But I could say the same thing from this period about the fire department's overtime on firefighters. And I could list all the austerity measures that have been taken to destroy the municipalities. In 2009, according to the State Audit Office's report - and we are talking about 2009, the then State Audit Office - the government withdrew some HUF 3600 billion from the municipal sphere between 2004 and 2009 and constantly increased the responsibilities of the municipalities. I would just like to remind Mr President that, for example, county authorities have been destroyed by a single stroke of feathers. After all, their share of the tax revenue was deducted from the county authorities by a single pen stroke, and subsequently the municipalities did not receive their own employees' wages from the government. And so it was regrettable, but it was perfectly understandable and natural, that in 2008-2009 the municipalities, at the head of the county authorities, had to replace the source that had been taken away from them, and with credit, in order to maintain the public services which the municipal law had otherwise imposed on the municipalities. We recognised that this could not go on, so we had to rethink the funding of the municipalities, the division of tasks between the municipalities and the state. I commend to Congressman the times when local government leaders said that the state provided 40-45 percent of the tasks for education, the rest from local taxes, local revenue, and where there was no such thing, it certainly had to be financed by credit. The state has taken over the debts of the municipalities, a new task-sharing agreement has been reached, a new law has been passed, and we have actually come to the conclusion that this year, for the second year, the local government subsystem has not been deficiting but has a revenue surplus. So it does not increase public debt and the municipalities work. We now involve not only EU funds but also the resources generated by the economy in the development of local authorities. And, for example, the programme of modern cities, covering the development of the whole region, creates industrial and economic focal points that help to raise small settlements, create jobs in small settlements, create job opportunities and thus make life possible. I believe that the Hungarian government, the Hungarian Parliament, has done a great deal for the local government in recent years, and I am pleased that we can continue this work in cooperation with the local governments. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-25-9	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you with friendship that since you don't see how much time you have, you will finish your speech much more accurately. Everyone talks for five minutes without seeing it on the monitor. I may propose to Mr President that we try to limit the duration of the comments. Mr. Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, applied for a speech before the agenda, with the title of "Plan Farkas." Here you go.
u2017-09-25-10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There has already been in the House today some sort of imaginary huge conspiracy, a world conspiracy, to which the government has given a name of a plan. Today I would like to talk about a real plan, and it has been implemented in Hungary, and this is supported by facts. And this is Plan Wolf. It could be called the Plan of Flórian Farkas, but of course it could be called the Plan of Orbán, because it is obvious that Flórian Farkas could not have planned this whole series of frauds by himself. Obviously, it took the Prime Minister's mind and approval. The basis of the plan is the hundreds of thousands of Roma people, most of whom are in a very hopeless situation, our fallen, vulnerable fellow citizens. The other part of the plan is the billions of forints that the European Union has given to help these people, but it has become everything but this. He did not become a helper, but in this he saw the fantasy of Flória Farkas, and obviously his master, that voting machines can be created from this, that a voting system can be created, and that money, most of this money can be stolen. It's not just a plan, it's a plan. Today, the bridge to the world of work is the first billion-dollar programme where the government does not deny anything, the government has admitted that most of that money has been stolen. Technically, it would have been difficult to say otherwise, since nothing was realized, but the billions were still paid. However, it is not just about this, it is not just about the "bridge to the world of work" program, but there are other programs, which are much less mentioned, undeservingly. This was the program "The Way to Choose a Career." There was a bridge, but the road wasn't any better. The trip to the profession would have given scholarships to the needy and helped teachers who deal with them. But out of these 6 billion forints, a total of 400 million forints went to this goal, the rest virtually vanished without any profit. There's a lot more extreme than that. I do not know who has heard of the Roma reform programme. I guess not many. One billion forints went to the Roma state reform. Obviously, it is not difficult to prove that no Roma state reform has taken place, but the money has been spent. There was a program called a thousand Roma women, which was part of the Wolf plan. Some people have actually received work in the program of a thousand Roma women, but if you look at how much money they were taught in principle, for example, a few months of nursing school cost 1 million forints per person, or a child care course, perhaps two months of education, came out to 350 thousand forints. And it's not over. It's amazing that they didn't stop, despite the fact that the bridge was caught in the world of work with a program. The state's supposed to want the money back, and they're gonna get it back by giving us the money again, and they're gonna take it again. But it's not over, they keep going. They would create a mentor network for 2 million forints, and here they employ people who are practically, that they are not, members of the Roma government loyal to Flórian Farkas, and these people are either members of the local government or their relatives. . Very often, very old people with virtually one vocational education should be required to prescribe psychological tests and individual mentoring programmes for hundreds of people. Obviously, the Wolf plan didn't mean that. Flórian Farkas himself told the essence of the Farkas plan at a general assembly of the Roma local government, where the Bridge spoke about the program of the world of work. There he said one sentence about this $6 billion program. All he said was that I finally promised you that I would pay you guys, so you're gonna get a full-time paycheck, and you finally got that from the. Bridge to the world of work. It didn't come to nothing. There's one more very important piece of evidence for this Wolf plan, and I'll draw everyone's attention to it. Despite the government's admission that this money was stolen, Flórian Farkas is still behind immunity and has still not been prosecuted. He signed most of the contracts. [[12.00]] There is no more precise, clear evidence of the Hungarian prosecutor's office, and more precise evidence is that the LMP proposal that corruption within the prosecutor's office should be investigated is not necessary. Obviously, the D.A. is one leg of the Farkas Flórian plan, and the other leg of the Rogan plan, which will try to make this Wolf plan disappear with all sorts of fantasy propaganda campaigns. Thank you very much.
u2017-09-25-11	Thank you very much. I'd like to inform you that the IT system is in order. I'd like every congressman to check his card, make sure he's okay, and see if his name appears on his name tag. Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will respond. I would also ask the Secretary of State to speak in Parliament's microphone in a way that works, so let's give it a try. I wish you all the best.
u2017-09-25-12	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Mr President, Mr President, you have concluded by saying that you have condemned a communication campaign, that you are dealing with an unreal or non-existent problem, and that is what you are trying to cover up the issues you have been talking about. Honourable Congressman, This fits well with what you and your fellow opposition Members and fellow politicians have said and say, which completely conceals the reality of immigration. I think that the result of the German elections can be one of the signs, warning signs for every politician who can read, which shows that if one does not deal with it and considers it as you believe that there is no immigration, then it must be paid a serious political price. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy, standing up, talking to the horseshoe with his back, his groupmate.]] What you have said, honourable Member, is that in Hungary there is a functioning system that examines regularity in the use of EU funds, if there is an irregularity, it intervenes if there is no irregularity, it does not intervene. The system doesn't work where you send a letter, or where you hold a press conference, there's an investigation that you don't send, there's no investigation. Honourable Congressman, You held a number of press conferences called corruption information, which is more commonly referred to in the press as fake info, where you didn't deal with one issue: the biggest corruption case in the history of EU funding, namely metro 4. What you are not dealing with is the irregularity of which the European Union is launching an investigation because it is irregular because it is illegal. What you do hold press conferences on, however, neither the European Union nor the Hungarian authorities will open an investigation in those matters. Therefore, it is possible to distinguish between real corruption cases, which, where appropriate, will be subject to an investigation in Brussels, that you will remain silent about them and that you will cover them. He somehow assists them, distracts them, and talks about other procedures in which there is no reality, which is why these procedures do not start. So, honourable Member, the essence of your speech is that the use of European Union funds in Hungary is regular, because there are irregularities, the biggest investment in subway 4 during socialist and liberal times, when the damage to Hungarian taxpayers is estimated to be a hundred billion in size; far more than a new super hospital could be built out of, this money that has been stolen, removed or stolen from this project. [[Lajos Korózs: What about Vietnam?]] And where you launch various press campaigns, it turns out that neither the European Union authorities nor the Hungarian authorities find anything in these cases. Obviously, in addition to the fact that with these various press campaigns, you are also trying to cover corruption carried out during the socialists, since you won't say a word about it, these speeches may also fit into a form of slumbering when you say that what we trust to the gypsy people there are various irregularities. I think it is right, honourable Member, that if we are to spend money on giving Roma people, whether in the form of scholarships or in other forms, the opportunity to learn, they are to acquire qualifications. One of the consequences of this is that during our seven-year governance, [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's why you're kicking them out of school! Lajos Korózs: Shame on you!]] During our seven-year government, the number of Gypsy Hungarian compatriots who now go to university and college has more than doubled. This, of course, required a program that helped me finish primary school, helped me finish high school, or helped me get a job. [[Gábor István Bellozó: You have been helped to buy votes!]] Our fellow Member opposed these applications, these programs, which helped people to gain a profession, or helped Roma people to get a diploma and not Gypsy Hungarian people as well, so that they could continue to study. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy is leaving the meeting room.]] I think that for Hungary it is a very important success, a very important success, that young people who have been able to complete their secondary school studies with various Roma scholarships or other help, they have been able to go to university, and today we have twice as many Gypsy young people studying at universities as seven years ago, and we can have no other task than to increase this number in the coming years, so that more and more Gypsy young people can get an education, study, even get a higher education and thrive in life. And the honourable Member, who thinks democracy is not listening to the answer to the question, we have always listened to the Member. [[Gábor István Bellozó: Because it doesn't make sense.]] Obviously, it was not always the easiest time to listen to the style he represents, but during the answers he regularly leaves Parliament [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You didn't even come in for years!]] I don't know what kind of LMP parliamentarianism or what kind of dialogue it is on their side, but since my time frame is running out, let me not tell you the cases where the Member was caught in the complete Hungarian public misreality. He said that he would resign if he was caught in a false way, and when he was caught in a false way, for example, in the case of family land estates, of course, he did not resign, he imagined the dialogue to be about this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-25-13	Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, the representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Mr László Földi, notary of the National Assembly, has applied for a pre-scheduled speech with the title "The Year of Families" 2018. Here you go.
u2017-09-25-14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I consider it a counter-debt that the only outstanding result of Fidesz-KDNP governance would be the protection of the country and the fight against illegal immigrants and terrorists. While protecting borders and guaranteeing security, the national Christian side is working unbrokenly to strengthen the most important community, the family. For example, we introduced family taxation, which is a unique measure throughout Europe and has already helped over a million Hungarian families. The tax relief for families raising two children will gradually double from 2016 to four years: from HUF 10 000 to HUF 12 500 last month, this amount increased to HUF 15 000 per child this year. And if we look at next year's budget, we can say that 2018 will be the year of families. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Don't threaten me, don't threaten me!]] In January, the monthly tax relief for families with two children will increase to HUF 35,000, and the first married couple will receive a similar tax allowance of HUF 5 000 per month. More than HUF 226 billion will be available for the home creation programme this year. Families with three or more children, who build or buy new apartments, can use a 3-percent fixed rate housing loan. The VAT rate for the purchase of real estate is reduced to 5 per cent and the tax refund is granted to the self-employed. Let us not forget that national home-building communities are starting. This new construction, like the House Savings Bank, provides state aid to members for the amounts paid, with a maximum of 30 per cent and a maximum of 300 thousand forints per year. The members are therefore committed to paying a fixed amount at a pre-specified rate, and the community will advance the money missing for the purchase of the new apartment free of interest to those selected by the draw. For families with mortgage loans, a million forints will be released from the debt if they have a third child. In the case of 116 thousand women with student loans, the first child will be suspended for three years from the third month of pregnancy, half of the debt will be released for the second child and the third child for the whole. The duration of the graduate is extended by one year, so the child is extended to two years in the case of university students. Cradle development will continue this year. For this purpose, we will spend an additional HUF 5 billion. It is also a very important achievement that as many children have never had free textbooks and children's meals as in this school year, and the VAT on internet, restaurant meals and fish is reduced to 5 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, Why is it important that we literally put the money down to support families, that is to say, the citizens' tax dollars? [[12.10]] Because we are living in a world that is falling apart and is struggling with the crisis of our old values, and I believe that the greatest danger is the spread of cynicism and nihilism. Today, it will quickly be the subject of parody, even disfellowshipping, who lives along principles and believes in something other than God's morality, family, and country. At times like this, we need clear speech and firm stand. We Christians and Democrats, KDNP and Fidesz, unlike our opponents, can not only explain to people what we say no to, but also what we say yes to. We believe that man's happiness can be most fulfilled in one family. I therefore consider what I have already said in the parliamentary debate on next year's budget: the system of family support proves that Fidesz-KDNP is the only party family in Hungary, which can clearly, firmly and clearly tell people what it wants. We want to help people from work, families and Hungarian businesses, and we guarantee them growth and security. Thanks to our joint efforts, everyone, all Hungarians, can move forward in 2018. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-25-15	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Mr Retvári State Secretary is once again responding. Here you go.
u2017-09-25-16	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I trust that you will remain here for the duration of the answer, because for Fidesz-KDNP it is indeed a choice of value, a vision of how to imagine Hungary's future. We imagine that the future of Hungary can also become brighter with the help of Hungarian families, the growing Hungarian families. We do not imagine the future of the Hungarian economy or the future of the Hungarian nation, Hungary, based on Hungarian families, and we support Hungarian families, because we believe that our best investment in the future is the help of Hungarian families. This means financial family support, family support in kind, expansion of family support. Here you mentioned the free children's meals, the textbook, and many other measures that make Hungary more family-friendly for families. It helps people who want to have children to do so here in Hungary and can do so in good circumstances, and the state does not punish them with interest rates, high taxes, but helps them where they can start a family. This is also important because stability is essential here, but it has not always been so in Hungary. We can remember the first government of the socialists when the Bokros package has shaken the confidence of families in state aid, and then we can think about the second socialist governance period, which unfortunately took twice as long as the previous one. They also had time, on the one hand, to take away regular child protection support from some families, to take away family tax benefits for one and two children, to take away the third year from each family, to last only the first two years, and, unfortunately, to break up the system of HUF loans with interest rate subsidies, and to drive families into the risk of foreign exchange credit, which subsequently appeared. So there was a time when they did not help families, but family policy was about austerity; it was the period of opposition parties, the period of socialists. On the other hand, after 2010, there is an increase in the amount of support for families in Hungary, twice as high as the rate of increase in the total national product. Since we believe that the most important support for the future is what we devote to families, so as much as the economy has increased, Hungarian families have been given twice as much at a growth rate. This has doubled from HUF 960 billion to HUF 1929 billion in 8 years, which is not only a large growth in Hungary, but also in the European Union, or among the most developed countries, this is expected to be 4.8 percent, national-based, and 4.8 percent of GDP-proportionally higher than the OECD average in the future, which is 2.5 percent. An important step was the introduction of family-type taxation, which does not deprive families of the earned income they are investing in raising the child. We say that if someone is involved in building the country's future, bearing public burdens, bearing children while working, then the money that can be spent on the child stays with the family. Since 2014, there have been hundreds of thousands of families in Hungary, who have not had to pay taxes or contributions since the introduction of this measure since 2014, but their net and gross earnings coincide. And it is also important that this is one of the most successful, ever introduced, most successful benefits for families, as more than 95 percent of Hungarian families can benefit from family-type tax incentives. This is complemented by the additional benefits that have been realised: 21 000 people were able to benefit from the first married couple. It is also important that, in order to safeguard the future of children, we have committed to paying school support for school visits. This reduced by more than two thirds the number of students missing more than 50 hours in Hungarian, and now only one third of students are exposed to the risk - compared to the situation seven years ago - that they will not get the education that they can manage afterwards and live their lives. Thus, the encodement of poverty from generation to generation was also broken, and this negative spiral may be able to turn positive for these families. It is important to take measures from 2012 which set two days a year of additional leave for children. The introduction of baby bonds already means a pre-saving for 93,000 children. In many places families, parents, or grandparents save this amount year after year for children. And it is also important that grandmothers work with children, grandchildren [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Women can benefit from 40, which was voted only by the governing parties, the opposition parties did not vote, but 200,000 have already used it, so it was a successful measure. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-25-17	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The representative of Jobbik, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, applied for a speech before the agenda:.Bérunió: which has so far been omitted from the repertoire of ministers and State Secretarys. It's an address. Here you go.
u2017-09-25-18	Mr President, Dear House, By examining the latest figures of the Hungarian economy, we clearly conclude that, after the withdrawal of EU funds on the umbilical cord, the performance of the Hungarian economy is clearly negative, so it is not capable of development and growth at the moment of its own strength. We also see that, since 2010, we have been talking about the economic policy of the current Fidesz-KDNP regime, and so we have been talking about it again for the past eight years. We also see that, unfortunately, in terms of our most important problem, population loss, because we are not counter-incentives, but we have only achieved a shift within the margin of error, and in the period concerned, we have lost more than 100,000 souls, not counting emigrants, because we know that in the meantime, every sixth child is born outside our current borders. We also have to say that when Jobbik, with the concept of the Wage Union, tries to propose a solution to this issue from the opposition, to which Fidesz-KDNP does not have any answers, we get stupid, demagogical arguments, even though no one has said that a vegetable should earn as much in Belgium as on the Grand Boulevard, and no one has said from the better part that we should give any powers to the super-state in Brussels. This was done precisely by the representatives of the Fidesz-KDNP in conjunction with the MSZP, let us say, in the almost unread vote of the Lisbon Treaty. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's right.]] So what you are accusing me of, many of you have done here too, so I would suggest a little more modesty, and a little more constructive, inclusive attitude to avert the greatest threat to Hungarians. [[Towards the benches of Fidesz:]] You can grin on that, but if you look at the voting records, then you've got something to be ashamed of, not us. It is quite clear that what Jobbik is talking about on the basis of the wage union concept is not administrative pricing, regulatory payment, but clearly improving the productivity of Hungarian companies and businesses at last, transforming cohesion resources in such a way that they can clearly serve the slow approximation and equalization of the humiliatingly low level of Hungarian wage levels. Thirdly, we would include multi-company companies in the scope of public burden-sharing, since they should examine, let us say, the tax burden paid by multinational companies in the Czech Republic, compare this with Hungarian, and they will see that almost the same companies pay more taxes in other countries in the region than we do here; and they will see that, while you are signing strategic contracts with these companies, you have not, on any occasion, concluded that you are at least slowly approaching the European average for the work of Hungarian workers. [[12.20]] At the same time, your Prime Minister, say in Saudi Arabia, campaigned that Hungary could be competitive, because wages are low and you are shaping the labour code to be sufficiently flexible. These amazing self-destructive thoughts are also affecting your economic policy, which is why we call on you to renegotiate at least now the strategic contracts containing the humiliating conditions through which you are stroking the multinational sector, the sector whose employees are vulnerable, and the members of which would not leave Hungary if they provided a decent wage level to those working there. However, if we do not conclude a strategic contract with Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, as you have not done, then the sector that provides work and livelihood for most Hungarian people is slowly drifting to the brink of inability, and if you pour all this down with the syrup that you have already spilled, with the sea of your all-invading corruption mechanisms, then the current Hungarian national economy will be created without any prospects of development. Therefore, Jobbik will harshly eliminate the forms of corruption that you have introduced. We do not want to argue for a long time about a Hungarian economic policy that is characterised only by 27 per cent VAT, the rents of HUF 150,000, housing poverty, the amazing start-up difficulties of young people, and then you come here and say in your production reports that everything is actually on the right track. That's what we want to argue with. We do not want Hungary's Prime Minister to advertise our country with cheap wages abroad. We want to finally give Hungarian young people real start-up opportunities. That is why I say that, in terms of the EU wage campaign, they should not be opposed to stupid, demagogic, Bolshevik-type arguments, but should finally get into this debate and, where appropriate, take the lead. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Perhaps this would be more elegant on the part of a government than unintelligent cutting. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-25-19	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary, responds. Mr. Secretary.
u2017-09-25-20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In his speech, as a result of the numerous changes in direction and identity change, Jobbik would leave Hungarian wages to EU bureaucrats. The party that used to burn an EU flag wants this, the party and Gábor Vona, who said in a speech about Hungary's membership in the EU, that we swear on the god of Hungarians that we will no longer be members. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. If the Jobbik were really interested in wage increases, if you had already talked about voting, then at the end of last year you would have voted in favour of the tax cuts that made wage increases possible. Jobbik has also recruited partners for this wage Union operation that you have described here, such as a Croatian neo-Nazi. The former politician of the Croatian Pure Law Party - a supporter of Jobbik's initiative - regularly takes pictures of Nazi swings and attends events in support of the Croatian general, who had previously been accused of war crimes in the Hague. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks. Interpretings in the same place, among them: Shame on you!]] Regardless of Jobbik's frivolous proposal, wages should be increased and increased by employers, which is why the minimum wage and the minimum wage for skilled workers increased by 15 and 25 percent. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Why are they leaving the country? Why?]] This is why sectoral wage increases will continue, among other things, in the healthcare sector, in the case of teachers' law enforcement workers. Find out and you can see that wages in Hungary have only increased by 12% on average this year. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Why do people leave the country?]] Speaking of the Union, you have actually created a single union, and the Jobbik union with Lajos Simicska. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks. Intercoms from Jobbik: Habony!]] Jobbik's poster acquisition action shows that the party is already doing desperate things because of the decline in popularity. It seems quite clear that these posters were played by Lajos Simicska to Jobbik. The big contractor bought your party not by kilos, but by ounces. This proves that you can do anything for money and power. [[Rumors and interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] Now would be a good time to rename your party, or your new name could be the one named after the aforementioned contractor. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-25-21	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Mr Péter Ágh, MEP Fidesz; Member László Kiss, MSZP; Member István Szávay, Mr Jobbik; Member Gergely Farkas, Member Jobbik; Member László Teleki, Jobbik [[Defiance from the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Laci, how long have you been a better man? Ask yourself that.]] ; Dóra Dúró, Mrs Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát Member, Jobbik; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély Member, MSZP. Now, at 12:25 p.m., we will begin the discussion of questions and immediate questions. First of these, MEP László Varga, representative of the MSZP, asks his oral question: "The future of healthcare in Diósgyőr." Here you go.
u2017-09-25-22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In recent years it has become clear that people in Hungary regard health as one of the biggest problems. Health care workers and doctors are doing a victim-made job, yet the often devastating circumstances and the shortage of workers put everyone involved in a very difficult situation. In such a situation, State Secretary Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs announced on 28 February in Miskolc that a super-hospital will be set up, i.e. the county hospital and the Misek, which is the former institution of urban reserve. They did all this on April 1st, but it's clear that while you're talking about a super hospital, it's actually just a simple institution merger, they're trying to sell it to people with a communication trick. They try to sell it as if it improves the quality of care. In fact, however, the Miskolcs, especially those living in the West of Miskolc and Diósgyőr, are getting increasingly narrower and more difficult to access, since after the last eight years you have ceased your own adult-hospital care in Diósgyőr, the benefits are being more and more dismantled, since they are being relocated from the Iron Factory SZTK to the city centre, much further away, and partly to the increasingly empty Diósgyőr Member's Hospital. It is clear, therefore, that in the last eight years, the supply of the Western part of Miskolc, Diósgyőr, has been cut off at all levels, as I said, the basic care has also been reduced, the specializations have been demolished, and unfortunately, Diósgyőr Member's Hospital has also lost its supply standards. So the question is, when are you going to develop nutgy care properly, and when will the tens of thousands of people who are concerned get what they deserve from the healthcare you run? Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-09-25-23	Secretary of State of Rétvári, Secretary of State of the EMMI, please.
u2017-09-25-24	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I suppose, Congressman, you've been to Starpoint, and I've been there, too: a modern environment has developed, either for the city of Miskolc or for the entire county of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén, which, I believe, has earned the recognition of many. As a result of a modern ten billion-dollar investment, we are talking about a hospital, a super-hospital, if we look at a post-pool state where patients really don't have to go from pavilion to pavilion, but can heal them in a unitary building block. And as for the nutgy clinic you mentioned, here's what you call difficult availability, what you call an infinite physical distance, 800 meters. A move of 800 metres was made, as 15 specialists were transferred from the building built in the last century to a building built in this century, where the number of specialties in the Diósgyőr part of the city remains unchanged in 20 professions, 31 orders and 766 hours per week, so the number of specialties in the Diósgyőr part of the city has not changed. The move did not take place downtown, as you said, but 800 metres away, so the building remains well accessible and modern, and the supply conditions are even better. In addition, the Tömörkényi út office continues to operate. It's a government-run practice, where in six professions, they can also heal patients for 12 hours. Obviously, we will continue to strive to ensure that basic care is as close as possible to patients. This is what this modernisation programme and this reorganization have served, since in much more modern, modern conditions, but at about the same geographical location, patients or regular check-ups are able to visit their doctor and receive appropriate care. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[12.30]]
u2017-09-25-25	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is the Rules of Procedure 121. Paragraph 4 (a) - Article 124 With its powers extended by Paragraph 1 of the Act, Ms Márta Demeter, Mrs LMP, Mr K/17221, Mr K/17222 and Mr K/17266 respectively. He rejected his written questions because the motions were not part of the mandate of the Government. I will also inform the Honourable Parliament that I have made a mistake: Mr László Teleki is a stable member of the Socialist Group. There's no change in that. [[Intercoms and applause in the benches of the MSZP.]] I replaced him with Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, who is a member of Jobbik; he is likely to stay. My apologies. István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, addresses the oral question:. If we veto Croatia's membership of the OECD because of Zsolt Hernádi and Mol's case, then what could be our proportional response to Romania, which pursues the Szekler flag and Hungarian subtitles, and threatens the leaders of the local Hungarians, the Ukraine that makes Hungarian language education impossible, the Serbia that bans admission to higher education in Hungarian, or the Slovakia which punishs dual citizenship? It's an address. Here you go.
u2017-09-25-26	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Hungary has recently vetoed the OECD recruitment of Romania and Croatia, due to the Catholic Lyceum in Targu Mures and the attitude towards MOL and Zsolt Hernádi in Croatia. So far, the Hungarian State Department has not had the habit of using such tools for the sake of foreign Hungarians. Even though Jobbik has warned us on many occasions to take advantage of similar diplomatic opportunities, such as the EU accession process of Ukraine and Serbia. Of course, we know that Zagreb has a serious record in implementing the judgment of the chosen Swiss court, but I am not interested in detailing this, because even taking this into account, Jobbik considers it extremely disproportionate that the government has taken the same measures against Romania, which pursued the Szekler flag and the Hungarian symbols, which obstructs bilingualism by all means and threatens the leaders of Transylvanian Hungarians, as in the case of Croatia. By doing so, you are a basically economic one, but I could also say that you have reduced the serious problems of Transylvanian Hungarians to the level of corruption. The contrast is particularly strong in the Serbian context, Mr. Secretary of State. You want to open the door of the European Union unconditionally to Serbia, which is still discriminated against by former Chetniks, while the Fidesz media is making a Nazi out of the Croatian national hero, General Ante Gotovina, for petty political reasons, as the State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés has done here in a ignominious way. Shame on you, I'll tell him from here. It was, therefore, a long time ago, time for you to take such a decisive step against Romania or Ukraine. This was welcomed several times by myself and by other representatives of Jobbik. I don't have a hard time doing it right now. I wish you good work for this. Go ahead. But there would also be good reason for this in relation to Serbia and Slovakia. On the basis of the above, as vice-president of the Hungarian-Croatia Friendship Group of the Interparlamentary Union, I would like to ask the Secretary of State why you believe that proportional action is being taken to measure Romania against Transylvanian Hungarians with a similar standard to that of Croatia in relation to OECD membership, OECD recruitment. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-25-27	Thank you very much, Congressman. Hungarian Secretary of State Levente responds. Here you go.
u2017-09-25-28	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Two minutes is not enough to review the entire system of Hungary's complex neighbourhood policy, but in some respects I would like to give a meaningful reaction, just because I see that the Member suffers from a lack of information, for example, when he says that Hungary vetoed - so, last time - Romania's membership of the OECD, while a few minutes ago we received a thank-you call from Bucharest that Hungary supported Romania's membership of the OECD; as you could already know by the weekend, both Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and President Dragnea's communication. Honourable Congressman, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is no correlation between these matters. As tempting as the idea is, and it seems obvious that there is, I would like to stress that there is no such thing as Hungary is moving in an international space where many conflicts occur almost daily. This is largely due to the fact that we are members of a nation that lives under the authority of several states. This is clearly generating and will certainly continue to generate conflict situations in the future. This conflict, however, arises from the fact that the Hungarian government stands up for the interests of Hungarians from abroad, and also by means that were not previously considered ordinary. In Romania, a shameful event occurred: a Hungarian school was closed a few days before the start of the school year. This situation has not been fully resolved to this day, although progress has undoubtedly been made, and until it is resolved, Hungary will hold the Romanian Government accountable for its promise to the solution. This promise has been made. That is why we have decided to support Romania's membership of the OECD. This is a completely different matter in the case of Croatia. He refuses to take note of and execute a judgment that was given in a court of his choice. Hungary will continue to take the most decisive action against such behaviour by its neighbours in the face of fundamental national interests. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-25-29	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy a question, 'Do you also ignore the work of disabled pensioners?' It's an address. Here you go.
u2017-09-25-30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Several desperate citizens have contacted me in recent years, who have reported that many years of work they have worked during a disability pension is not recognised as pension insurance periods, even though contributions have been properly paid. As we know, as of 1 April 2007, the pension contribution will be charged with the work on the pension. The termination of the disability pension scheme by 31 December 2011 will result in the withdrawal of the statutory pension for hundreds of thousands of disabled pensioners and, better, the development of social benefits. People who have worked in a reduced number of hours in a reported employment relationship with a disability pension cannot expect to take into account their working years. In the form of a half-percent increase, you can only count on alms. In other words, despite working and trying to work in a way that suits their health, they remain active members of society, and their efforts are ignored by the state. This is also extremely unfair to those who are deprived of their disability pension because of the already available hours of service when they work as beneficiaries. In other words, the same job under the pension is not recognised, but if someone ends up with an invalidity allowance, it will be counted. Mr. Secretary. It's not enough that hundreds of thousands of people have been deprived of their acquired rights, now even their jobs are being ignored? When do they change the rules and make up for these people? Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2017-09-25-31	Thank you very much. Secretary of State of Rétvár, please.
u2017-09-25-32	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, It is clear from your speech that it is not the state of the system that has now been created that is causing the problem, but the regulation of the period 2007-2011, when, in the absence of a contribution, no service period or a benefit fund could be recognised in the pension system. This was changed by Fidesz-KDNP when they received care, or who actually had the ability to work, so they were able to do work, and we opened up the possibility of working for them. By means of rehabilitation cards, we have more than doubled the number of people who can work with a certain discount. Obviously, they also have better wages, better livelihoods than in the previous period, and this obviously entitles them to all kinds of pensions and other benefits, all kinds of pensions. If someone has worked as a pensioner between 2007-2011 and has not asked for an increase so far, they will be determined by the end of October 2017 even if he is currently not receiving a pension but one of the benefits of the disabled, so who has not asked for the certain correction that you have mentioned, of course we will take this step ourselves now, so that they are not at a disadvantage if you have not specifically asked for it. And the fact that the system had to be touched and it had to be changed was clear, because even in previous years, even in March 2009, the then Minister Erika Szűcs and László Keller announced that the pension fund had a deficit of HUF 200 billion. Fidesz-KDNP has been able to find a solution to preserve the stability of the pension fund, since it has been stable since then, without having to make up for a shortage, but on the other hand, people who are employed in some form of employment with disabilities can now take part in the world of work to a much greater extent. We believe that this was the best way for everyone, the pensioners and the disabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[12.40]]
u2017-09-25-33	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, On your behalf, I welcome the students of the Celldömölki Dániel High School and the Móricz Zsigmond High School of Kisújszállás and the teachers' colleagues. I'm glad you're here. Good afternoon. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister for National Development: what time, planning and financial schedule is expected in order to improve the road link between Szombathely-Kőszeg? It's an address. Congressman, please.
u2017-09-25-34	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The Government of Hungary contributed to the development of the western part of Transdanubia and the Vas county and to its safer, faster transport when it took action to implement the M86 road. However, even after this has been completed, we still have improvements that will serve the strategic advancement of the region. One of these goals, the development of the road link between Szombathely-Kőszeg, was also identified in the framework of the Modern Cities programme, which would make the access between Vas county and Vienna more efficient. In transport between the two countries, this would be of great importance, both to the narrower environment, to the county of North Vas, and to the city of Kőszeg, for which the government has already done a great deal in the framework of the KRAFT programme, but we still have a lot to do, so we need to take further steps. I therefore respectfully ask what time, planning and financial schedule is expected in order to improve the road connection between Szombathely-Kőszeg. Thank you very much. I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. [[It's a rare applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-09-25-35	Thank you very much. Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, will answer your question. Here you go.
u2017-09-25-36	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government's priority transport policy is the fast-tracking of county-righted cities, which was completed in Szombathely last year. On a new trail from Győr to Vas county seat, only three municipal bypassers were ready before 2014 for a total of 92 kilometers, about 15 kilometers. We've handed over another 77 kilometers in this government cycle, almost half of it, partly with the longest 33.5 kilometers of Mountain Village-Csorna section in autumn 2016. By opening the road section, the journey time decreased by 30 minutes until Győr. After the transfer, Budapest became available in two hours from the Vas county seat. The development of Highway 87 is necessary and justified, and the project is part of the national road network development concept. The government concluded a cooperation agreement with Szombathely County Municipality in November 2015, and as a result of this, preparatory work on the development of the road link between Szombathely-Kőszeg is ongoing. The technical content, the expected cost and the precise sectional limits of the project can be determined after the feasibility study has been carried out. The design and implementation will be carried out in cooperation between Austria and Hungary, which will result in a significant improvement in the road connection of the region. The preparation will take place by summer 2020 and is planned to involve domestic budgetary resources. They also demonstrate that the government continues to make increased efforts to improve and improve the quality of its transport network. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-25-37	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sándor Burány, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank:. What were the staff of the Central Bank in Jamaica? It's an address. Congressman, please. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: The trumpeter!]]
u2017-09-25-38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Vice President, Your coworkers like to travel, as we know, to sunny Jamaica. This year they visited the Caribbean almost three times, and the total cost of these trips exceeded HUF 10 million. In addition, in April, according to press reports, a staff member of the Central Bank spent 16 days in the Gulf of Montego not having a major economic conference in the area that required travel. Of course, there are suitable accommodations for employees: executive directors have five-star rooms, other employees have to settle for three or four-star hotels. Unfortunately, this urination is not unusual in your practice, since only a few people in your home can relax in castles available for foreign travel. In addition to their good salary, the employees of the Hungarian National Bank can obtain exceptionally favourable loans, loans with conditions that other Hungarian citizens cannot have access to, which they could only dream of. Mr. Vice President, We already know how much the central bank employees make, but my question is what they're doing in Jamaica. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2017-09-25-39	Thank you very much. Mr Nagy, vice-president of the National Bank of Hungary, answers the question of Mr Nagy. Mr. Vice President.
u2017-09-25-40	[[Without sound:]] Thank you very much. Dear House,
u2017-09-25-41	Don't ruin the technique for me, I've had a problem with it today. Do you have a card?
u2017-09-25-42	Is the microphone working?
u2017-09-25-43	Look, I don't know if it works if you don't talk. [[They put a portable microphone in front of Martin the Great.]] Here, Mr. Vice President, try a microphone.
u2017-09-25-44	I'm trying. Okay, I think it's gonna be okay.
u2017-09-25-45	So it's up to Vice President Martin the Great. Here you go.
u2017-09-25-46	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, I can tell you the following thing about travel: the international engagement of the Hungarian National Bank is quite extensive, and this is due to the fact that the National Bank is a member of a number of international organizations. I do not need to remind anyone that we are taking part in the European Commission, the ECB, the European System of Central Banks fora and commissions [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Jamaica is not in Europe!]] , meetings of the BIS, IMF, OECD and other European Supervisory Authorities. For the MNB, not only closer links with the co-institutions are a priority for such journeys, but it tries to turn its activities into international financial circulation as much as possible. Central bank employees may participate in foreign events on the basis of strict guidelines for the posting of the institution abroad, while respecting the MNB's Code of Ethics, the relevant provisions of the MNB's Manual of Management. [[Intervention from the lines of MSZP: Cayman Islands, Virgin Islands.]] I would like to stress that the professional name of the event, the importance of the participating institutions and the knowledge to be acquired are priorities for the evaluation of delegation to each programme, not the venue of the event. As a result, both I and the National Bank reject any conflicting speculation trying to make the MNB look bad. As far as the specific route is concerned, this trip is IOSCO, founded in 1983, an annual conference of the International Organisation of Securities Supervisors, which took place in Jamaica in 2017 with 200 members from 110 countries. The next meeting will take place in Budapest in 2018, and hopefully Budapest will host international representatives more and more widely. On the Jamaican road, on the one hand, colleagues lectured and participated in high-quality negotiations as members. On the other hand, as host of next year's conference, a stand was run and the programme of next year's conference was presented. Thirdly, in order to meet the very strict rules and deadlines related to the settlement, the aim was to exchange, consult, and visit the organisation as expected by the IOSCO Secretariat. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Overall, I would like to emphasise once again that, in terms of participation in individual international events, [[The president's ringing again.]] It is not the location that matters, but what knowledge we can acquire and what international relations we can build. Thank you very much.
u2017-09-25-47	Dear Parliament, Congressman Tamás Pintér, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Attorney General: "Does the Public Prosecutor also cover the corruption in Dunaújváros? It's an address. Congressman, please.
u2017-09-25-48	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As long as Jobbik is on the side of the people, the Fidesz authorities seem to be on the side of corruption. Two years ago, I filed a report of suspicion of fiscal fraud over corruption in the darkness of Dunaújváros. In this report, I presented conclusive documents, detailing who the Fidesz politicians were who were likely to be involved in the corruption scandal that created the risk of accidents. The thieves then set him on the run, and it seems that the authorities give them all the help they need: the detectives did not interrogate any specialist, the professionals who even gave up their employment, and thus wanted to warn the city leadership about the scandalous investment; they did not investigate the facts that proved budget fraud. Even though Fidesz politicians may have put hundreds of people in danger who want to go out after dark, the investigating authorities have done nothing. [[György Szilágyi: Shame!]] Even though there could be sufficient evidence of how many million forints of Fidesz might have been hit, it seems that the authorities have turned a blind eye to all of this. Finally, five thousand forints of investigative costs were calculated, with which they also underlined that for two years they had not moved their fingers, and thus allowed corrupt city fideses to continue to raid Dunaújváros and continue to put the people of Dunaújváros in a dangerous situation. I therefore ask the Attorney General with great respect why, despite the evidence, the authorities have allowed corrupt city fidesz politicians in Dunaújváros to run. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-25-49	Thank you very much. The congressman's question is answered by Attorney General Péter Polt. Here you go.
u2017-09-25-50	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Congressman! On the matter of the Member, he consistently mentions corruption crimes. Now, in this procedure, there is no evidence of corruption or corruption. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: How would it be?]] You didn't claim it either, so it's a weird thing in itself. [[12.50]] The procedure was initiated because of fiscal fraud, which was suspected by the authorities. For others, this investigation was conducted by the NAV's competent criminal directorate. In doing so, he obtained all possible evidence, listened to those who had to be heard, and thus concluded that it was not possible to prove the crime - not a corruption crime, but a crime of fiscal fraud - and therefore terminated the proceeding because of a lack of evidence. This was done legally, since, according to the law on criminal proceedings, prosecution can only take place if it is fully supported by evidence. If the Member has evidence of any corruption related to the case, I would ask him to bring this to us. And on the other hand, the assumption on his question, even in his title, is unfounded, untrue, and offensive. OLAF itself, the specialised body dealing with the EU budget, and the commission of the European Union Parliament, which has just been in Hungary, found the prosecution of EU funds to be reassuring. This public lighting project was partly covered by the Cohesion Fund. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] So the allegations you made were made out of air. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári applauds.]]
u2017-09-25-51	Thank you very much, Mr. Attorney General. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, would you like to ask the Minister of National Economy a question about the child with bath water? It's an address. Congresswoman, please.
u2017-09-25-52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Worrying news from foundations for disadvantaged or sick children, but also from the home of other civil society organisations, last year's legislative amendment, which is the task of the NAV, has significantly reduced the amount of 1 percent tax offerings that can be given to civil society organisations and churches. The possibility of 1 percent offerings has been removed from the perspective of individual taxpayers by the new system of reporting, placing civil society organisations which have based their activities in the majority of these subsidies on public interest. The LMP has always considered it an important mission to strengthen public participation and support the civil sector engaged in public benefit activities. It would be difficult for anyone to blame such organizations for being part of the Soros plan, so a government that considers itself family- and child-friendly should not have an interest in making their operation difficult or impossible. Therefore, based on the practical experience of the effects of the amendment on the civilian sphere, without debating the validity of the system of reporting that facilitates the lives of citizens, it would be necessary to re-regulation or supplement it in a way that would also give back to civil society organisations of public benefit. What is just a grain of dust for the budget can mean life for a lot of civil society and people they support. I therefore ask the Secretary of State whether, in the light of these effects, they intend to change the current system in order to ensure that citizens are at least as motivated as they were before in the area of 1 percent offerings. Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2017-09-25-53	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, will answer your question. Here.
u2017-09-25-54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and One of the points you made in your question is that I do not agree, which is to say that the 1 percent return option has been removed from the perspective of individual taxpayers, and this puts civil society organisations in an extremely difficult position. This statement is not true, since it is not out of the public's sight. It is true that the Sija system facilitates the tax return of individuals, since 1 million 400 thousand people have done nothing, and yet they have been declared in force since midnight of May 22. By the way, the NAV sent out the declaration form to 3.3 million people, where it could have declared its 1 percent, promoted it 199 times separately in online media or printed form, on the radio the 1-percent offer was made 1877 times, and on television, the NAV posted 218 ads. I think that the new Sija system, which you did not dispute, is also starting a new life in the lives of civil society organisations: a much greater responsibility must be shown for the submission of 1 percent resources, and a much better activation by advertising, by finding people. I think that this task is not for the authority, not for the NAV, and not for the legislators, but for the civil society organisations themselves. However, as of 1 January 2018, the 2017 LXXVII. One-percent offer options will continue to be simplified by law, such as the envelope will not need to bear the tax identification mark or employers may collect tax taxes on employees and submit them to the tax authorities. I think the regulation and the authorities are doing their best to [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] In order not to reduce the offer, as now it has decreased by 11 percent compared to 2016. Thank you very much.
u2017-09-25-55	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Member Gábor Bányai, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade a question about the creation of 350 new jobs with the title of 13 billion deep-road investment. Congressman Banya, please.
u2017-09-25-56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In the Deep Quarter of my constituency, HUNENT Waterwings Processing Zrt. took place just two weeks ago. the foundation of its new plant. The deep road investment creates 350 new jobs, costing HUF 12.6 billion, for which the Hungarian government provides HUF 4.4 billion in funding. This will be an extremely modern plant, with a capacity and technological development of duck and goose cutting bridge in Europe as a whole. On the 8.8 ha plot of the greenfield project, the built-in area will be over 18 thousand square meters, and by next October, a water wing cutting bridge, a processing plant, a cold and freezing house, and a sewage treatment plant will be built. The investor is HUNENT Zrt. almost two thirds of its turnover comes from exports. Although the company's largest export market is the European Union and Germany, I think it is important that, after Hungary was declared avian influenza-free area again at the end of August, Hungarian duck, goose and poultry products can also return to the Far Eastern markets where they were very popular because of their high quality. Dear Secretary of State, 2010 was also a real watershed for our region. Since the change of regime, almost no one has wanted to invest in this region, which has resulted in the loss of many thousands of jobs. However, the government led by Fidesz-KDNP managed to reverse this trend: since 2012, more than 5,000 new jobs have been created in our region, our constituency. Many people live here from agriculture, and Minister Péter Szijjártó rightly said on the groundstone, when he said that although the automotive industry is the backbone of the Hungarian economy, his soul is agriculture and the food industry. In the rural areas of the Hungarian economy, there is still much room for improvements in the food industry. To further develop this, I would like to ask for further effective assistance from Minister, Secretary of State and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[13.00]]
u2017-09-25-57	Secretary of State, try to answer that question. Here you go.
u2017-09-25-58	I'm trying to do my best, that's what I'm doing. Thank you so much for the opportunity. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I agree that Hunent Zrt. its deep-road investment is an extremely important step in catching up the area, as it is considered to be of great importance in two respects. On the one hand, we are talking about a Hungarian investor, a Hungarian food company, and on the other hand, the food industry, the sector in which, I am convinced, beyond the achievements achieved in recent years, there are still unheard of opportunities and untapped potential. The soul of the Hungarian economy, agriculture, has undergone a major transformation since the government change in 2010. We can all see that if we look around the countryside, because we can find figures such as the increase in exports by 37 percent in the last seven years, agriculture has also increased its share in the national total product to a significant extent, while a rapid and powerful industrial development is also taking place in the sector. In the last seven years, some 50 000 new jobs have been created in agriculture, a significant number in your constituency, honourable Member, which is one of the most important tools for keeping young people in the Hungarian countryside. The government remains a priority in support of food investment in agriculture, as high added value can be provided by this sector. Here, too, we are facing a huge potential for growth, as the figures show that real opportunities are far from being exploited. We are doing everything we can to ensure that we invest in this sector not only in the South Great Plain, but in all areas in Hungary where the food economy is a key component of the local economy. Of course, this requires local initiatives, which is why I would encourage everyone in this House, regardless of their party standing, to look for us with confidence to those who can serve this purpose. Thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-09-25-59	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Imre Horváth, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: "Is it possible to expect that there will be active hospital care in Újpesten again? It's an address. Here you go.
u2017-09-25-60	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, As is known, in 2016, the active hospital care at the Károlyi Sándor Hospital in Újpest was discontinued. Rehabilitation departments currently operating in the hospital with paying and OEP funding are operating under very step-by-step conditions. Just a few thoughts in this regard. There are also six-bedded wards in the paying department, so relatives have to go to the hospital several times a day to bathe and feed their relatives. You should think about that. However, the situation in OEP-funded places is much worse. The promise was that after the hospital was closed, the Honvéd Hospital would expand with a hundred beds, thus increasing the number of active beds. Mr. Secretary, you can't find an extra hundred beds looking for a magnifying glass at the Honvéd Hospital. If you remember, I asked you last year, I got to 46 beds. I was trying to add up the number of beds to increase the number of beds in the hospital. The practice shows that the active hospitalization of Újpest and the agglomeration with 100,000 inhabitants is not smooth. Surgery waiting lists have increased, surgery, and patients spend 10-12 hours in the hospital hallway before surgery. I ask Mr Secretary of State when the health government will see that the residents of Újpest need active hospital care. Is there any progress to be made in this regard? I'm waiting for your answer. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2017-09-25-61	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, who will answer the Member's question.
u2017-09-25-62	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Újpestians can expect Fidesz-KDNP to a much greater extent if they become sick than patients could expect MSZP to, since none of the facilities of Károlyi Hospital have been abandoned, as opposed to the fact that you have not only reported sites but have closed down, the National Psychiatric and Neurological Institute has been permanently closed down. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Oh, my God!]] You have permanently closed the children's hospital in Svábhegy, you have liquidated Schöpf-Mere Hospital, which, I believe, has often been a sure point for families with children. On the other hand, Fidesz-KDNP has tried to ensure the best possible supply conditions for the people of Újpesten and the people of Budapest and the agglomeration. In your area, the IV. and XV. In total, 20 hospitals provided care for patients in the district, so not one hospital, but 20 hospitals. We have tried to provide patients with the highest possible level of care. This could happen in a hospital you call the Honvéd Hospital, in many cases the most progressive way for patients. This year we will spend HUF 22 billion on the development of 17 hospitals in Budapest and 6 hospitals in Pest county, and another HUF 18 billion on planning the development of these hospitals, the hospitals in Budapest and Pest county, including the development of the super hospital in North Pest and the preparation of the plans there are also very closely affecting the residents of Újpest. For them, too, the North-Pest Centre is facing a very large degree of development. But the current buildings of Charles Hospital are also under development. The building will be renovated at the Summer Street site, and they will be able to provide patients with much more comfortable care, even by increasing the number of beds if necessary in the current departments. We hope that everyone who, through the super-hospital developments that start in 2019, will see what conditions are developing both in the super-hospital and in the co-hospitals will be more satisfied than those who write letters to you or anyone else. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-09-25-63	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister for National Development:. Hundreds of billions in danger? When will there be a European-level railway in Hungary again? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-09-25-64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The socialist and fidesz governments spent 850 billion forints on rail development in the EU 2007-2013 period, using them to increase their own oligarchs, and obviously the new favorites such as the Polistor in Felcsút - I would like to say: stróman - in this programming period, too. Despite the huge investment amount, rail transport has stagnated in terms of freight transport, although, in addition to environmental protection and energy saving, the principles of road safety would also be in favour. In passenger transport, there is a spectacular breakdown of the railway, since over ten years the proportion of passenger kilometres travelled has decreased from 35 per cent to 28 per cent. It is no wonder, as fewer and fewer trains are running slower and more late. With the exception of rail passenger comfort, suburban electric trains and GYSEV, it represents socialist times. According to surveys, the Hungarian railway - and this is not the fault of the railwaymen - is the third worst in Europe, only Portugal and Bulgaria are prevented, and Gábor Baross is spinning in his grave. Facts are stubborn, let's see some. Hungarian suburban trains are the most delayed in Europe. Most suburban trains are cancelled here, the average speed of trains is less than 60 km/h, the price of train tickets is one of the highest in the region, calculated on a purchasing power basis. In view of all this, the so-called development of the railway is a huge failure. For which a simple stationmaster in Japan would commit harakiri, there are great rewards for the upper management. Aren't you afraid that the unfulfilled commitments made to the EU, concrete indicators such as access time and poor track speed, will require Hungary to repay hundreds of billions of development money? If you don't give me a god, this is how it happens, will you be responsible for everything? I am also looking forward to your reply to the written questions, which I have added to this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-09-25-65	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-09-25-66	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I'm sorry you're not the railwayman speaking, but a representative of a party who can do anything for money and power. [[Noise from the benches of Jobbik and MSZP.]] and deny the results achieved by your staff since 2010, only in order to be able to represent the interests of your new boss here in Parliament. [[13.10]] Honourable Congressman, In 2010, the Hungarian railway had a debt of HUF 330 billion. Before 2010, the unified Hungarian railway was destroyed into more than 70 smaller and larger companies. A flood of strikes indicated that the railwaymen were far from satisfied with their situation. Honourable Congressman, Railroad debt has decreased to one-sixth in seven years. Currently there is a single Hungarian passenger railway, dozens of motor trains prove the development. It is not true that suburban railways do not perform. Just last year we took over the four lines of the agglomeration in Budapest, which transports 250,000 passengers a day along with 57 Volán flights, free of any disturbances. Mr. Congressman, from 2010 you have peace of work at the Hungarian railway. I ask you to acknowledge the results of the Hungarian railway for the last seven years, in which both the railway and the government are involved, and not to favour your current new boss here in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-25-67	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: - Apart from the promise, what did the Deputy State Secretary do? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-09-25-68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The news has come to our attention these days that he is leaving his office as assistant secretary of state for the aid of persecuted Christians, and according to some sources he is not willing to do so. According to our reports, his dismissal is linked to the fact that the school in Erbil, Iraq, where several press releases suggest that education should have started in September. The Hungarian government supported the building of the school with HUF 120 million and the Hungarian Catholic Bishop's Faculty with HUF 80 million. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, in his statement last autumn, tried, among other things, to prove that we Hungarians do not have stone in the place of our hearts. He said that the Hungarian-based school will serve the education of nearly 700 children. We also do not see the objective, which has already been declared, on its flag, of establishing a Hungarian humanitarian mission. According to the undertaking of the Deputy State Secretary, its task was to provide humanitarian assistance, contact with persecuted Christian communities and to present their situation. Last year, the government set a budget of EUR 3 million, or about HUF 930 million, to help Christian communities who are under attack in the world. We'd like to have some answers to some of our questions. Has the school in Erbil recovered? What have the ten office employees put on the table in the last year as a real result? How many Christians have been saved by the Deputy Secretary of State? How much has been paid for all this, and how much has the function of the Deputy State Secretary been costing taxpayers so far? Is there any change in the funding of the seemingly unsuccessful Deputy State Secretary? And finally: why is another failed program, the 100 million item, undeservingly consuming, come home, young man! Will the new Deputy State Secretary be the brainstormer of the program? I look forward to your answers.
u2017-09-25-69	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-25-70	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think it was a rare moment in the life of Hungarian parliamentarianism when we adopted with five-party agreement a proposal for a resolution which condemned and branded genocide what was done to Christians in the Middle East. We thought that helping persecuted and suffering people was an issue in which a five-party agreement could be reached. This went on until Ron Werber arrived in the LMP faction, since he has since dedicated to you the role that sometimes he says much about what church educational institutions receive, sometimes he says much about what we spend on the Eucharistic World Congress, and now he questions the task of helping persecuted Christians. It's not nice of Ron Werber to assign this task to you, for you were a credible Christian man before I met you. It's obviously part of the Werber tactic to say those words to you. In contrast, we have tried to help persecuted Christians as often as possible in the past year. And, you know, Christian communities there help everyone who comes to them. In eighty lands, there are 200 million Christians who suffer various persecutions. The help taken into place in Iraq was or will be realized in a copy. In St. Joseph's Hospital, Hungary pays the drug requirements for six months. As you mentioned, we are building a school in Erbíl, which is already on the third level. You can see the photos of this school on the Internet. And if your colleagues were to be a little informed about the circumstances there, they would know that such educational activities can be carried out only in a limited manner before the referendum on 2 October. But we hope that after the referendum, education can start in the school building built with Hungarian money, the Hungarian state and Hungarian believers' money. I was there myself, next to the French building next door, and I think we should be proud that Hungary gave us this. We are renovating the city of Telskuf with Hungarian money, helping the Syrian Catholic and the Syrian Orthodox Church's humanitarian and job creation action with 1 million euros. Within the framework of the scholarship programme, nearly a hundred young people start their studies in Hungary, 16 different international organizations attended the Think-tank meeting, in October we hold an international consultation, the exhibition was opened at the Hungarian National Museum last week, and the Minister of State, who is behind you, gives the answer to all other questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-25-71	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Gábor Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. When will there be a school in Siófok? It's an address. By answering this question, Prime Minister Zoltán Balog, Minister of National Resources, who is competent and competent according to the subject, has been appointed. At the request of Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary will answer the question. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-09-25-72	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Years ago, Siófok had to break down the old swimming pool in the town of Siófok, and since then there has been a great need to build a new swimming pool, since Siófok, as is well known, is the largest town on Lake Balaton with a population of 25 000, where today there is virtually no swimming pool facility where children can normally learn how to swim, as they can bring children to swimming education in Galerius baths in the city, but there is only a small swimming pool where the basics of swimming can be shown, there is no swimming pool suitable for normal swimming and normal sports activities in the city to this day. In recent times, every election promised the city there would be a swimming pool, everyone hoped that it would be included in the national state swimming pool construction program. But in 2015, when this program started, Siófok did not get in, but instead received an offer to either build a stadium, renovate a stadium, or there will be no other investment. Everyone hoped that when the state announced a new circle, something might happen and that Siófok would finally be able to build a normal swimming pool. However, Siofok also received a letter, but they will not guess what is in it. Well, not a notice that the 26 newly announced swimming pools included the Siófok project, but they received a letter that if they are bored of football and want to spend their time with something else, Siófok may build a shooting range if he so requests. Dear Secretary of State, We don't need a gun range, believe it or not, Siófok, the biggest city in Lake Balaton, but a swimming pool. So my question is, when will the state provide a source to finally start building a normal swimming pool in the largest city of Lake Balaton, and not to go from tao money to the construction of a tented mobile swimming pool. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-09-25-73	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-25-74	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government has actually set itself the goal of creating a swimming pool where it is not in every Hungarian district. There are many parts of the country, where unfortunately there is no swimming pool or swimming opportunities for students, so the task is much bigger for Fidesz-KDNP than if its predecessors had already started similar programs and at least some swimming pools were built in some parts of the country. The socialists could only afford to adopt a programme, what they were going to build, but then the constructions were slowly cancelled. This is why we had to announce the public education infrastructure development programme, the first stage of which is built in 25 locations, 25 districts in Hungary and 26 additional sites at the second stage. So we try to move from beat to beat in Hungary and build as many swimming pools as possible. [[13.20]] Obviously, it's a matter of whether students have the opportunity to go to some kind of swimming pool somewhere. Here, as you said, there is an adventure bath, which has a swimming pool, which is indeed a small pool, but is suitable for teaching swimming to students. In the competition, walks have an advantage, where there is no possibility for children to learn how to swim. Obviously, the government's intention is to build swimming pools of standard size everywhere, but where there is no possibility, walking is preferred to walking where there is some possibility, students can start learning swimming. That's why the government decided to list the first two beats. But of course, as the first phase is completed and the second phase is started, so will the third phase. As the government has said earlier, it wants to create this in every district in order to provide swimming education for all districts, including here. Tao grants are available in the meantime. Somewhere else, and in other circumstances, the water polo association has managed to achieve results. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-25-75	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question:. Why are they unwilling to speed up the administration of the birth certificate to Hungarians living abroad? It's an address. To answer this question, the Prime Minister appointed Mr. János Lázár, Prime Minister's Head of the Prime Minister's Office, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister Nándor Csepreghy, the Secretary of State will answer the question. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor.
u2017-09-25-76	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In many cases, parents residing abroad cannot bring their children born outside home for months, as it may take at least half a year to obtain the Hungarian certificate of birth for the passport due to the slow administration of the Hungarian authorities. Although Károly Kontrat, State Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, also spoke in 2015, recognising the problem of the government taking the necessary steps to speed up the process, and even the government decree came into force in order to simplify the passport handling of children born abroad, many still encounter this problem. According to the government's office, at least 8,000 cases like this have been stalled. And for children born abroad who have been brought home without a birth certificate, the state will not pay for their medical care until they can prove with a birth certificate that they are Hungarian citizens. This may take several months, though, according to the law, it should be ready in two months. Dear Secretary of State, CHAPTER XXI In the first century, it should be a basis for these administrations to be accessible and smooth. It is not normal that Hungarian families cannot come home because of the speed of administration. Sadly, this phenomenon also shows that the government has renounced a multitude of wandering abroad, and instead of helping them with every means to return home, it only makes their lives more difficult. Dear Secretary of State, According to the data of the Budapest Capital Government Office, only 14,000 children born abroad were asked for registration by Hungarian citizens last year, and the speed of administration has not been resolved for years. I ask the Secretary of State why they have not been able to solve the problem so far, why they refuse to do so. speed up the administration of the birth certificate to Hungarians living abroad. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-25-77	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-25-78	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to answer your points specifically. On the one hand, he claims that it may take six months for the parents to receive the domestic birth certificate for issuing the passport. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is not necessary for children under the age of three to obtain a birth certificate for the issue of a passport for children born abroad. So basically, they can apply to the consular services without the birth certificate issued in Hungary. Your second question, allow me to answer. On 1 January 2016, the government decided that the deadline for the domestic registration of births was reduced from two months to 45 days. And from 1 October this year, the regulation will enter into force, which will allow for the publication of the various documents of Hungarian citizens living outside the border, but the administration took place in Hungary, where we have reversed this system. Not only are applications submitted in the consular service, but cases are handled through it. So the consuls to whom such a request is sent will essentially be entitled to complete the procedure. The number that Congressman quoted is a 2015 number concerning the 8,000 outstanding cases or backlogs. This basically applies to the children of Hungarian citizens living in areas separated from Hungary or Hungary. Among other things, the Transylvanian Hungarians, of whom it is worth recalling the statement of the President Jobbik of Szolnok. The majority of Transylvanian Hungarians, like North American Indians, can be bought with a handful of glass beads, this handful of glass beads was dual citizenship. I'm beginning to think, as bitter as it is to say, that they didn't deserve dual citizenship. The president of Jobbik will continue: in his rounds, there is a greater tendency to be stupid than in Hungary. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is probably why Gábor Vona did not attend the December meeting of MÁÉRT, and that is why you think so about Hungarian citizens across the border. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-25-79	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. If it is really a goal to remove financial obstacles to the further education of young people, why not cancel the tuition, raise the scholarship and give family allowances and tax incentives to students in higher education? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2017-09-25-80	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, The government announced that from October, one of the student loans will be free of interest, and the other will increase the maximum amount to 70,000 from 50,000. According to the LMP, the measures announced will help young people and we therefore welcome this measure. We can always support measures that reduce the burden on young people. We consider it a very important goal to remove the obstacles to further education and to have as many graduates as possible in Hungary. We want at least 4 out of 10 students to have a degree. However, the chances of strengthening the knowledge-based society are getting worse and worse, including further education. For as long as 100,000 students were admitted to higher education in 2010, only over 70,000 have been admitted in recent years. In many cases, the barrier to further education is a financial obstacle. Families and young people are unable to bear the cost of getting a diploma, which means living, housing and tuition. Student loan relief can help, but not nearly enough action. Possibly Other Politics would make higher education free and cancel tuition fees. This is XXI. Company, access to knowledge should be free of charge for everyone! We also need to increase the ridiculously low scholarships today, and we would also like to help young people learn further by extending family allowances and family tax incentives to families where they study in young higher education, and by providing these benefits up to the age of 24. Dear Secretary of State, Will they go on this path? If it is really a goal to remove financial barriers to the further education of young people, why not cancel tuition fees, raise scholarships and give family allowances and tax incentives to higher education students as well? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-09-25-81	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-09-25-82	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I would remind the honourable Member that on 8 March 2008, if I remember correctly, at some point at the beginning of the month, the Hungarian people decided by referendum that there should be no tuition fee in Hungary. This was achieved by Fidesz-KDNP against the socialist government at the time, so that people could make that decision. So it's been guaranteed ever since. The Fidesz-KDNP tried their best to maintain this. We have preserved the solvency of universities, as they have reduced their debt to a fraction, while their cash reserves have increased noticeably in the order of tens of billions. The replacement of previous PPP schemes has contributed to this to a large extent, as well as the additional funding that higher education institutions receive. So, honourable Member, as you bid and bid on promises, Fidesz-KDNP has indeed abolished interest on Student Loan2 and increased the amount of Student Loan1 that young people can use. Now you can bid on this, only in the last 27 years can you see that everyone can promise a tax reduction, but only Fidesz-KDNP can implement a tax reduction. Everyone has been able to promise jobs in the last 27 years, but only Fidesz-KDNP has been able to give people jobs. And a lot of people talked about salary increases in health care, education, government officials, but only Fidesz-KDNP could start those pay increases that are already felt in everyone's wallets. [[13.30]] So Ron Werber may suggest irresponsible promises to the LMP, but this party had an image during András Schiffer's time that he only says things, only promises things that have some basis, or at least thought out, and do not represent ad hoc promises. Therefore, there is no obligation to pay tuition in force. The Fundamental Law also lays down the right to higher education in the framework of the right to culture. In recent years, we have established or expanded new scholarships, such as the new National Excellence Programme, the Klebelsberg Scholarship, Sports Stars Scholarship, Michalicza Scholarship, Scholarship, PhD scholarship from 100 thousand HUF to 140 thousand HUF, in the second two years to 180 thousand HUF. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The National Higher Education Scholarship was raised from 34 to 40,000 forints, and the National Conference of Students' Local Governments also indicates the end of the time by jogging the bell. ) continue to negotiate, as do college building. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-25-83	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: - How many Septembers do we have to wait for children to exercise under normal conditions? It's an address. By answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed Mr Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister János Fónagy State Secretary answers the question. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-09-25-84	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In 2012, daily physical education was introduced, and by 2017 every child in every class has to have five hours of physical education per week. The children are required, but the conditions have not improved since then. In April 2014, the government announced the construction of 25 school hotels and 26 gymnasiums. Then they were very happy to lay the foundation stones, in the pouring rain, with great news of the Putnok foundation stone, and since then, I have been constantly asking for the data on how we stand with the school and gym building. On 8 September 2017, I received the following reply: 13 gymnasiums have already been built and handed over, 7 gymnasiums are supposed to be completed, but for some reason the children still could not use them in September, we do not know about 6 gyms. From the 25 promised schools, which were promised in 2014, we managed to build and hand over only one of them. This is the bell school, and we don't know about your 24-year-old school. In their reply, it was repeatedly stated that some were still only in the design phase. Mr. Secretary, what else do you need to build these gymnasiums? Of course, since then, they've announced the next 25 schools and gymnasiums. I'd like an answer to a question, say, about my gym in Kaba. The gym was built with a one-year delay. Why couldn't the children have used it since September 1st? It's ready, it's beautiful, and the kids can't exercise in it. How many more years does it take for them to recover and then the kids can exercise in it? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-09-25-85	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-25-86	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I am very happy to answer your question in a voice filled with family love [[Defiance.]] In particular, we know that you don't like good memory, but we know that you didn't do much for families at the time, but specifically for the interests of families. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] By the way, the kids are going to work out in the fall. [[Noise, interrogations from the ranks of the MSZP, including Bangóné Borbály Ildikó: When? But when? The president's ringing the bell.]] Please check the calendar for the fall months. Then. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The fact that you are consistently interested in building gymnasiums and school schools is a very good thing, this is their job, it is commendable, and, by the way, it supports our efforts to achieve them as soon as possible. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] School closures were continuous before 2010, and now we're building gymnasiums and swimming pools, but you don't like that. Only the numbers, if you permit, because you asked: in 15 settlements classroom development, 4 schools at the start of school years, 13 settlements gymnasiums, in Csenger a new school, so as painful as it is for you, the system of national public education infrastructure is continuously being built. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] I know that this is in direct conflict with their own government activities at the time. It is difficult for you to tell yourself and your constituents the truth, but, as you said, the facts are facts, and these facilities are built and handed over in a row. I'll see to it that you're invited to these handouts. [[Defiance, noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-25-87	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior: " Will there be a prison in Kunmadaras? It's an address. Mr László György Lukács has the floor.
u2017-09-25-88	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In order to reduce the congestion of prisons, the government launched a programme under which 8 new prisons would be built in our country in a poorer area, in the vicinity of the country, including the Grand Kunmadaras. The prison planned for 1000 prisoners was announced with great press interest in the Grand Kunság. The idea of prison and the promise of job creation, of course, excited the inhabitants of the area, especially with local settlements with an unemployment rate far above the national average, such as Kunmadarason's rate of almost 15 percent unemployed, which shows that every new job is needed as a piece of bread. According to BVOP, the training of prison staff is ongoing, but there is less and less information about the construction, and in some places it can be heard that since the public procurement was unsuccessful because of the high bids, BVOP annulled the previous results and issued a new procurement procedure. It is clear, therefore, that at the promised time, by spring 2017, we are beyond this period, the start of the construction has not been completed, so the project itself is constantly slipping and is expected to continue to slide. True, now you can also hear that there is no, or perhaps never going to be, a very important facility for the locals. Therefore, I ask a series of questions from the honourable Secretary of State to answer, despite the fact that perhaps today's media, today's press, have already reported on them. When will the construction of the Kunmadaras prison begin? Are there any obstacles to building a prison? Is the institution expected to be completed by any means or when? When can this be handed over at all, and what will happen to workers who now work hundreds of miles away because they would have been trained in Kunmadara prison, but they cannot provide work there? And at the end, what is the guarantee that there will be a prison in Kunmadaras? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-25-89	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-25-90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Your party can do anything for money and power [[Uproar, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] and we do not know what they want, because you are asking me a question about building the prison in Kunmadaras, and Gergely Kulcsár's fellow Member will speak here against the construction of the prison hospital in Berettyóújfalu. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] So we don't know what they want. All I know is that I want power, power and money, they're capable of anything. And while we are at it, it is linked to justice: according to press reports by your MEP Béla Kovács, he has once again fled abroad. If all is true, he's laying low in Mongolia right now, so in the absence of the betterman accused of espionage and budget fraud, the document was filed in the courthouse last week. It remains a mystery how much support the better-looking MEP has given Jobbik, what has been asked for in return, and how many others is Béla Kovács in your party, honourable Member? It's about the man that even their party president said in an interview that he heard some unsettling things about his case. It would be time, honourable Member, to tell us how long you were thinking about watching this happen. As far as the prison building project is concerned, the plans have been presented to you, and the government has made a decision on the expansion of the prison space, and we will keep people informed about the implementation. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-25-91	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of LMP, wishes to ask a question to the Minister without a wallet for the design, construction and installation of two new blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor. [[13.40]]
u2017-09-25-92	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Although the Orbán government is trying hard to hide the facts of the Paks expansion project from Hungarian taxpayers, thanks to the press, what contracts MVM Paks II concludes as the most political paying place. Zrt. However, we do not know why the company responsible for the Paks expansion entrusted T-Systemset with the task of conducting a study on the cybersecurity requirements of the power plant to be built for nearly HUF 8 million in public money. When daily experience in the world is the hacking of elections and the paralysis of computer systems for energy systems, there can hardly be a more serious security challenge than guaranteeing the IT security of a nuclear power plant. This work is entrusted to someone whose ability to design an electronic ticket system was exceeded, whose system was also hacked by a high school student, and whose dilettantism enabled thousands of users to steal data, is more than irresponsible. We know that the T-group has a special relationship with the Orbán government, as the company that owned the Origot proved to be a partner in decapitating the portal exposing the hotel scandal of János Lázár and playing it close to Fidesz, which was rewarded by the government with gallant public funds. It is believed that such a business could have led to a cybersecurity mandate for T-Systems; this is much more likely than to be the result of convincing references. At the same time, the case raises questions about the quality of governance and about nuclear safety. Therefore, please inform me whether you wish to continue to put the Orbán Cabinet at risk the safety of the Hungarian nuclear energy sector and the domestic population in order to be able to repay the previous political favors as a result of agreements in a vague settlement. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much. [[Erzsébet Schmuck applauds.]]
u2017-09-25-93	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Attila Aszodi. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-25-94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I assume you're doing your job very carefully, as we are doing; and I assume that before you asked that question, you were informed about this IT company. If you did so, you could find with a very simple Internet search that this company gained 73 billion forints of revenue with about 1500 employees in 2016. Therefore, the amount of the study in your question could hardly have affected the profitability of this large IT company. [[Márta Demeter: That's not the question.]] With regard to the content of your question, I would like to inform you that the planning of nuclear power plants consists of a lot of steps, the different systems must be designed, approved, and one of these plans is a very important plan of physical protection. In line with international practice, Hungarian legislation requires that the physical protection plan also ensure the protection of programmed systems. In order to make this plan, the Paks II. a project company has decided to carry out a risk analysis with a dedicated, relevant and competent specialist company. Specific procurement was carried out by inviting five companies to tender in 2016, when they decided to obtain this risk analysis on programmed systems. Two out of the five companies submitted a valid offer and selected the company offering the cheaper and higher professional content of the two bidders. The work was carried out by very serious experts of international reputation, and the results were made by Paks II. He was evaluated by his internal professional jury, so this work was accepted. I very much hope that you will accept my answer and welcome in you a new member of your faction, who is the Paks II. follow up with a positive approach, in a transparent and expert way. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-25-95	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Egyed, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of National Development:. What about you, 26? It's an address. It is for Congressman Zsolt Egyed.
u2017-09-25-96	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I've asked this question several times over the past year about the construction of the bypass. A year has passed again, but no substantial progress has been made, although there have been a good number of promises that can be considered serious. I am thinking, for example, of the promised transfer in 2010, where licences were valid until 2011. Then in 2014 MEP Zoltán Demeter gave his word in a press release that the road section would be completed by 2016, but in vain, the actions were cancelled. Not a single square meter of road has been built since the promises. The policy of the last 27 years was nothing but bullshit instead of action. However, the section of the road is of particular importance, as BorsodChem Zrt passes through here. the transport of goods, as well as the transport of motorists to the border crossing of Bárrave. The resulting noise, air pollution, and the daily transport difficulties of the Sayószentpéterians have become unbearable today, it is almost impossible to cross the city at peak hours before 20-25 minutes. Therefore, Jobbik will end this charade with the public: together with the people of Sajószentpéter and Kazincbarcika who are most concerned with the question, we have started to collect signatures for the construction of the bypass section of Highway 26 and I am proud to say that there is huge social support behind our initiative, which will continue in the future; with a Hungarian heart, common sense and clear hands! I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, what prevents the government from starting the section of Highway 26 bypassing Sajószentpéter, as promised? When is construction expected to begin? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-25-97	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, answers the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-09-25-98	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, Route 26 has a long history, and I would like to note here that Sajószentpéter and Kazincbarcika would have been a step forward if they had started collecting signatures when Péter Medgyessy walked the valley of Sajó and promised 800 kilometers of highways, including the bypass road to Sajószentpéter. By the way, your promise failed before the Prime Minister himself, but it's history. The Government decision on the coordination and implementation of infrastructure investments related to Hungary's short- and medium-term road development by 2022 has compiled a list of projects, which is otherwise open from above and will be reviewed every quarter. This decision includes the M30 motorway in the same area, which is the road connecting Miskolc to Košice, which is one of the biggest fast-track investments in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County. In order to improve road accessibility in Ozd, the government has decided to implement roads 23 and 25 between Bátonyterénye and Ozd, and we are very confident that, in accordance with the decision, we will already have an export and authorisation plan here in the first quarter of 2020. Moreover, on this basis, the Minister for Development must report quarterly on the implementation of these projects in detail, in order to achieve them and to ensure a common function of the resources available. The government decides on new demands. For a moment, not to argue that the road avoiding Sajószentpéter, which solves not only Sajószentpéter's approach, but also Edelény's approach, is important for the people who live there, so the government will take these into account in the coming period. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I trust that you were not guided by the interests of the party, but by good intentions, so I ask you to accept this answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-25-99	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Defence: It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-09-25-100	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. There's a strange phenomenon in the operation of the defense wallet. Today, they also hide from the public information that was answered a year ago. Last year, it was possible to know how many volunteers are in the army's reserve of operations, how the Gripek's air-to-ground capability was developed, as well as where the attempt to renew the rigid winged transport capacity was. Of course, the fact that the answers were more than worrying, but at least they were. [[13.50]] Today, however, they refuse to answer what was explained in detail last year. And what's the problem with that? First of all, they are not classified data, so people have the right to know the state of the Hungarian Defense, what their tax dollars are spent on. For their money, they expect the state to maintain and develop a modern and effective force. Secondly, you are hindering not only the work of your representatives, but also the implementation of civilian control. This is a significant step backwards compared to recent years. Thirdly, in the budget of the defence portfolio, tens of billions of HUF are not known how it will be used and what it will be used for, so there is a huge risk of corruption, while the technical equipment will rot and the defence will drift to the limit of its inability to function. As an expert minister, the Minister of Defence has a greater responsibility in this regard than ever, since he is well aware of what should be done, and yet does so. Mr. Secretary. You can try to lie to me and to the public, but on the one hand, you can't tell the army because they know exactly the gravity of the situation, and on the other hand you know that sooner or later everything will come out. So I ask the Secretary of State why they refuse to answer the questions that they did last year. Is it that bad in the Hungarian Army? And my last question is, do you continue this exercise? Thank you.
u2017-09-25-101	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Tamás Vargha. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-25-102	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'd like to reassure you that there's no strange phenomenon in the operation of the defense wallet. Neither in the past nor in the past, we are hiding anything from the public or the Members, but you know it best, Madam Congresswoman, because you get answers to your oral and written questions on a weekly basis. Not to mention that when he came to us with a request for access to the file, we always received him and gave him a personal answer. But if you are a prepared politician, you should know that there are information that is public and that there are some that are not. [[Márta Demeter: Last year it was public...]] You can find important public information on the media's defence sites, as well as information that hundreds of new modern and multifunctional buses are enriched by the defences they manufacture at the Ikarus factory in Székesfehérvár. [[Márta Demeter intervenes several times.]] This is, on the one hand, technical development and, on the other hand, state resources spent on force reform are strengthening the domestic economy. This acquisition also contributes to the Hungarian Defence Corps becoming a decisive force in Eastern-Central Europe at the end of the programme for defence and military development. If you and your current station, LMP would have considered it really important to develop the defence. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] Then you would have come to the meeting of the Defence Committee, where the Minister presented the programme; you would have supported the civilian government's actions on defence capabilities and the development of the defence budget, but you did not. It is therefore clear that, if it were up to you, the defence would have deteriorated, and this, knowing the complex dangers caused by illegal migration, the pressure on our southern borders or the level of terrorist threats in Europe, would be fatal for the security of our country and Hungarian families. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Your speech is an eloquent proof that Mr Werber has started his activities and is proof that there can be no other policy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-09-25-103	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Editor Sebestyén, Jobbik's representative, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. On the basis of their recommendations, do they help people with reduced mobility to live a life of self-determination? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-09-25-104	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The National Association of Disabled Associations published a publication entitled "Living in Self-Service," which was presented last Thursday at the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. The professional material was compiled by a working group of stakeholders under the guidance of the facilitation. The compilation presents today's Hungarian reality from the perspective of stakeholders and makes recommendations to decision-makers. In 2017, ten years after the ratification of the UN Convention, Hungary is still one of the biggest problems in Hungary is the lack or shortcomings of accessibility. From the point of view of an independent living, it is essential that a disabled person is able to reach the educational institution from his/her accessible home, so that he/she can prepare for work, work, access to his/her work and access to a barrier-free healthcare facility, so that his/her health is also adequate for work. And then I didn't even talk about official affairs, cultural and entertainment opportunities. To put it mildly, we are in a very bad position on these issues, but what can we expect when, according to the Mayor of Budapest, there is absolutely no need to take into account accessibility issues when renovating the M3 metro. Dear Secretary of State, In my view, the recommendations lay down minimum requirements which could easily be achieved by redeploying resources for unreasonable expenditure. On this basis, I ask: are you willing to take into account the requests made by stakeholders in these recommendations? In the near future, I will propose their implementation in the form of separate motions. I hope I can count on the support of the governing parties and the government. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-09-25-105	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-25-106	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You yourself must have noticed, Congressman, that there were several actors on the part of the EMMI at the presentation of this publication. Minister Pál Szekeres also participated in this presentation, precisely because the government is committed to achieving these goals, it is there at all such consultations, and we ourselves, either with Meos or with disability organisations, are trying to keep in constant contact with them. There is a well-built dialogue system, which has provided a preparatory and proposing role in many of the achievements achieved in recent years. This is how the National Disability Programme Action Plan was set up, which provides for a total of 80 concrete actions between 2015 and 2018, i.e. during this period. These are all for the purpose that you have cited, to facilitate the implementation of an independent lifestyle. Physical accessibility is important in this, and infocommunication accessibility is important in this. For example, our EFOP-1.1.5 application, the total amount of which is HUF 4 billion, partly by designing remote services, aims to ensure the fullest possible life for these fellow citizens.In 2016, we doubled the framework that serves the accessibility of the apartments. In addition, the amount that can be applied for here can now be used once more every ten years for further improvements, which will help to make the home accessible. Our goal is also to have at least one kindergarten, kindergarten or primary educational institution at the district level where there is full access to any disabled person. Not less in health institutions; here, the accessibility of transport has been largely achieved, in most places accessible elevators have also been installed. Braille inscriptions can also be found in the institutions, and at reception desks we created an induction loop for hearing-damaged people. The EMMI is developing a modern programme to improve access to culture with the aim of audio-arration, and we have also developed a programme to sign up the programmes. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But, as I said, there are 80 measures that we want to implement in the coming years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-09-25-107	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question:. Prison Hospital in Berettyóújfalu? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-09-25-108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, On October 8, there will be a local referendum in Berettyó's new village about whether people want to know a prison hospital in their city or not. This could also be a celebration of democracy if the Fidesz gentlemen hadn't mixed up the cards, but properly. The question was asked by the pro-government representatives who initiated the referendum, that if someone does not want a prison hospital, they must vote in favour, and those who want to vote in favour, and those who do not. Many lies have been caught by city leaders right at the beginning of the campaign. Mayor István Muraköz said that they said yes on government request when they initiated the construction of a prison hospital next to the current city hospital. On the other hand, Minister János Lázár said on one of the government briefings that Berettyóújfalu volunteered for the project. Now who lies: István Muraközi or János Lázár? It is also interesting that Lazarus stated at that event that if the local people do not want the institution in question, it will not recover in the new village of Berettyó. On the other hand, city leaders suggest that even if the referendum is not valid, the prison hospital will be built, even if the marked majority of voters reject it. If I remember correctly, the quota referendum was not effective, but the government and Fidesz communicated that people had rejected resettlement quotas. Dear Secretary of State, Please answer any questions that may arise. Did the mayor of Berettyó New Village volunteer to have such an institution in his city? Why would the government want to transport criminals here, to the east end of the country, when it would be reasonable to set up a prison hospital in the middle of the country? [[14.00]] You think it doesn't matter what the result of the referendum is; if the participation doesn't exceed 50 percent, they'll build the prison hospital? By the way, Jobbik's position is clear: Bihar's people don't want criminals. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What about the Jobbik fraction?]] they want to continue to live in a safe settlement, to heal in a safe hospital. I ask you, Secretary of State, to answer these questions, and I ask you to ignore the propaganda text. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-25-109	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Károly Kontra will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-09-25-110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I don't understand you. Just now, Congressman Luke on the matter of the Kunmadara prison. [[Dr. László György Lukács: The two things are completely different! Too bad you don't understand your field.]] Asked a question and stood up to the Kunmadarasi... [[Dr. László György Lukács: The two things are completely different! The president's the bell. György László László Lújkács: No matter how many bells you ring, it's true!]] Medic for Congressman.
u2017-09-25-111	Congressman! I don't remember Mr. Secretary interrupting. Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. Please listen to the response. Thank you.
u2017-09-25-112	So this proves that your party can do anything for money and power, Congressman. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Márton Gyöngyösi: It's a little logical problem!]] To do this, he can also deceive people. I would like to say that if the prison hospital were to be built in the new village of Berettyó, public safety would not be compromised, the settlement would still be in order. By the way, if necessary, we'll strengthen the police forces in Berettyo New Village. According to the efforts of Hungary over the last seven and a half years, we are in one of the world's safest countries, the first ten. We would like to provide high-quality order and public security in all the settlements of Hungary in the future. I am very sorry that you are capable of anything for political gain. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: We ask questions.]] The benefits of this investment, which, if it were to be realised, would give work to hundreds of people, even after construction, would improve the instrumentality of the hospital, and could also be in the interest of the people living there. I would like to point out that the government will always respect the decision of the local people here as well. The result of the local referendum will be established on 8 October, and no decision will be taken on the construction of a new prison health centre until then, and we hope, honourable Member, that people will see their interests clearly and make a decision that suits the interests of the settlement and their interests. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-25-113	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Now it's 2:14 a.m., we've reached the end of the discussion of the questions, and now we're going to continue with the immediate questions. Dear Parliament, László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Is this democracy for you? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr István Simicskó Minister for Defence to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or whether he asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally. [[On Dr. László Kács's signal:]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Gergely Bárándy, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question with the title "Friends, Friends, and Others." Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he is asking Mr President himself for an answer.
u2017-09-25-114	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll wait for Mr. President, although his criminal record has increased by two since the last week...
u2017-09-25-115	Thank you very much, Congressman...
u2017-09-25-116	...so if this goes on, it's gonna be a long list. Thank you.
u2017-09-25-117	I've been waiting for your answer, thank you. I would like to inform the Member that the President must answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: do they also feed children with communication? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask Mrs. Congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Minister herself for an answer.
u2017-09-25-118	Thank you, Mr. President, but I'd like to wait for Minister. Thank you very much.
u2017-09-25-119	I would like to inform Congresswoman that the Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question: Is this the way out? It's an address. Minister János Fónagy has appointed Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[For signal:]] The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-09-25-120	[[Without sound:]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President...
u2017-09-25-121	Congressman, please place or correct your card.
u2017-09-25-122	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is also known to the Secretary of State, that on 31 August this year the mayor of Pécs was placed under guardianship, and it is a Fidesz party committee in Pécs that has been involved in the affairs of the city since then, preparing decisions and making decisions instead. [[Sándor Font: You remember the good old days!]] After all, the mayor had a hard time, I think, for the third time, finding out how many Pécs city bills were not paid. First he said 5 billion, later he admitted that it could be about HUF 7.5 billion, and then Viktor Orbán came to Pécs - to sum up the events - and told them to correct the mistakes made by those who spoiled things. Well, we can see that they don't know, but the government let go of the hands of the Pécs, and as we can see, they're only willing to help the 145 thousand Pécs, if they get something for that, so it's good for the government, and it's good for the people close to the government. We can very much see that a city is on the verge of bankruptcy, and although the city is dying, we can see that it has lost students, it is losing its population, but you are not waiting for the end hours, you are carrying the family silver away. Press reports say that the Pécs-pogány airport will be bought by the state and then rented to the Rosatom immediately. Is that true, Mr. Secretary? Why don't you let the government of Pécs, why don't you let this company that belongs to the Pécs collect the rent? Is it true that the government, in exchange for the help of getting the Pécs out of the financial mess, wants to get their hands on the utility companies, the Tettye Forthouse, which provides drinking water, or the heat supplier? Is it true that they want to take our properties in Pécs' frequented locations so that they can be used by you later? These are my questions.
u2017-09-25-123	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-25-124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As they say, there is a short and there is a longer answer. The short answer is no, the longer answer is that the answer to each of your questions is no. But if I'm not looking at Pécs's situation right now, then allow me to look back with you into the past. Pécs' debt was settled by the current government as well as the other 3,200 Hungarian settlements, including the 26 major cities, whose debt was due to billions. Pécs's legacy was also very pregnant, and his task was also. You also remember that, when Pécs still has the title of the capital of culture, God rest his soul, but under socialist leadership, he has taken on development beyond his power, which has been built by Pécs, and I must say, the country's otherwise beneficiary, whether this is the cultural center, be this Zsolnay, everything else. At the same time, Pécs did not properly measure the burden of this. The fact is, indeed, that the current indicators of the city of Pécs, under the different classifications of cities with more than 100,000 inhabitants, are not very favourable, but Pécs has a legitimate, elected mayor, has a legitimate, elected government, the government and I am sure that these people, who are in the confidence of the voters of Pécs in the present place, will be in control of this situation and will remedy the current situation. I repeat: the answer to your questions is no. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-25-125	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. I give the floor to Congressman László Szakács in return. Here you go, Congressman. [[14.10]]
u2017-09-25-126	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So you're not gonna buy the state, are you, the Pécs-pogány airport? Then, I guess the Ministry will start press trials, and you will win them. If not, then what you said is not credible, Mr. Secretary. I am very pleased that the ECOC investments were pleased by the Secretary of State, and we too were very happy about it, then, be kind enough to tell the Members of Pécs that, because of the debt pool that was used for the loans received, they were not constantly pointing back today as well as pointing back at what happened before 2009, even though you, as you rightly say, consolidated this city. On January 15, 2015, Zsolt Páva, Mayor of Pécs, says that the city has two million forints in debt, and now 7.5 billion. What are you so proud of, Mr. Secretary? How the government will help the Pécs, is our question, because at the moment it is that the working capital is being removed from the city, the family silver is being taken away, and the Pécs will be left with the increased taxes precisely because of this leadership. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-09-25-127	Thank you, Congressman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-09-25-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. The government does not need to prosecute and win lawsuits against the press that has been waving news ducks in order to prove its truth and to increase its confidence. I repeat: I am sure that the legally and democratically elected leadership of Pécs will be in control of this situation with the mayor. Please don't talk about selling family silver, there's not really any family silver there, and you've already moved it from there. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] on the other hand, please do not put your assumptions in front of the public in this House as a statement. I repeat: at present, neither the airport nor any other claims are based on any kind of reality. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-25-129	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: When do you switch from the international capital side to the Hungarian employees' side? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr István Simicskó Minister for Defence to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2017-09-25-130	Thank you, Mr. President, I'll wait for the Prime Minister. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-25-131	I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "The government of fairy tales." It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr István Simicskó Minister for Defence to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the congressman if he accepts the person of the responder. [[György Szilágyi: I accept.]] Or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally. You have the floor.
u2017-09-25-132	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, They may remember the world of fairy tales, folk tales from their childhood, where in general the recurring element was the simple poor boy going out to try his luck, meeting the king, doing good services for him, and then getting the right reward. Well, whether there are such folk tales today, such fairy tales in the Hungarian government today, in Fidesz: yes, there are, for example, Flórian Farkas. The simple punished poor boy goes off, tries to try his luck, meets the great man, who in our case is not king, just simply godfather, godfather of a gangster government, gives him good services, delivers cheap votes, buyable votes, and therefore he can do whatever he wants, steal from public money, take away the money that we all have. I'm sure you'll remember that in March 2016 the EMMI announced that ÖRO For its catching-up project, he makes an indictment report, citing irregularities, and reclaims the HUF 1.6 billion grant, which was simply removed. We thought that from now on Flórian Farkas was finished as Prime Minister's Commissioner, we expected that he might be recalled from Parliament, but that was not the case, since you renewed the election cooperation at the end of May 2017, László Kövér signed with Flórian Farkas and said how beautiful life was. Then came September 2017, when it turned out that Flórian Farkas' driver bought a property in Buda for hundreds of millions of forints at a state auction to be stylish for fairy tales, a XII. The former driver of Flórián Farkas bought the property of the district fairy hill for HUF 509 million. I'm asking you, couldn't this money come from that 1.6 billion? Don't you care where that money came from for Flórian Wolf's driver? You and your fairy tales are the only ones with such a large fortune that could be a gasman or a driver. I ask where the recovery of this amount of HUF 1.6 billion is, and by what means can you ensure that this money is returned to public finances. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-25-133	Thank you. I give the floor to Minister for Defence István Simicskó. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-09-25-134	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Certainly, the Member has not been overlooked by the government's strict action against corruption that has occurred in recent times. We announced zero tolerance. [[Depletion in the lines of the LMP.]] [[Depletion in the lines of the LMP.]] This is why we have included in the Fundamental Law the responsible management of state assets, which is why we have one of the most stringent procurement laws in Europe (Development in the LMP lines). ), which is why the government repressed VAT fraud, which is why it has transformed the EU application system. Not least today, every company that starts a tender has to reveal the real ownership background. The new government has also done a lot in the fight against the black economy. One key to this is the introduction of an online cash register that makes it difficult [[Depletion in the lines of the LMP.]] concealing corporate revenues and helping to reduce black employment. Another significant step is the introduction of the electronic toll system in 2015 - this will prevent VAT fraud related to transport. What I could say to your question is that if you look at it, the Hungarian economy is growing and growing. If they notice, and as a responsible Member of Parliament, we must see that wages are also increasing [[Depletion in the lines of the LMP.]] , educators, soldiers, policemen and those committed to all occupations will increase their wages, the family support system will increase, the conditions for people's well-being will be guaranteed by the government, not to mention their safety, as the government will perform its tasks fairly. If you see any signs of abuse, [[Depletion in the lines of the LMP.]] Then it is safe to press charges, calmly, functioning and reliably the system of justice, Hungary is a predictable, safe state, and I believe that this is the way we need to proceed. Thank you very much. That is how I can summarize your question. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-25-135	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi in return. Here you go.
u2017-09-25-136	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, it looks like you thought it was a good story and kept going. [[A statement from the ruling parties, Mr. Minister, but it's okay.]] He talked about zero tolerance, Flória Farkas sitting here, talking about online cash registers, of course, only Andy Vajna doesn't need it, and the hairdresser needs it for everyone, and Andy Vajna doesn't need it. And then we can talk about bond business and everything else about their big zero tolerance. Perhaps, by the way, the Secretary of State thought that, seeing that the Fidesz Members were not here many people, that they might have fallen asleep from the story, that was what he meant. Mr Secretary, I have some bad news: Hungarian society is starting to wake up. Good morning to you, too. They're gonna wake up, and they're gonna replace you, and they're gonna get you out of here. Either you account for Wolf Florian until 2018, or if you don't, we'll have him accounted for, believe me. People like you who steal all of our money should be in jail. I think we should investigate these cases and not cover for Flórian Farkas, who is still sitting here as Prime Minister's Commissioner. They should be ashamed of themselves rather than trying to feed Hungarian society with fairy tales! [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-25-137	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, István Simicskó Minister for Defence has a rejoinder. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2017-09-25-138	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. The truth is, I've always been one of those politicians who try to maintain their patience, and I recommend everyone to do so. I don't think it's necessary to build the country with vehemence and invigoration, but calmly, with actions. The Hungarian government can account for all its actions, and the Hungarian people can live and thrive in safety. That's how we'll work in the future. We put up this flag and move the country forward calmly, consistently, to serve the welfare of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-25-139	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of National Development an immediate question:. You think it's okay for a Fidesz foundation to be given a purpose... [[For signal:]] [[14.20]] Congresswoman Bernadett Wind does not have her card, so I cannot give the floor to Mrs Bernadett Wind. Dear Parliament, There was only one technical problem, this page was missing from the script, so now we're rebooting the clock again. So, Honourable Parliament, Bernadett Szél and Márta Demeter, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Where is the Orbán plan? It's an address. Prime Minister István Simicskó appointed Minister for Defence to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the response or asks the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2017-09-25-140	Mr President, thank you, we will wait for the Prime Minister to answer in person.
u2017-09-25-141	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Congresswoman that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who is right? It's an address. Prime Minister István Simicskó appointed Minister for Defence to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2017-09-25-142	Thank you, I'd like to wait until the luxury plane gets home.
u2017-09-25-143	I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question: "Where do the hundreds of billions go? It's an address. Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person who is responding, or whether she asks Mr President for the answer in person. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Yes, I accept. Thank you very much, Mr. President.]] You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-09-25-144	Mr. Vice President, At the beginning of the summer, the Supervisory Board of the MNB submitted its annual report on the activities of the National Bank from June 2016 to May 2017. In this report, the Hungarian National Bank realised a profit of HUF 889 billion from the foreign exchange stock revaluations resulting from the decline in the rate of HUF. The report also states that the profits were used to cover the amazingly large purchase of castle, fork and other real estate for the MNB and its foundations. We don't know what happened to the rest of the realised profits, and we don't know what they're planning to do with it. The huge amount of public spending and urination continues, and as we have heard today: it spends millions of dollars on the MNB's staff travel abroad, the MNB opens foreign offices, completely unwarranted, to offer well-paying jobs to those close to Fidesz. So far, these offices have been spent 1.2 billion forints. In doctoral schools supported by the MNB, a grant of HUF 300,000 is also paid to MNB officials with a salary of millions; while a university professor receives only about HUF 200,000 net after 10-15 years of work. According to the LMP, as we have already said several times before, the central bank must abolish its foundations and pay the amount released into the state register, together with 80% of the annual profits, because it is the Hungarian taxpayer's money and not the property of the Matolcsy family. For example, the amount could be used to help foreign exchange legitimists, from whom the MNB's winnings took more than HUF 130 billion, and who are still led by eviction and hopelessness. After all this, I ask you: will you finally see that the profits realised at the HUF exchange rate do not belong to the narrow elite of the MNB, but to the Hungarian society as a whole?
u2017-09-25-145	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Vice President Martin the Great. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2017-09-25-146	Thank you so much. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Honourable Members, Congresswoman! First of all, let me say that the result of the central bank is a rather complex thing, so I'm not going to start telling you in detail how it's created. I always say that if you pursue a good monetary policy, it can also lead to an effective central bank. This has happened in recent years in the case of the central bank. He conducted a good monetary policy, converted the foreign exchange loan of foreign exchange lenders, giving the general public a thousand billion HUF transfer. We can see where the Swiss franc is now. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: We can see where the population is!]] We can see where the other exchange rates are, and we can ask if the conversion was actually successful. I think that there is no question between us whether this has been successful. It can also be seen that the central bank manages its results effectively and properly, can place its results either in profit or pay them as dividends to the owner. We have seen examples of both, and in 2016 the central bank paid essentially 50 billion into the budget, but at the same time it has already put its 2016 result in a profit reserve and has managed properly and responsibly to provide an adequate reserve for future unexpected events. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the outcome of the central bank has not only been derived from the revaluation, which is generated in the foreign reserves, but also has an interest rate, as a result of the fact that the central bank's base rate has fallen to a historic low point, and the long yields in recent weeks are also at historical low levels. And of course, you never mention that the returns in the country have never been so low, the returns within the year are in a negative category, which means that the savers pay to the state to lend, the rest of the country pays to the Hungarian State in essence to lend. They also forget that long returns are actually at a very low level. This means a very, very positive interest rate result for the central bank, which we save. Overall, it should be said that this is a responsible farming and spent on foundations with adequate social responsibility, which can create value in educational activities and have an interest in safeguarding assets. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-25-147	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return.
u2017-09-25-148	Mr Vice President, LMP did not question the monetary policy of the Hungarian National Bank. But we keep questioning how the profits you've made are used by you. This is simply unacceptable! You mentioned as a result that when foreign exchange lenders were converted into foreign currency, they won more than HUF 130 billion on this. This is also totally unacceptable. It is unacceptable that in foreign exchange credulists, who have committed suicide, who are going abroad, who pay back three to four times the amount they have taken in, who have gone into debt slavery, you are making a profit on them! This is simply unacceptable! And we will resubmit the bill in which we proposed that the Hungarian National Bank pay 80% of its profits to the state register. It should be in the state register, because if you are going to lose money, then the Hungarian budget will have to pay it, and it is only fair that if the loss is covered by the budget, then you will pay the profits in the state register.
u2017-09-25-149	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr. Vice President will have a rejoinder. You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2017-09-25-150	Thank you very much. However, let me note that what the National Bank of Hungary does with its result, its profits, is regulated by the National Bank Act. [[Intercom from the Jobbik faction.]] That's right, it's approved by Parliament. It is a valid law at the moment, but I also note that the opinion of the European Central Bank must also be sought, as it is a law concerning its independence. I also note that at the National Bank of Hungary, if the National Bank generates losses, the budget must stand, and if it generates profits, the central bank will decide how to manage it. But once again, the fact that you're saying you're spending this, I refuse. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: You will never be President of the Central Bank!]] because you have to look at how much money there is in the profit and loss reserve, how much money there is in the National Bank's profit and loss reserve, and then say that you spent it. The 130 billion forints you mention are in your income reserve. There it is, exactly this amount in your income reserve, but this cannot be spent by the central bank on the account of foreign exchange taxpayers, this can be done by the budget or by the government. It's a budget item. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Then the paintings are of another!]] [[14.30]] And once again, let us not forget that much of what you miss has happened in the past. This government and the central bank gave a thousand billion to foreign exchange taxpayers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-25-151	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Kristóf Szatmáry, a representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:, How long are the threads of the Czeglédy scandal? It's an address. Minister Pál Völner has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[Kristóf Szatmáry: I accept.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-09-25-152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In fact, the Hungarian public is now facing weeks, months of a left-wing crime telecomic, with more and more details each week, starring Csaba Czeglédy, with the extras of MSZP and DK. What do you know about this crime cartoon so far? It was already well known that Csaba Czeglédy was sentenced to a final fine for fraud in 2005, but it did not interfere with the MSZP or DK in naming him as a joint candidate or bothering Ference Gyurcsány or László Botka to employ him as a domestic lawyer. The new turn of events, not learning from previous cases, is that between 2013 and 2016 students were employed by the organization that led them without paying the contributions, causing some HUF 3 billion in damage to the budget. Perhaps the picantria of the case is that it is not just a tax evasion, but perhaps, as a qualified case, thousands of student workers have not been paid by the young socialist representative. Everyone should judge by their temperament that, in addition, they have put in their pockets a gross monthly salary of HUF 2.5 million during this period. The next part was published this week, that some information in the press is also about Zoltán Készprém's left-wing representative being involved, as two suspects and two companies from Veszprém County were involved, and according to press reports Csaba Czeglédy personally ran Zoltán Készprém's campaign in 2015. I'm sure 13 people in advance are wondering how many left-wing politicians this crime could reach. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-25-153	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-25-154	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, Indeed, all well - feeling people were shocked by the fact that the masses of students were not paid for by this left - side mafia network, which operated a school cooperative, whose leader and boss was Czeglédy. Students still apply for free legal aid to the student enterprise association to remedy this situation in the courts. This is one of the biggest corruption scandals of the past period. So even after 2010, the socialists did not give up corruption. It started in Szombathely, but it's really all over the country. He also showed up in Veszprém County. Fourteen members of this network, including Csaba Czeglédy himself, are currently under pre-trial arrest. Indeed, the Veszprém county threads can reach Zoltán Késztő, as Kész was strongly involved in his campaign. Zoltán Készt should also clarify his relationship with the lawyers of MSZP, Gyurcsány and Botka. These elections are so important. and not only because it appears to be politically committed, but also because it operated this criminal network itself in Veszprém County. [[Anita Bering: What you're saying smells like sweat!]] According to press reports, in recent days a petition was sent to the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office - when it comes to the smell of sweat and we hear about the MSZP, it doesn't surprise us anyway - in which it said that Csaba Czeglédy's strong men in Veszprém County had the task of covering the tracks, activate the sleeping companies, have witnesses who could testify to the network. If the motion is deemed justified, there will be another criminal investigation. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-25-155	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to Mr Kristóf Szatmáry in return. Here you go.
u2017-09-25-156	Thank you very much. We cannot be current enough in the telebook, as today's news is that it is true, as a witness, but they also listen to Csaba Czeglédy in connection with a student association in Macedonia, where by his very similar method 400 million forints were stolen in VAT payments. So we're going beyond the Danube, and we're getting close enough to South Hungary. So there could be another thread in this case. By the way, the interesting thing is, listening to today's answers is that there are two kinds of corruption cases. There are suspected or visualized corruption cases, and there are real corruption cases, real criminal organizations, and unfortunately, the real ones remain connected to the left, MSZP and DK. We would like these matters to be clarified as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-25-157	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-25-158	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to add that, as we know, Ferenc Gyurcsány and László Botka have a close relationship with Csaba Czeglédy. László Botka also lives in South Hungary, so it is not surprising that the macoon thread appears. But it is likely that both Czeglédy and the others will enjoy the privilege of MNB Zrt. Zsolt Császy was personally escorted by Ferenc Gyurcsány to the gates of the penitentiary by Ferenc Császy, rewarding the omerta for concealing his accomplice, which, by the way, Gyurcsány openly stated that they were actually sitting down for him. I think that we will probably have a similar outcome in this case, too, unless Csaba Czeglédy cooperates with the authorities and gives out his clients and the way to the money, how they migrated to the party in the direction of the MSZP. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-25-159	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "How much longer? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[Nándor Gúr: Yes.]] Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. You have the floor.
u2017-09-25-160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. We have come to the point in Hungary that, according to your own declaration, 32,000 more people will die than they should die. Research results support all of this; you know it. But if we look not at health care, but at the education system, then we get to the point that access to knowledge in this country has been difficult, whether we are talking about basic educational institutions or other institutions. Do you remember, there is a place where former Fidesz MP became the school principal, XIII. district, just to be able to identify - no matter the municipality, no matter the faculty, no matter how different parents think. But some people didn't think he was a class teacher, but he became a school principal. And there are places where people have been replaced or appointed for political reasons. I'll give you a fourth, Kazincbarcika. With regard to the Pollack Mihály Primary School in Kazincbarcica, teachers and civil servants clearly placed the vote in favour of one of two candidates at a rate of 70%. The point is that, following the hearing of the public employee educators' opinions, the municipality confirmed that it had voted in favour of one of the candidates. By the way, the Fidesz Member had previously said that he would also support the support of the workers within the framework of the institution. Zoltán Demeter, after making such an agreement with the body of representatives and the mayor, when the public servant circle expressed its opinion, covered himself in silence and failed to comply with what he had said before. What did the EMMI do? He appointed the other one. He appointed the leader of the Fidesz faction in Barcika. [[14.40]]
u2017-09-25-161	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the Secretary of State for an answer. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-25-162	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think it's always brave for the Socialist Party to give an opinion on health issues. After all, the party who wanted to introduce a visitation fee and a daily allowance so that sick people wouldn't go to the hospital doctor, who is in the hospital, should pay daily or leave there as soon as possible... and all this money would have been spent on visits, hospital daily allowances, hospital safes, and then a month's wages were taken away from all medical staff. After that, speaking about health care is quite brave on the part of the socialists. As far as school principals are concerned, indeed, when you have closed schools from settlement to settlement, in the order of hundreds, you have reduced the number of such situations. But so do you, honourable Member, when you list cases here [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] , does not add to the number of hundreds of applications held every year in Hungary without any discussion or problem, and there are, of course, one or two situations each year where there is a debate about the appointment of the school principal. But that's less than 1 percent or 2 percent of all appointments. Let us add that there will be no debate in Hungary in the order of 98-99 or more after the appointment of school directors. That in one or two cases every year, I think it only comes with him because of the magnitude of the numbers. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in any case, in any case in recent years, it has not been established that the procedure that has gone through has not been lawful. That there are arguments and arguments, absolutely natural, I think. But there was no case when it turned out that these leaders had ever been illegally appointed through the Klebelsberg Center or previously via the KLIK. The appropriate consultations have been held, the appropriate preparations have been made, and in each case the decision that was made was legal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-25-163	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2017-09-25-164	Dear Secretary of State, It's not just legal, it's moral. You know, you can make laws that the Fidesz guy can steal and not punish, and you think that's okay? Well, that's the trouble with you. By the way, there are more than 300, 350-360 places in the health sector today, where there are no long-term GPs. But let's look at the school stuff. It is, you know, that a Member gives his word to something in a given region, and then that word does not mean anything after that, nor does he use his influence in line with the promise he has made, virtually proves to me that he is unfit to represent the interests of the people and to represent the children, just as you do to govern, by the way. I say to you only in connection with the closing, in the area of Edelény, when I was the individual representative, only in those four years we renovated and expanded 11 educational institutions and kindergartens; not nationwide, in a constituency. It's the same thing you're doing on Route 27. They promise, they lie, they lie, they promise, and then nothing happens. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-09-25-165	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-25-166	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Yet these arguments make sense, as you have admitted, Mr President, that everything has been done legally in Hungary, and there has been no irregularity of any kind in the case of any appointment as school principal. If you have mentioned general practitioners, honourable Member, let us add that if this government did not come and launched the practice competitions, it would not start the residency applications, then there would be 200 fewer GP practices in Hungary today. But fortunately, they have started, and this year we can spend more than 1 billion forints on it, and this is why in recent years 200 more GP practices have been loaded. And I am happy to tell you that once there was a representative there - although it is not certain that the Hungarian Socialist Party will give up too many individual representatives in the near future, as they have already given up half of their own seats today - and if you think that in Hungary we will renovate more than 500 schools in more than 400 settlements out of more than 80 billion in the next few years, and 200,000 students will have a complete re-enactment of the environment where they can learn, then, I think, Hungary is already a success. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-25-167	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Early, cold autumn. It's an address. Prime Minister István Simicskó appointed Minister for Defence as a response to the urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally. [[Dr. László György Lu.: Yes, I accept.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-09-25-168	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Perhaps we can agree, beyond discussion, that quite early began the rather cold autumn this time of year. One of the signs of this was that when the heavy rains came, the lights on the heated soccer field of the legendary buyer's Gunnery team were gone. By the way, many of the viewers were concerned that Lőrinc Mészáros might have been entrusted with the payment of the electric bill. But there was a similar sign, for example, in Újpest's coat of arms scandal not so long ago that there was no light on the track. Yet, these orbits have all the benefits, especially one of their properties is that they have heating for the cold days. Well, with the sudden cold weather, the heating became even more topical in one place, in Hungarian health care. At St. John's Hospital, the case came about that they tried to start the boiler early in this year's heating season, and they realized that it didn't work, which clearly shows the situation in which an institution that needs money to be renovated could be in, the situation in which hospitals in Budapest and Hungary are in general. This can only happen, and especially at St. John's Hospital, because you sentenced this hospital to death in the Healthy Budapest programme. You have sentenced to death all supply sites that need to be renovated and need money. Basically, this shows it, and it's like a drop in the sea, your health policy, your health activity, not only in an international comparison, but also in a comparison of the surrounding countries. The government is extremely under-planning, and it's always under-deprecated in health care, and we're dealing with every government planning that you're planning very little. Mr. Secretary, you're used to sitting next to the minister leading the EMMI and watching the struggle he's having when it comes to money. So I'm sure you can give me some answers now, in case the Secretary of State of Rétvári is helping you to do this, why you usually plan this budget below, why you don't spend enough money on health care, why you spend it on money and not on intelligent spending. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-25-169	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister István Simicskó. You have the floor, Minister.
u2017-09-25-170	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Honourable Congressman, I'm gonna say it's important to be critical. It's important, because the opponents are always for us, so they're the ones who might see us if we don't work completely well. But I think that we cannot be criticized in this area, because the Hungarian government considers the area of health as a priority. This is why a number of health programmes have been launched, and even screening programmes have been launched this year precisely because we stress not only the importance of prevention, but also the importance of healing. Just today, during the morning, I was at a health-related press conference in NewBuda, where we were able to announce that serious developments are taking place for the pleasure of the people of South Buda. Among other things, we create and build a children's health center, which was an old desire for the people of Buda, because right now, the families of Buda are referring to the fact that if their children were not given God, they would be sick, they would have to come to the Pest side. This is all heritage, since in 2007 the socialists closed the children's hospital on Mount Swab, and then they reduced the number of beds in the Buda Children's Hospital to half. What I can tell you, honourable Member, is that the government wants to continue developing health care. We spend very serious money on this, we spend 40 billion forints on hospitals in Budapest only this year. 17 hospitals in Budapest will be strengthened and developed. Among other things, let me tell you that St. Imre's Hospital is just now, in the days, receiving a billionaire worth of new MRI devices and devices to protect and serve people's health. We spend 500 billion more on health every year than socialist governments have. I think that respect and respect, as far as health workers are concerned, nurses, doctors and, by the way, all Hungarian citizens... - we are fully committed by the Hungarian government to developing and strengthening this. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[14.50]]
u2017-09-25-171	Thank you very much, Minister. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2017-09-25-172	Dear Minister, I have listened with honor and respect to your answer, because you are not a policyr in this area, but you are a minister, sitting at all government meetings, at all government meetings, hearing the difficult situation of health care, seeing and hearing that Fidesz is building a stadium-based country while others want to build health care, health care, and health care, which is patient-centred and well-equipped. Fidesz, apparently, and you can see this as a minister, does not plan for the future of health care, and that is why you are constantly planning to lower your costs. It is evidence that in the past few days, the defense minister - perhaps also the defense minister - has to add 45 billion forints to the previous year's register in order to successfully save patients and operate health care. These are the evidence, Minister. I would ask you, Minister, to put down your vote, and, if you have the opportunity, suggest to the other ministers, especially Minister Zoltán Balog, that you spend more money on health care. Money invested in health care [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] they will bring success, they will bring results, and this is not just the responsibility of the opposition or the government, it is our shared responsibility. Mr. Secretary, I hope that you will stand up (the president, by jogging the bell, will indicate the expiry of the time frame. ) and will admit that they made a mistake and want to spend more money on health care. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-25-173	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-09-25-174	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Believe me that, personally and on behalf of the government as a whole, and I think I can say on behalf of all my fellow Members that we do consider the health of Hungarian people important. We try to set a good example, as we attend a number of events where we not only talk, but exercise and exercise. We have learned Plato's thought, his message, about moving to the benefit of both the body and the soul, and to the detriment of the opposite. What I can tell you is that we have done a lot. In a sense, you put the sport you mentioned under a critical test, which is partly understandable, but I have to say that we have results that show that in 2009 only 5 percent of the Hungarian adult population played sports on a weekly basis, this figure was nearly 20 percent today, around 200,000 children who were certified to play sports in 2010, this number is 500,000 today, so I have to say - I don't even talk about the introduction of daily physical education - that we are doing a lot for prevention and exercise. We've raised your salary, your salary to the nurses, plus 65 percent in four years, the support of doctors, and we're also developing hospitals, and we're also getting modern equipment. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-25-175	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Mátyás Firtl, representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. How does the government help to carry out the task of disaster management? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-09-25-176	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Disaster protection was established in Hungary on 1 January 2000, during the first Fidesz government. Its main task is to prevent disasters by public authorities, to implement rescue in emerging civil emergencies, to organise and manage protection, to eliminate harmful consequences and to restore, to carry out reconstruction. After the change of government in 2010, the government restored the Ministry of Interior and restored all law enforcement agencies, including fire departments. On 1 January 2012, disaster management was fully integrated. As a result, professional fire brigades have been established, which act as local bodies for disaster management. The Fidesz-KDNP government promised to increase Hungary's safety seven years ago when it was founded in 2010. The working conditions of workers in disaster management are not ordinary on weekdays, as the Minister of the Interior says, when there is a flood, when there is a fire, when there is an emergency. To this end, it is essential to appreciate the work of disaster protectors, to develop an attractive career model, rewarding the work done and the constant emergency, and to renew and continuously develop the infrastructure for disaster management. Dear Secretary of State, It is particularly gratifying, therefore, that, last week, another domestic-made fire trucks could be occupied by disaster control. Of the 54 vehicles made this year, 25 will now be delivered, which hopefully will assist in the emergency situation throughout the country for several years. Of course, the development cannot stop, so I ask, Minister, what kind of assistance do these fire-fighting vehicles offer to disaster management, what further development of the fleet is to be expected? Overall, how does the government help to carry out the task of disaster management? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-25-177	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-25-178	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to point out that the fire-fighting vehicles handed over by Sándor Pintér on 21 September 2017 serve the effectiveness of defence, rescue and thus the safety of the Hungarian people, Hungary. Here, first of all, I would like to thank all the firefighters, all those who work for the security of the Hungarian people, Hungary, because they have done a great deal to achieve the government's objective of what we did in 2010, when the government defined the restoration of public order and public security as a national issue, and to this end we considered the recognition of professional staff to be a priority. We've paid off the late hours, remember, we've provided the professional staff with a career model. As of 1 July 2015, the career programme allowed for a 50 percent salary increase; currently we are at 40 percent. From 1 January 2018, there will be another 5 percent, we will be 45 percent, and by 1 January 2019, if the program is implemented, we will reach 50 percent. We have introduced a new system of training and requirements, Mr President, representing his new organisational structure. Technical developments also serve to improve the work of disaster management, and this year we are planning to transfer more vehicles, as the safety of people is the most important. To this end, the Government will provide resources both from its own resources and from EU funds in order to acquire these assets. I would particularly like to mention the voluntary firefighters, and they should not be forgotten, because their work must also be recognised. Thank you for your activities in the interest of the community. The Government of Hungary and disaster protection count on voluntary helpers and we consider it important to cooperate with them. And the development directions are defined in such a way that we can continue to follow this trend since 2010 and increase the safety of Hungary and the Hungarian people in the future. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-25-179	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2017-09-25-180	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer, and I also welcome your response in the fact that, indeed, here in front of Parliament, we can thank, on behalf of all of us, for the work that disaster protection has done over the past period, as there have been a number of disasters in the country. It is also reassuring to me that the Fidesz-KDNP government has taken advantage of the economic opportunities that we have achieved together with the country's population, and that this economic background has indeed created the opportunity for the improvements that the Minister of State spoke about earlier, and which Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér also spoke about. I believe that what has not yet been said is that the Ministry of Interior considered it very important for these developments to be carried out by Hungarian companies with Hungarian equipment, which also serves to ensure that these instruments have a security background, because they have been implemented as a Hungarian background development. For this reason, the Ministry of the Interior is particularly grateful that they have been able to create opportunities for the development of the Hungarian economy. Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-25-181	I thank you, Congressman, for your reply. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2017-09-25-182	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Mr President, I would also like to confirm the facts mentioned by the Member, and I think it is important to highlight it, because since 2014, a domestic development, domestic production, as far as fire-fighting vehicles are concerned, has started. BM Heros Zrt., in cooperation with Rába, made these devices, these fire-fighting syringes and other rescue devices. This is what we would like to continue in the future, as Hungarian people are preparing these for the safety of Hungarian people, using in large part Hungarian parts. I think this is important and I trust that we can achieve even greater results next year. I would like to highlight one more thing. As regards the requirements, I would like to highlight the increase in responsiveness, which I think is very important, because this is even more so for the safety of people. [[15.00]] I think that technical development, increasing responsiveness, the career model all contribute to the fact that the Hungarian people [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] be even safer with regard to the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-25-183	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question: will there be answers? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Deputy Minister for State Affairs, as a response to an urgent public service. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2017-09-25-184	I accept, thank you very much.
u2017-09-25-185	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-09-25-186	Thank you very much. When we gave the title to the question, I did not even think that today there would be some sort of lack of quality for the government side's response guard. We talked about Flórian Farkas today, and I think the low point was when the minister started talking about the toll on Flórian Farkas, so somehow he got from Flórian Farkas to the toll. The case of Flórian Farkas also concerns the most vulnerable, vulnerable people and groups of people, and, unfortunately, it was such a case, and it was even darker when the foundation of one minister's wife received twice as much money for the same task as two other foundations. When we looked at how this was spent, we found amazing amounts: 50 million forints out of 1.2 billion forints were spent, 50 thousand forints per hour for example for study writing or legal advice, 50 million forints were given under the pretext of the premature babies, or 800-900 thousand forints per month were planned to rent mentor houses. The point of my question, and this is a very, very important question, because it concerns a systemic issue, I do not know whether I will be answered, the question is that this foundation should have submitted its application in such a way that these amounts, these amazing amounts, are supported by a preliminary request for a price. According to the notice, what you wrote out could have been applied for, any foundation could have applied, but it wouldn't have been a slap in the wrist, but should have made a preliminary bid. The foundation of Pécs did this, the foundation of Debrecen did it, but the foundation of Szeged didn't do it. They got this money completely out of line. Do you have a plan to initiate an irregularity procedure in this, or how do you think this formally inappropriate tender could be supported? Thank you very much.
u2017-09-25-187	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2017-09-25-188	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Allow me to start by saying that the quality of government responses must adapt to the intellectual abilities of the questioner, otherwise clarity might be a problem, so we always try to answer at the level of the questioner. As we experience higher spiritual standards, the extent of the answers, believe me, will rise. Mr President, on several occasions, Mr President, you have placed in a strange position a foundation which, I think, is carrying out a mission of social importance, in terms of the supply of premature babies. Allow me to confront Mr Hadházy with a previous lie, when the Member spoke on 9 September 2017 at a technical meeting in Szeged about the fact that before accusing a foundation of villainy, he was fully informed and fulfilled all the requirements that could be expected of a Member of Parliament. Mr. Congressman 2017. CHAPTER VI On the 21st of October, he turned to the Foundation with a public request, which the Foundation also took over on the 27th of this month, and then VII. Snow, therefore, was fully informed by the Foundation on 11 July in respect of the programme. This is Congressman IX. On the 7th of the month - without having taken part in a verbal, written or personal consultation that the foundation offered you - he called that request a scoundrel, he called the mission that the foundation was carrying out in the preterm care, and then at the press conference on 9th he saved himself by being here and standing before the questions. Once again, before that, you made these accusations. Congressman, you have all the answers to professional questions. He received a reply that it was not a legal procedure of HUF 50 million, but for HUF 39 million, which means legal aid, legal advice and various copyright issues. If you have actually read the feasibility study, you should know that. He received an answer to his question that he said he lied when he said that he would rent three properties in Gyula, Kecskemét and Szeged for HUF 900,000. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Because much more property rentals in 27 districts are covered by the foundation's application. If you don't apologize to the foundation, you're a scoundrel. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-25-189	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2017-09-25-190	I don't really know what to say to an answer like that. I could repeat it again because you didn't answer my question: how is it that this foundation didn't submit preliminary bids for your application? By the way, it's on paper, it's written on paper, and for 900 thousand forints a month you could rent three mentorhouses, so you're lying. You're lying here in Parliament, it's written on the paper, and you know it. There was no question - they came to Szeged - about how many houses, more should be rented. It's been invented ever since. The paper's there, and it's in the document. Once again, I ask you to answer that, whatever my mental ability is to you: how could it be that the foundation did not submit preliminary bids to support these amazing sums? How could this happen, or how could he still receive the money?
u2017-09-25-191	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Deputy Minister, you have the floor.
u2017-09-25-192	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, There are two types of procedures known by the funding system for our EU proposal. I hope you know this, if not, then take out the professional books that I recommend - perhaps the most effective one written by Professor Horváth. One of the cases where applicants apply for a specific purpose, such as building a property, is a very clear comparison basis for the Ministry of Evaluation of the tender, to which they compare the bid. Where a whole new procedure is involved in experimenting, this type of audit process must be carried out before any payments are made, built into the project. Therefore, as a sponsor, the EMMI should assess these price subsidies when a specific payment request is received from the application to the EMMI. I hope I was sufficiently slow and well-founded that you could follow him. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-25-193	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have post-scheduled speeches. Péter Ágh applied for a post-meeting speech, Mr.Péter Ágh:, Respect for the anniversary voluntary firefighters of Vas! It's an address. I give the floor in a five-minute time frame, and I ask my fellow Members to give each other respect while we do not continue a meeting. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-09-25-194	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, I think it is important to report regularly here, in the House of the country, about the moments, events, anniversaries that give us Vas County a reason to be proud.In 2017, in our area, many firefighters were allowed to celebrate round anniversaries. The Szombathely professional fire brigade celebrated 145th anniversary of its existence, and the BPV Hungária Fire Command celebrated the 25th anniversary of its establishment this year. As far as voluntary fire brigades are concerned, I can tell you about these. The 135 years of Csepregen, Csánigon, Répcelak, Rábátöttös, Ikervár, Őriszentpéter and Nicken, in 1882, 125 years of Vasalján, Saltony, Tower, 1892; the voluntary firefighter's Association was established in St. Petersburg, Kemenestarodfa, 120 years ago. The jubilee was memorable with high - quality celebrations, many of which I could attend personally. On these occasions, it turned out that in many places, volunteer firefighters were the first to organize themselves among local organizations. As a result, by 1890 there were 545 voluntary fire brigades throughout the country. It is no accident, because the Hungarians always wanted to protect their home, their country. Those who are the 19th. In the second half of the 20th century, they launched the forces in their place, with their own tasks, if necessary, with their heroism, all served the Iron people. Among them were quite young, since in several places the association's membership relationship became available from the age of 15. There were older ones who did what they had to do by example. [[15.10]] During the great fires of old, many firefighters risked their own lives while saving the lives and wealth of others because of the initial fire-fighting conditions. They did not require any reward or recognition, yet they faithfully fulfilled their humanitarian obligation. Their service is guided by the spirituality of St. Florian, which means humanity, unselfish desire to help, and heroic, courageous standing. That's how it used to be, but that's how it is today. During this year's Jubilee celebrations, mayors proudly reported on the areas in which voluntary firefighters can be expected, as they stand in many areas of fire and disaster protection, such as fire vaccination, emergency rescue, untraceable road cleanup, closure, provision of broken power lines, internal water protection, clearing of fallen trees. They also focus on prevention and form a community. Dear Parliament, There's respect and honor for the professionals for the volunteer firefighters for the activity they're doing. They provide a very important factor for the community: security. We must therefore pay tribute to them because they take time to protect their narrower and wider environment in addition to their daily work. Thanks should be given to the family members of volunteers, since without their patience, spiritual and moral support, volunteers would not be able to carry out their duties. Dear House, Happy birthday to the Iron Firefighters celebrating the Jubilee of their founding. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-09-25-195	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontra wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-09-25-196	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, On behalf of the government, I thank the Iron County firefighters celebrating the 135th, 125th and 120th anniversary of their founding. They deserve thanks, respect and honor. I think that without their work, the safety of the settlements would not have been complete, and, as you said, volunteer firefighters form a strong community that, in addition to concrete fire-fighting and rescue tasks, is a great force for the settlements in other areas of community life. That's what you've been told about the Jubilee by the mayors of these settlements. I believe that the activity of voluntary firefighters is still timely, and it is still very important today. Just as I thanked all the volunteer firefighters in Hungary in my reply to Mr Firtl's immediate question, I will now do it again. But allow me to thank you for paying such special attention to these volunteer fire brigades. I'm asking you to do it again in the future. And once again, cheers to the Iron County volunteer firefighters. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-09-25-197	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your response and for your reply. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Teleki, MSZP Group has applied for a post- Agenda address: . Where is the promised 1 million jobs? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2017-09-25-198	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, I am not the only one interested in where the one million jobs that Viktor Orbán promised Hungary were, ironically speaking, perhaps he had promised abroad, and he did not add that he would give a million people a chance to work abroad, because in Hungary there is no sense that he would have created so many jobs, especially in the sphere we call the competitive sphere. Of course, when it comes to employment, we are sensitive to socialist benches because we can see that the government is trying to rely on nothing other than public employment, which we do not have any problem with, because we say that it is very important that if someone is given an opportunity to work, but when they are trying to get people into public employment permanently, we cannot agree with them, because it is not possible to keep people who otherwise want to break out in different professional directions. They cannot do this because in smaller settlements it is only the local government that employs me. And they also abandoned the municipalities in this respect, not trying to do anything to put the municipalities in a position to employ them and to provide assistance to small and medium-sized enterprises that could really launch a large number of local professionals so that they would not spend their time commuting to the workplace. Therefore, I think that the government should consider that it will continue to maintain the chaotic state that it can be seen that public employment is the only option for employees, or it is just supporting the municipalities again after seven years. If so, I think I'll be pleased with it because I think it's very important. The other thing today is small and medium-sized enterprises, which are often said to be very important to support small and medium-sized enterprises. I would like to point out that there is a deficit area here that they can hardly embrace, and they do not want to embrace, precisely those who have not yet acquired a profession as adults, and in many cases cannot bring them into a competitive situation with various OKJ trainings, not even in the programme, because they cannot be entrepreneurs, because they have no paper to replace an entrepreneurial card, or even an individual entrepreneurial card. Therefore, they have a responsibility to advertise a programme, to assign to adults vocational training, training that can start towards a form of support that has been very well advertised, and I think it is a very good gesture, but the target community, especially from the lower layer, cannot be satisfied because they cannot obtain a profession. That is why I ask whether the situation of the OKJ training course is to be adapted in such a way that it is available to acquire the profession and then to start family businesses as small and medium-sized enterprises, because you have also forgotten the concept of how a family business could operate. On the other hand, it can be said that, yes, once those who are in public employment are forgotten, secondly, when they are given the opportunity, and the government creates an opportunity to apply for small and medium-sized enterprises, a particular target group cannot achieve it. I would ask when you want to address this issue, so that small and medium-sized enterprises are open to everyone, because in this case it is not open, it is operating in a closed system, and it is very good for a clientship, but for families that really need support to be able to work in an entrepreneurial way, and they are not given this opportunity. But it is equally true that if I go further and talk about my field of expertise, the Roma in Hungary have not been given an opportunity either. , Bridge to the World of Work, by Flórian Farkas - who is not here again, of course, why he would be here - this very charismatic programme, and you have also announced a programme for women and many others, but in the countryside we do not feel that these resources have been opened to the Roma. So I ask you how the employment situation of the Roma population is intended to satisfy, so that the Roma can actually fill jobs and not sustain themselves with aid, because it is not good for you to have someone sustain you with aid. Although we see the same thing in the situation of education, those who are now out of education because of the obligation to teach are lining up for help, which is also outrageous, because they cannot provide them with any other alternative. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-09-25-199	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-09-25-200	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, By 2010, Hungary was the EU's driving force in terms of employment, and we know that in the framework of a ten-year programme, the new government has promised one million new jobs. This situation in terms of unemployment has now changed radically as a result of the Government's successful economic and employment policies. The result of the improved performance of the Hungarian economy is that the number of jobs is constantly increasing, unemployment is falling and wages are rising. At present, 724 thousand more people are working compared to 2010, so the programme has been achieved on a pro rata basis, while almost three quarters of the growth is due to the creation of jobs in the domestic competition sector. The 700,000 employment growth observed over the seven years is unique in the EU, and employment policy measures have never been so successful since the regime change, and not so many have worked. According to the most recent statistics available, the number of people employed increased to 4 million 434,000, while the number of people unemployed could be estimated at less than 200,000, in 193 thousand people. [[15.20]] The improved performance of the Hungarian economy shows that the number of jobs in the primary labour market has increased by more than 100,000 over the last year, and overall, since the 2010 government change, there has been a 533 000 increase in employment in the competition sector. As a result of this positive change, domestic employment levels are already above the EU average and unemployment rates have been the fourth lowest in the EU over a longer period. Since the change in the system, KSH has not measured today's high employment rate: 73.5 per cent of the population aged 20-64 and the unemployment rate is 4.2 per cent. The government's employment-enhancing policy also plays a major role in the development of improved employment indicators: the job protection action now helps more than 900 000 disadvantaged workers to work through the reduction of employment costs, while the number of employees in public employment has decreased by 40,000 compared to a year earlier, so they have been able to move ahead in this system. This indicates an increasing role in job creation in the competitive sector, public employment and work abroad are falling. It is forecast that favourable trends will continue in the Hungarian economy and in the domestic labour market. Overall, the Hungarian economy expanded by 3.6 percent in the first half of 2017. In a European comparison, Hungary's second quarter growth was significantly higher than the EU average of its performance by 1.2 percentage points. The macroeconomic projections of international organisations predict a further increase in employment and a long-term decline in unemployment, but to be a little more specific, for example, within the county's territorial operational programmes - the Member can also look at it in a narrower Patria - there are billions of resources available through the Pact programmes, in which government agencies, municipalities and chambers carry out these employment support programmes together. Obviously, more can and should always be done, but I hope these measures also indicate that we are going in the right direction and that we are trying to do everything we can to achieve these goals. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-09-25-201	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, has also applied for a speech after the agenda:, Only in words will the Government support the Hungarian autonomy struggles in the Carpathian Basin! It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2017-09-25-202	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I'm glad you're here. I hope you don't run away like last time. Even in the midst of the campaign period that has been destroyed by the increasingly unscrupulous lies of the pro-government smear, there are, fortunately, goals for which the entire Parliament can demonstrate unity and strength, so we unanimously adopted a five-party resolution proposal last week - it is a great pleasure for me to be one of the authors - which condemns not only the draft law-breaking Ukrainian educational law, but also invites the government to take action against it. Of course, I must add that we Jobbikians, months ago, demanded of the government to do something about the draft educational law that was yet to be adopted by Parliament or the similarly discriminatory draft language laws still before the Rada in Kiev. Even then, we have already said that their possible acceptance threatens the Hungarian survival in Transcarpathia, which is already dependent on weak links. We continue to see that we shouldn't have, and we didn't have to, to get this far. We encouraged the government to act in a similar way in Romania, because in recent months and even in years, not only the abolition of the Catholic Lyceum in Targu Mures can be found, but from autonomy to violations of our national symbols and inscriptions in Hungarian to the death of Hungarian mayors and until the threat of the President of RMDSZ. For this reason, it is extremely important that the Bem quay has sent a clear message to Romania in recent weeks, and Jobbik has also welcomed it, and its result has been: Prime Minister Viktor Orbán will still support Romania's OECD recording after the Social Democratic party leader, Liviu Dragnea, who has already turned a thousand times and who has failed even his own government, has promised him a solution to the school issue. We hope that it will not happen again that you advance the trust that Romanians, Ukrainians, Serbs and Slovaks have abused us a thousand times, and then, in the words of Péter Szijjártó, they will again stab us in the back. Dear Parliament, In addition to these two specific issues, I think that there are still a number of issues that are fundamentally relevant to the survival of Hungarian communities outside the country, where government determination, advocacy and neglect of the failed and even particularly counterproductive policy of pre-confidence have been needed. This is the case of the autonomy of Hungarian communities in the Carpathian Basin. Jobbik's position on this point is clear from the outset: the aim of the block Hungarians is territorial autonomy and cultural autonomy for sporadic Hungarians. Only the legal, economic, educational or language guarantees of autonomy and autonomy can guarantee the long-term survival and growth of Hungarian communities abroad. These sentences are also heard in order from Zsolt Semjén at the meeting of the Hungarian Permanent Conference, but unfortunately the words have not been followed. Jobbik, who will be government-led in 2018, will therefore stand for the autonomy efforts of Hungarian communities abroad, much more decisively and thus more effectively. We will not allow the Romanian authorities to make the day of Szekler freedom impossible, nor can we allow the anti-Hungarian incitement of the politics and media in Bucharest to go so far as to beat up a Hungarian girl in Bistrica at school by two Romanian boys just because she spoke Hungarian. But we will not let the President of Ukraine break electoral cooperation with local Hungarians. A Jobbik government will set conditions for Ukraine and Serbia's accession to the EU: our southern neighbour must guarantee the Hungarian community the autonomy of the Kosmet Serbs, and Ukraine must enforce the 1991 referendum on the autonomy of Transcarpathia and the establishment of the Hungarian Autonomous Region. We have never believed that the EU will solve the problems of Hungarian communities abroad, because we also see in relation to the situation in the Highlands that not only does not know, but does not want it. We will be friends with Robert Fico when he finally abolishes the shameful Slovak citizenship law, does not make the southern areas of the Hungarians of the Highlands a desert from the point of view of jobs and livelihoods, and will definitely stop closing one third of the Hungarian schools. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, From 2018, the Jobbik government will have an important objective of establishing honest cooperation with neighbouring states based on mutual trust, but this will not be an additional and ex post condition, but a primary condition for ensuring the survival and growth of foreign Hungarians. It is no coincidence that Gábor Vona, the candidate for Prime Minister Jobbik, highlighted the issue of support for autonomy at his press conference on 18 August as one of the most important government commitments made each month. For the remaining less than eight months, this is what we expect from the current government. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-25-203	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-09-25-204	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, I would reject the Member's statements that the Hungarian Government only supports in words the self-determination efforts of Hungarians abroad. We can safely say that in recent years we have made more progress than ever before. We have repeatedly stressed that we will not be the ones to say what autonomy Hungarians in the neighbouring state need, the ideas cannot be uniformed, because they have different features, opportunities and scope. The Hungarian government can represent and support concepts developed in foreign regions in bilateral relations and on the international stage. The development and unification of autonomous concepts by region is ongoing with the assistance of Dr. Katalin Szili Prime Minister, coordinating regular consultations between the Hungarian Democratic Association of Romania, the Hungarian National Council of Transylvania, the Hungarian People's Party of Transylvania, the Székely National Council and the Hungarian Civil Party for the establishment of a unified autonomous concept in Szeklerland. The upland project, based on local and regional self-government, is being finalised and the ideas of the Hungarian Cultural Association of Transcarpathia and the Hungarian Democratic Alliance of Ukraine are being harmonised in Transcarpathia. Once again, I would like to emphasise that we can only stand behind ideas that the representatives of Hungarian communities from abroad can support uniformly. However, as long as there is no common position on autonomy at the level of each region, we cannot act effectively either at the level of international organisations or at bilateral negotiations on this issue. I can assure you that if these drafts are drawn up and formulated by political representation and social and civil organisations of Hungarian communities abroad, the Hungarian Government will support their implementation by all available means. The Hungarian-Hungarian dialogue on autonomy is also to be facilitated by the Hungarian Autonomous Council of the Carpathian Basin, in which, at its meeting in Oradea on Friday, the parties found that the majority of the problems of foreign Hungarians are due to lack of self-determination, so the primary objective is to preserve foreign Hungarians. [[15.30]] It is very important that we create a broad cooperation on this issue and involve the members of the younger generations in the work. To this end, the weekend conference, where nearly 60 young people from across borders took place, was organised jointly with the Council of Autonomous Affairs. A series of dialogues will begin in the Carpathian Basin in the autumn, aimed at channeling the opinion of young people and promoting autonomy among them. However, the path to self-determination can only lead to a further continuation of the guarantee of acquired rights. As long as the forms of autonomy guaranteeing the enforcement of the rights of foreign Hungarians and the basis for the extension of the law are not created, our most important task is to ensure that the rights already acquired are not violated and not to be taken away from foreign Hungarians. As you well know, Mr President, Transcarpathian is in serious danger of providing Hungarian education in Soviet times. That's what this document that the parties signed was all about. The Hungarian Government is working with all means to persuade the Ukrainian authorities to change the decision. We stand there in their fight for their rights in favour of all Hungarian communities, and we call on neighbouring states to remedy the violations in bilateral negotiations. We support and represent the interests of foreign Hungarians in all international forums, most recently in the context of the Ukrainian Education Act, which was also raised at the UN, Council of Europe, OSCE and European Union forums. We support the Minority Rights Protection Institute, run by the Minority Rights Foundation, as well as the activities of several civil society organisations, thus helping victims of violations. I ask you and your party to participate in the enforcement battle of the Hungarian communities of the Carpathian Basin, and do not question the government's commitment to the aspirations of foreign Hungarians. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-25-205	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Gergely Farkas, Jobbik Group also applied for an after-the-date speech: as a 21st-century party, Jobbik faces the new challenges of the 21st-century - Part I. It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2017-09-25-206	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik has been using XX for a long time. and Article 21 (2) (a) Categorization by party of the century, referring to the fact that Fidesz and the MSZP in our country today in both conception and politics XX. 100th-century party, while Jobbik and some of the smaller parties are a completely different way of thinking XXI. Party of the century. Not only is this huge difference in words and communication between the parties, but also in the programmes. Just a few examples of the past. As long as Jobbik provided a free basic internet package and public WiFi for everyone, Fidesz wanted to introduce a net tax recently and only withdrew it as a result of the protest. Where the Prime Minister is not even fully aware of texting, where Uber is banned rather than seeking solutions, it is particularly apparent that the governing party is the XX. in the century, and that there is a great need for Jobbik XXI. on the topic proposals of the century. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] We therefore face the challenges of the 21st century as a party for governance based on these differences. The rapid and continuous changes of the century bring with them. It is time for the country to meet current technological, digital development, to take the pace of development, and to make our political decisions accordingly, in public administration, in education and in all areas of life. But what are these challenges? Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to present to you and the public, in a series of speeches, the part of Jobbik's programme which is part of the 21st programme. They were born on the challenges of the century. In the first part of this, I would like to suggest that smart devices be more involved in education. I think that the use of smart devices in schools is not a devil's thing, because these are now common tools. Therefore, I think rather than forbid it, we should teach students how to apply it correctly at school. Therefore, Jobbik, taking advantage of the opportunities offered by digital tools, would involve smart devices in education. This could not only take more experiential, interesting and creative lessons, but also learn the conscious and proper application of smart devices at a very young age. Just think of the short animations that have seen the light of day in recent years and which are excitingly processing the decisive events of Hungarian history, such as the Battle of Mohács. A lot of other examples could be taken, which would make education more interesting and creative, which captures students, as much more impulses are being given to children in the current digital environment. At the same time, the transfer of knowledge can be much more experiential and effective, as if simply spoken by the educator. Jobbik therefore considers it important to involve education and learning tools in education and to improve students' digital competences, use of digital tools and understanding of the text. However, there is also a need to modernise the digital equipment of schools. Digital devices, smart boards, computers, projectors and the construction of the Wi-Fi network and the fast-speed internet need to be made a huge step forward compared to the current situation. Although some steps have been taken in this direction by the government, yet, taking into account the rapid development of the world, these seem to be small and we see that we are lagging behind enormously, we need much more dynamic, faster and comprehensive programmes to achieve even more effective results. Of course, it should also be noted that in order to involve digital devices in education, it is necessary to prepare teachers for the professional use of these tools in advance, so that they themselves are aware of their use. Dear Parliament, Through the involvement of digital tools, Jobbik also calls for consistency and in 2018 it will bring together the labour market and education. There is a need for timely, urgent renewal in this field in education, because while digital tools are fully used in the world of work, there is still a serious gap in education. Unfortunately, this is also reflected in the recent PISA surveys, which reflect the serious social presence of digital illiteracy. Dear Parliament, If we turn with insight and progressive attitude to the XXI. We can look forward to a new reform and use all these opportunities for the development of the country. In this respect, Jobbik will take the lead, and in view of this, I will continue my series of speeches on Jobbik's next, XXI. by responding to the challenges of the century. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-25-207	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner wishes to respond. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-09-25-208	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, Firstly, we may be able to conclude that it is 2017, and that all parties are XXI. It's a centuries-old party that exists in this century. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] So it really is a good-sounding commercial text that Jobbik is XXI. It's a party of the century, but it's true of the others. But it's no coincidence that Jobbik now realizes that it's important to deal with young people and the digital world, as there's an election campaign coming up. [[Uproar and intervention from Jobbik's ranks, including Márton Gyöngyösi: It was also a long time ago when Fidesz was a young Democrat.]] And we can see that Jobbik would like to sell itself as a modern party, along with old-fashioned views, so the Internet creates various campaign messages. However, the government did not recognise the importance of digital transformation yesterday and not today. We have been looking for and finding answers to new phenomena, opportunities and challenges in the online world for several years. During the InternetCon in 2015, citizens were able to express their views on the issues of the Internet and digital development, thus defining the decisions the government will make regarding the development of the Hungarian Internet and the digital ecosystem. The Digital Prosperity Programme implementing the results of InternetKon provides a framework for a number of digital transformation programmes that have been ongoing for years, as well as a number of new developments, and, due to its comprehensive nature, a coordinated governance programme for the digital ecosystem as a whole. The aim of this programme is to make every Hungarian citizen and every Hungarian enterprise the winner of digitalisation. In addition to the digital transformation of the entire Hungarian education system and other developments that have already begun, the Digital well-being programme aims to make the Internet accessible and affordable for all in the coming years, to make Hungary more prepared for the inevitable digital transformation. With the help of the program, we want to remove any obstacles that stand in the way of someone becoming an Internet user. Therefore, in order to ensure that the lack of material resources does not exclude any Hungarian citizen from participating in the digital world, with another significant tax reduction, we aim to help from 27 per cent to 18 per cent and then from 18 per cent to 5 per cent, with the introduction of a basic package of digital well-being, and by the end of 2018 with free WiFi services in all settlements. By the end of next year, at least 30 megabits/secundum super-fast internet access will be available to all households in Hungary for the first time in the European Union. On 19 June 2017, a 5G coalition was established in Hungary, initiated by the Digital Prosperity Programme, which aims to make Hungary one of the European centres for 5G development and to play a regional leading role in testing applications. [[15.40]] With regard to digital competences: we are developing a long-term, detailed concept of digital competence development and a detailed measurement system for digital competences. In the digital economy, various sectoral digital transformation strategies are being developed, and we also consider it essential to prepare domestic micro-enterprises for digital transformation. Let us not forget the steps taken for the public administration of the digital state. Within the framework of the 2015 national consultation, InternetKon, Hungarian citizens also expressed a clear opinion that the Internet should not threaten the safety of our children. Hungary's digital child protection strategy therefore aims to protect our children from dangerous, harmful content and methods of the Internet, to prepare children, their parents and teachers for conscious, value-creating Internet use. I could go further on these issues, but Mr President has also indicated that he will have further points, and I think that we can continue to discuss them. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-25-209	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, also wishes to speak after the agenda:. Smurf or Artúr Gombóc? With conscious education, we can improve the health of children. It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2017-09-25-210	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is clear from the various international comparisons and domestic surveys that the state of health of Hungarians is inadequate, even in a regional comparison, that it falls short of those of the countries around us. All of this is due to poor nutrition, a lack of health awareness, a sedentary lifestyle, but we could also mention excessive alcohol consumption or smoking. About 54 percent of Hungarian adults are in the obese category, with 71 percent for middle-aged men, so more than two thirds of middle-aged men are obese in Hungary. The data on nutrition shows that children consume half as much dairy products per day as they need and that vegetable consumption is less than a fraction of what would be desirable for them. On the other hand, the consumption of salt and sugar has increased in Hungary since the mid-1990s, and one third of children have twice the daily needs. All this can be learned from various surveys, as well as from the data and statistics of the HCSO. In the case of nutrition, we can see, therefore, that the lack of awareness is unfortunately present in both parents and children, but this is evident not only in eating but also in spending leisure time. From the results of the Hungarian Youth Research, we see that the most common leisure activities among young people are as follows, according to their own declaration: they watch television in 1st place, they Internet in 2nd place, they chat in 3rd place or facebook, they listen to 4th music, they hang out with their 5th friends, they read 6th place, and only 27 percent of respondents mention sports as leisure activities in 7th place, and only 27 percent said that they spend their time doing sports in their spare time. This also leads to a sedentary lifestyle, which is not only in children, but also in young people, but also, unfortunately, in the adult population. The KSH survey shows that Hungarians spend an average of 7 minutes per day on exercise - 7 minutes per day - and only 34 percent of the adult population say that they do sports in any form, on any regular basis. So two thirds of the population do not finish at all, and those who finish spend an average of 7 minutes a day on exercise. Also, we know from the Hungarian Youth Research, that regular movements among young people are not too widespread, and even declines compared to 2004, as 41 percent said in 2004 that they are doing regular movements in some form, only 36 percent of them in 2016 and that this ratio has not changed since 2012, so we have not made any progress in Hungary's youth until 2016 in order to move more and play more sports in their spare time. In spite of all this, Hungary has produced outstanding results every year not only in the Olympics, but also in the various Olympic sports, and this is how it was this year. We have won medals in a number of Olympics in world competitions, only thinking about the pentathlon, athletics, swimming, waterball, kayak-kenura or fencing, and this year Hungary could host the World Swimming Championship, the Chelf World Championship and the Youth Olympics. Allow me to conclude my speech with a somewhat irregular and personal part. I have a very dear friend who's a top athlete, and at one of our meetings, he gave me that jersey where he won the junior world championship. I have experienced this as a great honor, and I thank him very much. We agreed that if you managed to win a medal at one of the world competitions this year, I would speak in this uniform on a sports theme. Now I've done this. Congratulations this time. I'm wearing your jersey. [[He'll open his blazer and show you.]] I congratulate all athletes on their achievements and wish them further success. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-25-211	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] I would ask my fellow Members to concentrate on the Secretary of State.
u2017-09-25-212	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In her speech, the Member mentioned some of the main problems in this area: how nutrition measures are implemented, the lack of mobility, the problems of smoking, and what happened in this area. If we look back only for the past years - a woman who has been a member of this House since 2010, so you know - everyday physical education has been introduced, so basically for children we will try to increase the movement of 7 minutes a day, contrary to the data seen in adults. And as far as fitness is concerned, basically the physical condition assessment, there is a permanent program in this, which records the results. What I would also like to highlight is, among young people, interventions to promote healthy nutrition among children, where a public health product tax has been introduced in order to achieve a healthy diet, a regulation limiting the intake of trans-fat acids and a regulation to improve health. We are always arguing here in the House about how many people get multiple meals every day in educational institutions free of charge, how much the situation has improved since 2010. We can also say that children are not only entitled to this benefit to a greater extent, but also receive healthier food, as nutrition health standards for mass catering were introduced in 2014 in the form of the EMMI Regulation. The public health product tax has been in place since 2011 to tax foods with a proven health risk of high sugar, salt, caffeine and methyl xanthine, and, as I mentioned, the relevant EMMI regulation was published in autumn 2013 to reduce the content of trans fatty acids. Even in school buffets, products can no longer be sold indiscriminately, and since 2012 it has been regulated by an EMMI regulation that, in the case of the operation of the school buffet and vending machine, the opinion of the school health service is necessary in order to assess whether the supply of goods complies with the recommendations on healthy nutrition. As part of the package of measures for healthy Hungary in the health sector strategy of 2014-20, the measures that will help us to take this path are:. We will put the screening programme in place, a national extension of organised targeted public health screenings, a complex programme to prevent circulatory diseases. So, in practice, in this area, the government is trying very actively to change this inherited, negative situation. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.50]]
u2017-09-25-213	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group also applied for a post-the-meet speech:.How long? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2017-09-25-214	Mr President, Dear House, Although, how much longer? In general, the series Fidesz-KDNP deals with the situation of those who have suffered foreign exchange credit, which cannot be sharply separated from the amazing social crisis that Fidesz-KDNP has launched in recent years by artificially keeping Hungarian wages low, supplying the Hungarian economy to the multinational sector, and failing to enter into a strategic contract with our small and medium-sized enterprises. It is quite clear that when Jobbik puts its messages in the direction of employees of multi-company companies and in the direction of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, it seeks to remedy a painful shortage in which the government has basically not put anything on the table. We are in a lucky position now, because there is a multifunctional secretary of state in this room who has answered everything from sport to health and economic issues. I am trying to take advantage of this opportunity to gain meaningful answers by increasing the range of questions, as these suggestions call for answers. For example, how the government makes twice or three times higher amounts of infrastructure subsidies and job creation subsidies for the relevant multi-enterprises than for an average Hungarian small and medium-sized interest, according to a very conservative estimate, and has made available to these companies twice or three times higher than for an average Hungarian small and medium-sized interest, while we can see that there is another two-thirds in Hungary in terms of the number of employees, more than two thirds of the employees are employed by Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. Even though Jobbik does not want to drive the multinational companies out of Hungary, we claim that the higher wages of Hungarian workers could be increased. So there is still a huge gap between the performance of workers in multi-company companies and the compensation they receive for this performance. Perhaps the Secretary of State cannot argue with the fact that these multinational companies are pumping over HUF 4,000 billion annually from Hungary without tax. And perhaps we can also agree that if only 10 percent of this were to be added to the budget in the form of taxes, it would help us in the field of health, education and other spheres. We also need to say that if you were to conclude a strategic contract with Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, then there should be a clear element of this: a comprehensive contribution reduction of up to 30 per cent, which would already have a tangible projection for Hungarian payments. However, if, in addition to cutting red tape in Hungary, the legal system were to be made more flexible, so that companies, small Hungarian companies, medium-sized enterprises, would also be able to improve their productivity, then after a while it would not be necessary to intervene with a command word, but to make the higher incomes profitable. So, contrary to what the Secretary of State and his associates have said today, Jobbik does not want a vegetable to earn the same in Belgium and earn the same in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, but we want this unsustainable gap to be eliminated by improving the productivity of Hungarian companies. We also see that where you build the economy, that is to say, car manufacturers, the assembly plant, this world has started in such a direction that, through robotisation and the introduction of new information technology tools, there are continuous redundancies around the world, and a significant proportion of the labour force employed could be put at risk in a five-year perspective. That is why for you, as my colleague Gergely Farkas said, XXI. 21st century answers should be given. I'm asking questions from the hundredth century. We miss these in a painful way. I didn't even mention how these small Hungarian companies could be put in a position once your corruption methods have been put down. For example, I would very much like the transformation of the public procurement system in order to give preference to Hungarian companies here, where appropriate, only those who have at least two thirds of the workforce to be used, or who have know-how, manufacturing technology, so they do not rent, they do not acquire it from anywhere else, but they have it. There would therefore be countless opportunities to improve the competitiveness and productivity of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. The question is whether there is enough courage in this government to go on this road, or whether it is satisfied with the status that even when a car manufacturer settles here in Hungary, the government does not conclude a fair share of suppliers that would suggest that the investment is being made here in the territory of a sovereign nation state, not in a colony. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-09-25-215	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, who wishes to respond on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-25-216	Thank you for the floor, Mr President; although I do not think a conference would be enough to discuss the issues raised, which my fellow Member has raised. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, You basically made your speech as if the situation of the Hungarian wage level depended on the government's measures, so the government would have the power to raise wages in multinational companies and raise wages in small and medium-sized enterprises. If we look at it since 2010, we can always see that the government is constantly helping to increase wages by the means it can and can possess, by constantly raising the minimum wage, the minimum wage, the minimum wage, and the minimum wage; let us consider the latest agreement that we have with the representative organisations when the Chamber adopted a wage increase programme in return for the reduction of contributions. And when we talk about strategic agreements, let us not ignore the fact that small and medium-sized enterprises are primarily represented by the Chamber and that the Chamber is a strategic partner of the government. All economic measures, including the development of vocational training, have been carried out in close consultation with the Chamber in this country since 2010. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes several times.]] To the kind of approach that things can be done by administrative means, no one has ever given any logical explanation as to how the government can achieve this. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: Competitiveness...]] And it is also a strange contradiction in this story that, at least in my experience, multinational companies can virtually beat domestic small and medium-sized enterprises in wage competition. So the kind of claim that there would be cheap wage labour here compared to virtually precisely small and medium-sized enterprises would be put in an impossible position if there was an administrative possibility of raising wages. The other part, which is also not mentioned by Jobbik when we talk about, say, services or, in particular, in the vegetable sector, what profitability conditions are there. It also comes from selling the product more expensively. Thus, a high level of price increases in services and goods, including inflation, would result in such a process, which could be achieved. A person who thinks a little, for example, can be taken from comments that, let's say, in Finland, car service costs ten times as much as in Hungary. Let us unleash such price increases on the Hungarian population, it would be a very irresponsible process, and I say that the government has no influence on this; what we have and what we are working with, of course, we do. Real earnings in Hungary have increased on average by 12 percent in the last six months - perhaps you do not take them into account in these speeches. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-09-25-217	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Member Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP Group, also spoke after the agenda, with singing, biscuits and bread. It's an address. I'll give you the floor in five-minute time frame.
u2017-09-25-218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I hope I get an answer to my questions. One of Hungary's most serious problems in recent years is the demographic situation. In 2010 the Fidesz-KDNP government started to apply the definition of family-friendly governance in communication, and when the birth data came - in 2011, remember that 88,000 children were born, since the change of regime there were not so few children born in Hungary as in 2011 - they dropped the term family-friendly governance. In recent months, I've been shocked to see what's going on in the government's communications. If we recall, one of the most serious problems is the fertility problem itself, and here he left his mouth to some leading pro-government politicians. I would remind you that Deputy Prime Minister Semyen said such sentences: Horror is the category of non-implanted, fertilized ova, as he said, that Hungarian people are murdered, frozen, thrown out. But you can enhance communication, Minister Balog. 2017. CHAPTER IX On the 17th of the month, after everyday physical education, they discussed the introduction of daily singing, and so said Minister Balog. According to Minister Balog, one of the most beautiful thoughts is that at the moment of conception, the pregnant mother hums, or even the father joins her. [[16.00]] It is incomprehensible to me how a serious minister, a serious politician, can say such things. I might add, at least it was good for you to put a smile on your face, and you wondered when the conception was, what you could do at that moment, if you could really sing, and if your partner would join you. Then Katalin Novák 2017. CHAPTER IX On the 21st of the month - this was this weekend - he said that in order to increase birth numbers, the government will develop family-friendly obstetrics, not new obstetrics, but a minimum standard for each of the obstetric classes, which must be met. Well, let's stop here, Mr. Secretary. What's the minimum standard for obstetrics? I think they have to be now. The minimum rule is to have a doctor, an obstetrician, a gynecologist, a midwife, a nurse, a cleaning lady, a place to go to bed with a mother. In addition, if you remember, Minister of State, they created baby-friendly obstetrics, this process may have started almost 20 years ago, which was very right in Hungary, that eight-bedded rooms were separated, three-bedded rooms were made of them, and two rooms were joined by a shower and a bathroom. But I don't understand what Katalin Novak said. What minimum standards? Now, I would like to bring up the experience I saw last week in a Debrecen obstetrician that freshly born mothers get a toast toast, two cheese, and then after this dinner, they get six homemade biscuits and a bun for breakfast. Is this the minimum expectation, Mr. Secretary? I don't think so. Even if there's 500 forint rations for a mother in a maternity ward, I'll ask her what six cookies cost if we count in head, Mr. Secretary, and that's a bun, because we can count in head. The purchase price of a wet bun is 16 forints in the store, the six biscuits - I know the 25 ounces, 98 forints with a bag - can't cost more than 5 forints, and this is charged with VAT. But if I count it at wholesale, these little moms didn't get a better price for breakfast. But that is not the problem, but what we are talking about, Secretary of State, is that in an obstetrics, a mother should be strengthened, a dairy tree should happen, Mr. Secretary, milk production should start. But I'll ask you how. And once again, a very important question: the mother pays social security, and we get care if we don't go into a pay-per-view system when we pay social security. Secretary of State, this is where we are at the 21st century. In the century, do we want to create family-friendly obstetrics and experience such situations? ! There are basic problems in obstetrics, no nurses, no obstetricians, no gynecologists, no midwives. The mama herself pulls down the sheets if she wants to go to bed in clean sheets. It's not like we're gonna go to bed and do everything. Mr. Secretary, I think you need to stop this. This weekend Zsolt Semjén, Deputy Prime Minister announced that Hungary will be the year of families in 2018. I beg you, don't scare me anymore. They solve the problems that we encounter every day, and do not withdraw from health care now, but really give them what mothers deserve, and they deserve it, because this is the only way that more children can be born in Hungary if we value these Hungarian families. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-09-25-219	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. He said with such incredible momentum that he went 41 seconds beyond his time frame. I trust the next time I give you my signal, you'll acknowledge it. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Yes.]] Secretary of State will answer on behalf of the government.
u2017-09-25-220	Let the other party hear him out. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I am in the fortunate or unfortunate situation that, as the maintenance of a hospital between 2006 and 2010, as the president of a local government, I saw into the pits of health funding at that time, and I saw into the hundreds of billion-dollar withdrawal operation carried out by the previous government. She may have such a six-cracker experience, but to say that there would be a withdrawal from health care and not a continuous increase in funding reflects the lack of face-to-number. If you look at the budget law or the budget of each hospital, you can see that funding is increasing year after year, you can see that the instrumentality has improved to an unprecedented extent, and you can see that the region in Budapest, which is more absent from the unfinished development, is now receiving medicine for the period that they missed earlier. To say that the government doesn't do its job in health care is a strong exaggeration. There may indeed be difficulties or individual cases that you have mentioned, but to generalise it, I think it is not fair to deal with the processes that are taking place. The general problems that are affecting health care - I am studying the lives of some hospitals and how the processes are developing - indeed there is a shortage of professionals, there is indeed a problem in the on-call system, which is partly due to the increased commitment of doctors to the private sector compared to the previous period. So it is not just the difficulties of working abroad that have to be dealt with. However, this does not mean that there are shortcomings and errors or even malicious actions from the maintenance side as before. A single state reservation ensures that the minimum conditions that have been fulfilled so far are met. And if you see it necessary to raise it to make it more friendly, you can certainly explain them. And so much for the flask program that we all know that the government is standing next to the flask program, and the financing of this has been resolved in the long term. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-09-25-221	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 2 October. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. [[The meeting ended at 4:07 p.m.]]
