u2017-10-30-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear House, The 14th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our dear guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear House, For a pre-meeting speech, the head of the MSZP faction, Mr. Bertalan Tóth, asked for justice. It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-10-30-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, "He who lives on other people's money is ultimately a servant," said the current Prime Minister last week. And from here, I'd like to tell him that the prime minister and ministers paid with taxpayers' money were truly elected to serve the entire nation. Nevertheless, we see that you have been building a Hungary since 2010 where elected servants have become lords and voters have become servants and subjects. Today, you work not to make it better for the electorate, but to make a narrow ruling elite, you, your family, your friends, have a better life. In the meantime, you look down on people working with your hands, doctors, nurses, pensioners, civil servants, educators, civil servants. This world must end. That's why we say, "Let's do justice." We believe that all members of society are valuable. We do not want to live in a country where society is divided into ruling classes and working classes. Do you remember the time when a young man became a college student from a lowlife box? True, he had outside help: György Soros - you must know [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right!]] He's an American billionaire. And today, the XXI. In the century, say, Chenyét, the poorest settlement in Hungary, can a young man become a university student? Do you want me to answer that? No. Justice must be done because the country has a huge gap between the rich and the poor, the lords and the ordinary people. Because you really deserve 20 times the average salary, George Matolcsy, the genius of unortodoxia, the world champion of the public-money protest? Is his salary equal to the salary of 20 teachers or 30 nurses? Does the Prime Minister's gas mechanic really have several luxury holiday homes in Croatia, luxury yachts? Does the Prime Minister's daughter and son-in-law really have a hundred million-dollar villa on the Buda hillside? [[Intercom from the opposition: More!]] Do you want me to answer that? No. In the meantime, millions of Hungarians are struggling with behind payments, unable to pay their bills, spending their lives in debt. Millions of Hungarians are unable to pay for an unexpected expense, they cannot buy medicines for their parents, they cannot buy clothes for their children, and if there is damage to their homes or animals, they cannot pay for it because they have no money to make insurance. Meanwhile, the tax benefits the rich, and the average person can't put me aside. A lot of people freeze in their own homes because they can't afford heating or firewood. One in four families is forced into deprivation by the Urizing Fidesz elite. But what we can't accept is that in a work-based society, as you call it, the majority of the needy live in a family where the head of the family has a job, there are families, there are many families where there are two earners, but they can't make a living. The number of working but deprived families is increasing. And then you shouldn't be surprised that hundreds of thousands of people have left and left this country, because the problem is not only that there is little pay, but also that they can't make a living. And in the meantime, you want to get involved in your everyday lives. That is why we say that work requires more wages and decent working conditions. Dear Fidesz Lords! Not raise the salary of state leaders to millions of forints, but increase the salary of hardworking people! We want a country where families can pay their bills, heat their homes, buy their children clothes and medicine if they are sick. We want a country where families should not save money to buy a plane ticket if they want to visit their children or grandchildren. We want a country where leaders do not rule, but serve. Ladies and gentlemen, This requires a change of government, and that the new rich who rule over us will be expelled once and for all - for our common future, for a just Hungary. Thank you for listening.
u2017-10-30-2	I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör. Here you go.
u2017-10-30-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, I think it is an important point of policy not only in Hungary, but also elsewhere, what individual political forces think about justice - in this sense I am glad that you raised this issue. We believe that Hungary is only fair if it gives everyone a chance to live a good and better life. This country can be fair if everyone who wants to live from work has a job and is worth working for. Therefore, I would like to draw your attention to some of the things you left out of your speech, such as the fact that, compared to 2010, when you put down the bar, net earnings in Hungary increased by 62 percent. Wages have been rising over inflation for 55 months. Average earnings in Hungary have increased by 13 percent in the last year. If you look at the minimum wage, it's 88 percent higher than the period when you put down the bar, and the minimum wage for skilled workers is double. I'm sorry you left that out of your speech. That's what we think. But we also know how the MSZP enforces the principle of justice: taking a month's wage, taking a month's pension, raising energy prices, with extremely high tax rates. At your time - and that's the point - it was more worth living on welfare than working on it. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: It's not true!]] In 2010, there were 500 thousand people who applied for some kind of aid in Hungary. Dear Chief of Staff, Where was the fair part when many of the workers paid up to 36 percent of their own? Where was the righteous when the tax was even taxed with the monstrous semi-superbrutto? Where was the fair thing when they would have paid for health care after that? Where was that fair? It is a symbol of this era, Mr. Group leader, Ferenc Gyurcsány, and there was a lot of things then, but quite few have accused him of being a champion of justice, and quite few are now accusing him of being a champion of justice. And I'm bringing up his identity here because it's very clear from the events of the last few days that Ferenc Gyurcsány has returned and he's wrinkling the entire left. So the Socialist Party now stands as having no presidential candidate, no headquarters, no idea, but there is a Ferenc Gyurcsány in his old glory. How the MSZP handles its internal affairs is a matter for the MSZP, internal affairs. [[Dr. László Varga: Has anyone written this down for you? Lajos Korózs: How do you handle it?]] But it's not how you handle MSZP Csaba. And this is where we turn back to the issue of justice that you mentioned, because every day new details of the socialist politician's criminal organization are being revealed. According to the latest news, he not only damaged a lot of students, but also damaged pensioners. So the Socialists destroy two of the most vulnerable groups: students and pensioners. Meanwhile, Csaba Czeglédy's safe in Austria finds gold nuggets. Now, this is the main example of socialist justice! Tax raise at home, gold nugget for you in the foreign safe. It is difficult to find words and ratings worthy of this Parliament, especially if we cannot rule out that the funds that have been made disappear have also been used to finance the campaigns of the left. That's really the main question. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] Whether or not the missing three billion have flown into the MSZP parties. Dear Chief of Staff, Therefore, if justice is important, we continue to ask you to clarify this extremely serious scandal, Csaba Czeglédy's scandal. [[13.20]] And we also ask that, in addition to fighting for positions, they find time to compensate those who have been deceived by their fellow politicians. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: You are a disgrace!]] If justice is really important to you, you can't leave old people and students on the side of the road. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Haven't you read the Origo? When are you going to ask Florian Wolf? Dr. László Varga: What about Simonka and Flórian Farkas?]] Show me that, please, for example. First of all, cash in Csaba Czeglédy's gold nugget, and please begin the compensation with this. We wish you every success and perseverance. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-30-4	I am pleased that Congresswoman Bangón has also entered the room. If I hadn't seen it, I would have heard it, so... [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] But I don't want to hear your commentary, and I think it's nobody in the room. [[Dr. László Varga: It doesn't matter! Expansion and interruptions in the benches of the MSZP. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] I'll give you the floor. We now come to you by Mrs Bernadett Szél, Head of Group, on behalf of the LMP:, The Government has abandoned Hungarian health care. Here you go.
u2017-10-30-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Those who had things to do forgot that growth requires three things: health, knowledge and good governance. Good governance means primarily responsible leaders. Leaders who take people seriously and undertake to organise the healthiest and most qualified community of the given opportunities. What, though, do we get instead of a responsible government? A sort of escape government. No government can escape responsibility and come up with the ridiculous argument that the state is a bad owner. In fact, the government is always the bad owner. Dear fellow Members, You should applaud now, but some of you nodded because you realized that you heard not the words of Bernadett Szél, but that you heard the words of Viktor Orbán from 2008, and, you know, there are things in life that change, and there are things that don't change. Three things have not changed in any way: without health care, there is no growth in any country. It is also always true that the government, always the government, is responsible for health care. And it's also very true that a government that doesn't take responsibility for its affairs is a government on the run. What's changed is Fidesz. What you knew in opposition was completely forgotten when you came to government. You know, I'm gonna talk about facts here. The fact is, there's an 18-hour waiting in an emergency room right now. The fact is, Fidesz has made health care pay. There is no other country in the region where people would pay as much of their private wealth to health as in Hungary; they already have private wealth. Fidesz MEPs talk about hospitals that have become death factories, and the fact that anyone who can't buy the masked health care dies. The fact is that 54,000 of our fellow citizens are currently involved in home care, they receive a nursing fee. This is about 30-40,000 forints. What is 30-40 thousand forints enough for, my fellow Members? How can you let these people who work day and night for their sick relatives get 30-40 thousand forints now for seven years? ! It is also a fact that half a million Hungarians do not have a home doctor, and it is also a fact that where there is no practice filled, death is twice as great as in other places. It's also a fact that while we're struggling to become general practitioners in this country, you're trying to innovate with the e-recipients, but you're also able to introduce this by getting the letters that you don't have expired I.D. , it has to pay 8,000 HUF to have a new I.D., because it also has to be e-personal. Why can't they do something right now? It is also a fact that hospital waiting lists are getting longer, let me quote some data: you may not know, but I would like to say that a hip replacement surgery will have to wait nearly 300 days, a spinal stabilization surgery a year; and a cataract surgery will have to wait five months. But I will tell you more facts: there are not as many cancers in Europe as there are in Hungary. And you, my dear Fidesz, take your hands up and tell them to use private health. Last time Viktor Orbán, the current Prime Minister, said that - pay attention, not the Hungarian Government, he said - the Hungarian State cannot provide health care for 10 million Hungarians, so he is pleased that private health is taking on more and more tasks from public health. Fatal mistake! On the one hand, in 2008 Viktor Orbán would have allocated himself: the government is not responsible. I would like the current Prime Minister to feel his responsibility in this regard as well. But I also have to ask whether it is fair that Hungarian people are paid twice. This nation is one of Europe's most tax-paying countries. Today, an average wage worker pays a health contribution of HUF quarter million a year. Is it fair that these people are paid twice? Once you pay your contributions, then you have to go to private health if you want to stay alive. How does this work, fellow Members? ! Today, the Parliamentary Group of the LMP will hold the Hungarian Government accountable for health problems. This day will be about that for us. However, it is certain that the Wind Government will have the first measure to change health care and funding. [[An uproar in the benches of the governing parties.]] On the one hand, healthcare requires two things: money and courage. There is no fault in our courage, and as we have prepared our alternative budget every year, you know very well that we can finance health care. However, you, my fellow Members, have always voted against these amendments. There's still the head of government to promote private health, by the way, public money. On the other hand, we know that time costs lives. Therefore, we know precisely that hospitals should be freed from burdens, practice communities should be established, and minimum wage should be introduced in home care.
u2017-10-30-6	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-10-30-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and Gentlemen, Or Madame President of the Wind! I don't know exactly how to call him. [[Interview from the benches of MSZP: Wind!]] You have left very much out of your speech, honourable Member. I don't know where to begin to correct what you're talking about. First of all, the Hungarian government strives to appreciate the work of doctors and nurses; the work of general practitioners, nurses and everyone else who works in health care. That is why we have launched a wage increase programme that arrives in its next phase on 1 November, the day after tomorrow; from the day after tomorrow, Hungarian doctors in Hungarian hospitals will earn 100,000 HUF more, and nurses who also work there will receive a further 12 percent increase in income after 26,5 percent last year. This covers both the basic wage and the various mobile wage elements. This will continue in the years to come with respect to nurses and workers. Next year, they'll have eight percent of their salary, and then they'll have another eight percent. The workers and nurses receive a total wage increase of 65.5 percent over four years, and the doctors receive HUF 207 thousand. I do not believe that the congresswoman or anyone else can mention a period in the history of the last 27 years when doctors and nurses could have received such a increase in wages in two or four years. We remember when he took a month's wages from all Hungarian doctors and all Hungarian nurses to the then Gyurcsány-Bajnai cabin, but we cannot talk about such increases. Congresswoman said how much to wait for some interventions, but she forgot to say how much less to wait than in 2012. Knee replacement surgery is expected 438 days less today than in 2012. Hip replacement surgery today is expected to be 298 days less than in 2012. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett says no to his head.]] Don't shake your head, Your Honour. This is from the same document you quoted. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I can do whatever I want with my head!]] I've got the same thing, but you've been reading the first page, and I'm reading the last one. It also states that cataract surgery should be waited 259 days less today than it was necessary in 2012 and spinal surgery should be expected by 236 days less than in 2012. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: So you only have to wait five months.]] It's from the same database, honourable Member. If the Wind Government had been in government, these positive results would certainly not have been achieved in Hungarian health care. These did not happen on their own, Madam Member, but within the framework of a programme, a waiting list reduction programme, in which the government included tens of billions of forints and a transparent system, as it was equally important, everyone can follow their position on the waiting list on the Internet anonymously. That is why there are these huge reductions. [[13.30]] It is also distorted, honourable Member, that anyone should be able to replace their e-persons in the e-recept system for 8,000 forints, since they can also be replaced free of charge with the old I.D. and the Taj card. Don't spread such false news, honourable Member, because it scares sick people that they cannot replace their medicine while they can replace their medicine, but only take the property card next to the ID card. With these little slips, I'm not sure you'll be more credible to the electorate. As regards paid health, honourable Member, it was the Fidesz-KDNP that prevented the introduction of paid health in Hungary from taking part in the opposition in March 2008. And almost all of you, I think the LMP, a few weeks ago, signed a joint major opposition plan from MSZP to Ferenc Gyurcsány to Jobbik for Hungarian health [[Noise on the opposition side.]] , which includes different directions for the development of paid health care. This is what you want to do in Hungary, therefore, to increase paid health care. As far as the care fee is concerned, Congresswoman: you forgot to say that Fidesz-KDNP has increased the care fee, and even introduced a priority care fee category, so that the most serious patients are not - as they did a few years ago - from 28 to 30 thousand forints, but, although there are still a small amount of at least 50,000 forints to care for if you have a relative, your mother, your child, who you want to care for. Would you like more? Of course we would. However, at the twenty or a few thousand forints, the amount above 50,000 forints is a larger benefit that can be paid to those who care for their relatives at home. Praxis competitions, honourable Member: Fidesz-KDNP has been able to develop a practice application system that we had to raise by HUF 1 billion this year, because the GPs have over-subscribed to fill a job in areas where, if necessary, there have been no GPs for years. If a practice is empty for five years, a general practitioner will receive a non-refundable grant of HUF 20 million. This was possible because we did not withdraw from the health system, but provided additional resources, a total of HUF 891 billion in the Health Insurance Fund. You have never voted for them in the Budget Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-8	Now the representative of Jobbik, Dániel Z. Carpathian, who will continue for how long? A title for your comments before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-10-30-9	Mr President, Dear House, In recent weeks Jobbik has again convened the Foreign Currency Loan Round Table in order to bring civil society leaders, the stakeholders, the leaders of Hungarian political parties, representatives of the government and the Banking Association, to the same table in an unsolved social and social disaster situation. Maybe I won't surprise you by telling you that once again the representatives of the governing parties didn't pay their respects at this event, so again, they didn't have the courage to face the injured, while they were preaching from giant posters to television studios everywhere that they had the banks accounted for and solved this problem. I also have to say that this problem is basically a matter of the fact that, despite a loan of 10 million, someone has repaid up to 15 million forints, because of the exchange rate change and other factors, it could have remained a debt higher than the amount received. In this situation, Fidesz-KDNP representatives said that it was okay and they solved it. When we look around the surrounding countries, we typically see that these countries have moved towards the exchange rate at the time of admission. Today, news has been released that in Croatia, decisions have been taken for the benefit of the Frankannaires because they believe that the Frankannaires did not receive all the important information before the contract was concluded. So they dared to say what the Government of Hungary only touched on furs before making a deal with the banking system. And we also have to say, typically in this case, what a government response is about, so that I can help things in advance, what is not worth talking about longer. They talk about the exchange rate barrier, which may have temporarily brought air to some of the authentics, so let's not discuss everything, but this air burden is now at stake in the neck of the injured, because the government has done nothing in the last five years. The National Asset Manager is used as a solution where the property is taken from a person and transferred to the state. Then, if a government of the next colour comes along, and let's say it wouldn't be the Jobbik government - even though we shouldn't assume that - this right to rent could be compromised. But, as a solution, to claim that someone's ownership of the property is being taken away, it's quite ridiculous. And when some of their state ministers call it the country's largest rental program, where they take people's real estate in bulk, it's outrageous. We could talk more, and you would talk about the possibility of paying off, but I would like to ask the Secretary of State to answer me for a single sentence: what ethical, legal, economic or other standard might justify the possibility that some citizens could repay at a rate of HUF 180, and others would have to face HUF 256 forints, which this government made up, after having made a deal with the Banking Association, and also with the EBRD that it would not add additional burden to the commercial banks concerned and would not serve the benefit of the victims? In the meantime, we see that the government has failed to review the law on notaries, the notaries' law, the fact that, where appropriate, the legality of the papers, documents, the market processes behind them have been examined - in my view, it is clear that they did not - they have not examined how the relevant commercial banks obtained insurance money after the agreements entered into, and they have not examined the fact that there may have been situations in relation to the divorce pledge that are now filling the news that they are demanding 33 million forints on Hungarian families and Hungarian people after a 5 million loan. You cannot justify the fact that normal market processes have led us here. No market process can lead to a debt of 5 million to 33 million, let alone two types of executives demanding the same debt. But these days, we have also succeeded in increasing this kinship that you created, when, at a retail forum, a prominent Fidesz said: "Don't put this responsibility on us, which we had nothing to do with, and we weren't in the government." It's an amazing word, and I don't blame that prominent, because he says what his party says. It is quite clear that, as early as 2001, when you made unilateral treaty modifications possible, that certain spirit was released from the bottle, but after almost eight years of government, you still refer to when the stock of foreign exchange loans was raised, well, there was indeed a Balliberal freebladder period when this could happen, but you sabotaged it, forinted it at the market rate, looted the debtors. But now, at the last minute, before the victims do justice in the elections, they still have the opportunity to settle this situation fairly. So the question is, how much longer are they gonna take this amazing gamble? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-30-10	The floor for reply is Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2017-10-30-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, He did go back to the beginning when he mentioned 2001, but if he took into account the facts, he would know that in 2001 there was a special family support system, housing purchase system in Hungary, and that the apartment buyers could use a state-supported HUF 30 million loan. Then came the Balliberal Government, whose prominents took advantage of this opportunity quickly, and then closed this gate in front of the broad masses, and the banks began to offer foreign exchange loans, as they could say, out of power, because, for example, when buying a car, the ID was enough to buy. That's a little less people's sense of responsibility. And the situation arose when hundreds of thousands of families came to the point where, by 2010, they could not repay the details of the crisis caused by the release of exchange rates, and between 2008 and 2010, the previous government did not take any meaningful steps to help these debtors. Congressman, you've given up your lesson. The introduction of the exchange rate barrier has indeed helped the debtors a lot, and opening up the possibility of end-payment, which could also be replaced by other bank loans, has also provided a great opportunity. At that time, some 130,000 families escaped the overwhelming weight of the foreign currency loan. Moreover, on the basis of the decision of the Court of Justice of Luxembourg, the Constitutional Court has decided to establish a legal framework under which a claim for damages which we would have failed in international fora was not imposed on the State, but that, within the existing framework of law, we have been able to establish rules which, in compliance with EU law, domestic law and the Fundamental Law, have now made this issue virtually manageable compared to its previous weight. [[13.40]] Indeed, for the poorest, those whose debts exceeded the value of the property, they only have opportunities, such as the National Asset Manager, which helped 36,000 debtors and families, so that when they were evicted from a property where they could not pay the purchase price, the state bought it and could live there for a reduced rent. And for those who are able to repay their debts with practically adequate earnings, we have helped them with various other legislation, including the fair bank law, where the interest margins, which were unilaterally raised by banks, were burdened on banks, they had to pay them back; the unfair profit resulting from the exchange rate conversion had to be returned to the debtors. By the way, your faction didn't vote for all the debt relief laws. I have the lists, the collections, they are in my dossier; if necessary, I would be delighted to make them available to the Member here at the end of the speech, or to study the documents of that time. You did not support the rescue of debtors, you did not support the adoption of these measures. For the record, the forinting was a breakthrough, which may have solved this issue in the legal framework. I note that the exchange rate at that time was also lower than the current exchange rate, so the debtors are still in a better position than if this had not happened. In addition, the central bank has, of course, made tremendous efforts. We know that interest rates are well below the 2010 level and are less burdensome for debtors. Overall, the burden on debtors decreased by some HUF 1000 billion, and the repayments decreased by 25-30 percent. Practically for those who are still in a difficult situation, there is also a proposal before this House, where MEPs Péter Harrach, István Hollik and László Szászfalvi recommend that the moratorium on eviction should extend from 15 November to 30 April instead of the previous period 1 December to 1 March. This ensures both the functioning of economic life and the help of those in the most difficult situations. I hope that both the Member and his faction will vote for this. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-30-12	Now it is up to Member of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Mr István Hollik, to say that the Soros Plan threatens the security of Hungary. Congressman's got the floor.
u2017-10-30-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, There have been three events in the last week that I think we cannot leave without saying a word. The first was that details of the so-called DCLeaks files were published in the Hungarian and international press, which posted the internal correspondence and memos of George Soros and his network on the Internet. From these files and documents, we learned basically three things. The first is that George Soros and his network have a significant influence on the leaders of the European Union in Brussels. We have also learned that MEPs are listed and that they are the supporters of open society and allies of the Soros network. There are 226 of the 751 MEPs, including Hungarian opposition representatives. It is noted that before the 2014 European Parliament elections, this network has donated $6 million to 90 NGOs in order to influence European decision-making as they please. After that, of course, it is no coincidence that György Soros was able to negotiate with the most important leaders of the EU in person behind closed doors, and obviously we should not be surprised that last week the LIBE Committee of the European Parliament adopted a proposal for immigration and quota, as most of the Members sitting there are on the list of allies of George Soros. We also learned from these files that this network has actively attacked and attacked the Hungarian government, Fidesz-KDNP and Hungarian immigration policy. It supports and encourages reports condemning Hungary, takes action to support the Soros University and Hungarian Soros organisations. In fact, some documents show that they seek to discredit and remove Hungarian pro-government politicians. The third thing we can learn from these files is that in order to achieve the utopian goal of George Soros and his network, a Europe without nation states and borders, as well as the creation of multicultural societies, they are also capable of falsifying reality. For example, one report proposes to the other members of the network how to photograph migrants in order for European citizens to feel sorry for them. But sometimes they call for specific data counterfeiting. In one document, they write about it, and I would quote literally: 10 000 migrant children have been lost until January 2016, but we will say 270 thousand. This shows that nothing is sacred to them, even the reality, in order to achieve their goal. But there were two other shocking cases last week. One is that at the southern border of Hungary, Pakistan's most wanted mass murderer was apprehended, who was accused of 70 murders by the authorities. Nevertheless, he was able to obtain refugee status in Greece and reached the border of Hungary. This is where we thank the authorities for getting him. The other case also happened last week, when 8 migrants attacked a car driven by young people in an M60 highway near Mohács, trying to rip open its door. Fortunately, young people did not get out of the car, so they quickly closed it and managed to escape. It's terrible to think about what could have happened to them. If we add that more than 350 people have died in Europe since 2015 because of acts of terrorism, and that the number of sexual crimes in Austria has only increased by 55.5 percent in one year, then it is clear that criminals and murderers are still arriving among migrants, and this poses a threat to Hungary's security, violence, crime and terror in Europe. But it seems that these facts do not interfere with the clarity of the Soros plan's executives, and they continue to force the movement of immigrants into Europe. However, they should know that our vision is in stark contrast to theirs. We want to live in a Europe of proud, growing nation states, where everyone can decide who they want to live with and who they don't. We share the thought of Áron Tamási: We are in the world to be somewhere at home. For us, Hungary is our home, which we will protect as long as Fidesz-KDNP governs it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-30-14	Secretary of State Károly Kontrat has the floor.
u2017-10-30-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Today, there are two types of countries in Europe: where life is safe and where it is not. We do not allow George Soros or anyone else to endanger the safety of Hungarian people from outside. The last few days are another serious warning for everyone: murderers and criminals can also arrive with migrants. But let us think back to what has happened in Europe over the past few years. For mass molestation in Cologne on New Year's Eve 2015, including 25 Algerians, 21 Moroccans, but also Tunisian, Iraqi, Iranian and Libyan citizens of more than 50 suspects. The incident was repeated at the 2016 Cologne festival in Farsang, which the German police couldn't prevent by sending twice as many policemen on the street as they did on New Year's Eve. But it was similar to the Cologne case when in December 2015 a 10-year-old boy was raped by a 20-year-old Iraqi man in a Vienna swimming pool. According to the latest statistics of the German Federal Police, almost half of the pickpocketing and other minor property offences registered at railway stations in 2015 were committed by individuals immigrating from North Africa, and in 2015 1399 persons of Maghreb origin were dealt with, 46 percent of all such crimes. We all see that migration brings danger, violence and crime to Europe, and this threat is growing, because in Brussels they are once again preparing to allow more migrants and to be deployed in all Member States. [[13.50]] Security is the most important Community value that the government will protect. The Hungarian Government has already demonstrated with a number of measures that it is ready to stand up for the safety of both Hungarian people and European citizens. In order to stop the migratory pressure, we have created triple protection: physical protection, fence, lively protection and legal protection, and this uniform application has brought results at the southern border. On 16 October 2017, we delegated 30 police officers to Serbia and Macedonia for a month to strengthen the protection of the Macedonian-Greece and the Serbian-Bulgarian border. As their main task, they provide patrols to prevent and detect illegal border crossings and contribute to the production of smugglers and illegal migrants entering the territory of Macedonia and Serbia. The work of Hungarian police officers deserves respect, as Hungary and the border of the European Union have been protected from illegal migration in recent years, while Hungary's internal security has also improved significantly. The number of high-level crimes was around 54 thousand less than in 2010. This represents a 51-percent reduction, with an increase of 13 per cent for the same crimes. We need to protect Hungary, so we are asking everyone to take part in the national consultation. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-16	The last among the comments before the agenda is Mr Gergely Gulyás, the leader of the Fidesz Group, with the title of the European Parliament. Here you go.
u2017-10-30-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Although Hungarian internal policy gives us many other topics, we have heard a lot about education and health, and my fellow Members have done so before the agenda, but no one has dealt with the issue of crucial importance for the future of the country, which unfortunately was dealt with by the Committee on Citizens, Legal, Justice and Home Affairs of the European Parliament, and has also taken a decision on this issue. This is the new EU procedure for the relocation of immigrants between Member States. If you think about the debates that have taken place on this topic in recent years, you can remember that in 2015 the numerous prominent representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party expressed the view that there is no immigration, an irrelevant question, that the government invented it. A year passed, this position proved to be untenable, so in a referendum campaign on the quota on the compulsory quota, the Hungarian left took the position in its entirety that there was no compulsory quota, and that there was no quota without a cap to talk about the whole falsification of reality. Compared to this, we are now at the point that the European Parliament's committee has adopted a proposal with a majority of more than two thirds, which establishes a permanent compulsory resettlement system with no upper limit. It does not concern the distribution of a certain number of immigrants, but provides for the allocation of all illegal migrants arriving in the European Union without time or limitation. This would also mean, in effect, that there would be a penalty if someone did not wish to participate. The competent Commission has decided that Member States that do not fulfil the obligation to transfer should have a place for reducing the Structural Funds. To be even clearer about the intention and the supporters behind the proposal, this proposal would also be an opportunity for illegal immigrants to choose which country they will be transferred to. In addition, it can be presented in groups of 30 with a group request. Another element of this proposal, which has been unknown so far, is far beyond our already significant imagination, which is the institution of so-called sponsorship. This means that if a civil society organisation, in Brussels dogma, takes on the assistance of a particular asylum seeker, the transfer of a person in this Member State will benefit. In addition, the proposal includes easier family reunification. If someone claims to be likely to have a family member in a given country, then it is easier to get there during the redistribution mechanism. If we look at all of this together, we can say that the quota without cap is now supported by two thirds of the European Union Parliament, and we can also say that even civil society organisations would have a role to play in comparison to this which has never been mentioned before. And the fact is that we talked a lot about it - the Hungarian Socialist Party said in the last weeks of the quota campaign - that if it were like this, they would oppose it, the whole left was in this position, and then Péter Niedermüller explains how good the distribution mechanism without the cap is. Today, Ferenc Gyurcsány, who has once again become the leader of the left, clearly argues that this is the right thing for the future. Today we see that the European Parliament faction of the Hungarian Socialist Party tolerates in its own ranks, in its two-man line, a representative who quotes the festive nature of the 1956 Revolution, who denies the revolution, and does not expect them to take action against compulsory immigration on behalf of our own national interests. We call on all Members of the European Parliament, regardless of whether they are left- or right-wing representatives, to oppose a decision contrary to the interests of Hungarian society, contrary to the clear political will of Hungarian citizens in the referendum, and to do everything possible to avoid Hungary's terrible plan of compulsory immigration. Finally, we would be very pleased if NGOs, whose support is obvious, could not play any role in this process, because in recent years we have been convinced that they are merely promoters of immigration policy. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-18	To reply, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, again. Here you go.
u2017-10-30-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, For about two years now, the issue of a permanent, unqualified resettlement quota has been on the agenda. We knew it was in the pipe the whole time, that it was on the agenda, but it hadn't been legally carved into stone, that they couldn't force us to execute it. Now, that is a huge change in the European Parliament's decision a few days ago. Just to remind you, a few days ago, the Committee of the European Parliament, called LIBE, decided that a mandatory distribution procedure should be introduced. That's the negotiating basis. This is no longer an empty resolution, not a political opinion lost in the air, but a legislative phase itself. And there are rating conditions, serious details: those who would arrive in Europe would immediately relocate them to one of the countries. First and foremost, those who have not yet accepted me. So here: here, to Hungary. We'd be the destination country. On top of that, family reunification would be facilitated and financial sanctions would be imposed on those countries who are trying to oppose it. And to make it even worse, NGOs with a vague background would also be involved in the resettlement procedures - so we understand why they didn't want to register themselves under the Transparency Act. So the machine went up, we stepped up, the implementation of the resettlement plan started. There's a bullet in the pipe. That's where we are now. What's happening is public violence in the rule of law. Because no one has authorized EU leaders to take such strategic powers out of the hands of the Member States. You don't have the right to do that. And this isn't about the curve of the cucumber or the trade details, it's about who we're living with in the future. And we don't want to interfere with other countries' choices. They can also choose to remain or become immigrant countries. That's your choice, too. But they can't force us to do this at all, because if they do, it's the crushing of every democratic principle in Europe that exists. It is precisely for those who, by the way, refer to democratic rights in Brussels from morning to evening. And the opposition's responsibility in this situation is enormous. Research, surveys, a multitude of consultations and even a referendum have made it clear that Hungarians do not ask for these covert plans. And yet, not only do you deny these plans here, but you even support them from the background when you have the opportunity. Out with statements such as Gábor Vona at the RTL Klub, out with votes such as LMP and other left-wing parties. You deny here, and your representative, the opposition representative, Peter Niedermüller, is voting in favour of resettlement, and he even states that this will be good. He called it in. [[14.00]] I would also like to draw the attention of this House to the fact that Cecilia Wikström, in charge of the parliamentary report, has clearly stated what can be expected. He said that the Member States should not make unanimous decisions on resettlement, but that a simple majority decision would be enough. This way we can avoid blocking Member States, so we can avoid us. Now, hold it right there. - that's what we can say. Dear House, We don't really have illusions. The election is coming, and the opposition is not willing to support virtually anything the government represents. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] As I look at it, not even what the vast majority of citizens would expect of him, and what, by the way, honourable Member, the security of Hungary would require. We're sorry, but we'll take it because it's not the first time. Nevertheless, political support is still very much needed, so if the opposition cannot be relied upon, we will turn to the citizens. That is why we are asking everyone to participate in the consultation and to help the government fight with their support. Because if the Hungarians come to a common denominator, it will also have great weight in the fight against quota, and the opposition - from the LMP to the Jobbik, to the MSZP - can ask itself why they did not side with the Hungarians. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-20	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2017-10-30-21	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; István Szávay, Jobbik; István Ikotity, LMP; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik. On Tuesday, the following representatives applied for the speech before the agenda: Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; László Szászfalvi, KDNP; István Ikotity, LMP; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Zoltán Bóna, Fidesz. On Tuesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Nándor Gúr, MSZP; István Szávay, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik. On Thursday, he applied for a speech after the agenda: Nándor Gúr; MSZP. No one came forward to speak after the agenda on Friday.
u2017-10-30-22	Dear House, I would like to inform you that there has been a motion to suspend the immunity of Mr Ákos Hadházy LMP MP 14.B.222/2017/5. I'm on a private charge from the Békéscsaba District Court. I've issued this to the immunity committee to examine it. Dear fellow Members, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear House, Parliamentary resolution on certain house rules 37. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may decide to negotiate certain items of the agenda in a time-frame. On this basis, the motion put forward by the President initiates a V/17955 on the necessary steps for foreign exchange credit victims. The Parliament will discuss the number 1 proposal in a four-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. At the request of the Jobbik and the LMP Group, the resolution on certain house rules is 37 Paragraph 4 states that the time frame available to the political group will be doubled in the event of the adoption of a time-frame negotiation. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the motion to split the time frame.
u2017-10-30-23	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the proposed timeframe, in the light of the time frame increases, is as follows: 82 minutes for the Fidesz Group; 45 minutes for the MSZP Group, 41 minutes for the Jobbik Group, with a doubling in total of 82 minutes; 38 minutes for the KDNP Group, 25 minutes for the LMP Group, with a doubling in total of 50 minutes; and 9 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2017-10-30-24	Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that the presentation will be discussed in the time frame, as set out by the notary, as amended by the request of Jobbik and LMP. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House adopted the proposal for a time-frame negotiation by 138 votes to 19 votes against. We are now deciding on proposals for a derogation from house rules. The House Committee, in derogation from the house rules, initiates the Parliament to act as LIII of 1994 on judicial enforcement. T/18004. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, move away from the house rules in such a way that the final vote can take place on tomorrow's day. The proposal for a derogation from the house rule was made by T/18004/3. You can get to know him on the website. I ask the House whether it will contribute to the departure from house rules. Now, please vote. [[Vote.]] Departure from house rules was voted by 157 votes in favour, 3 against and 1 abstention by this House. In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be tabled today at 15:6 a.m. The consolidated debate on the bill, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The House Committee, in its derogation from the house rules, initiates the National Assembly to act as H/18032 on the promotion of the Minority SafePack European Citizens' Initiative. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, move away from the house rules in such a way that the final vote can take place on tomorrow's sitting. The relevant proposal is H/18032/1. You can know it on the website. I ask the House whether it will contribute to the departure from house rules. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the proposal for a derogation from house rules by 160 votes to two, without abstention. Accordingly, amendments can be tabled today at 15:7 p.m. The joint debate on the proposal will take place on today's sitting, the decision on the draft amendments and the final vote on tomorrow's meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, We are now deciding on the amendments to the agenda. The Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party has proposed that on the Thursday meeting of the National Assembly CXXVI of 1996 on the use of a specific part of personal income tax according to the provisions of the taxpayer. T/18008. 2012 CXLVII on the specific tax of small companies and the small company tax. Act amending law should take place after the hearing of the bill. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group also proposed that the 1994 LIII on judicial enforcement. T/18004. The joint debate of the legislative proposal No.3 shall take place on the Tuesday meeting of the Parliament following the speeches before the agenda. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands as well. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has accepted the amendment. The Fidesz Group has proposed that T/18005 on the amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sport LXXXVII of 2013 on the day of the Parliament's meeting on the general debate on the campaign costs of the election of Members of Parliament. T/18003. Following a general discussion of the legislative proposal No. Anyone who agrees with that, please also indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group still proposed that the 2010 LXXV on simplified employment. T/18009. For the general debate of bill No.1 on the Thursday meeting of the Parliament, XCIII of 1990 on fees. T/18010 on the amendment of the Act Following a general discussion of the legislative proposal No. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has also adopted this proposal. The Fidesz Group has proposed that the 2005 LII on the ratification and publication of the Agreements signed between the Republic of Hungary and the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man and the dependent or associated Caribbean areas with a view to implementing the obligations laid down in Council Directive 2003/48/EC on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. T/1777. The final vote of bill No. 1 shall not take place on the Tuesday sitting of the Parliament. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. [[14.10]] The Fidesz Group has proposed that the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Lebanon, of the other part, and the T/17779 on the publication of the protocols attached thereto. The final vote of bill No. 1 shall not take place on the Tuesday sitting of the Parliament. All in favor of this, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear House, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear House, In the absence of a committee agreement, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the designated Judicial Committee is invited by the Parliamentary Report on the activities of the Committee on National Remembrance in 2016 B/1791. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has asked the Committee to negotiate and take decisions by 113 votes in favour, 43 against and one abstention. It follows our decision on the personal proposal. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Széchenyi Dezső to present the S/18081. The content of the personal proposal.
u2017-10-30-25	13/2014 on the establishment of parliamentary committees, the election of its officials and members. Point 1 of Parliamentary Decision No 1 is amended as follows. The Parliament elects István Hollik, István KDNP, Mónika Dunai, Fidesz, to be a member of the committee. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2017-10-30-26	I ask this House whether it accepts S/18081. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House has adopted the personal proposal unanimously by 158 votes in favour. Now, at 2:14 p.m., we're going to proceed to the discussion of interpellations, immediate questions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, as the Speaker of Parliament, the House Rules of Decision 121. Under my authority under Article 4 (a), Attila Mesterházy MSZP representative K/17734, 17736, 17738, 17739, 17741, 17742, 17745 and 17746, and Ms Anita Heringes, also MSZP representative I/18017. I rejected your interpellation No.3 because the motions are not part of the government's remit. Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. Why is it in the interest of the Fidesz government to keep millions of Hungarian workers in a continuously and deliberately vulnerable position for eight years? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2017-10-30-27	Ladies and gentlemen, In the last eight years, a lot of things have happened in the world of work that they do not have to be too proud of. I don't know if you did this on purpose, or you were driven by ignorance, but you didn't benefit the vast majority of people. Think about it. I'll give you some examples. When the value of HUF 2 million was announced in terms of the pay ceiling, then when the Fidesz bigwigs took over the places at the head of the state companies, or the pereputty was able to secure the right places, the mates were properly served, they had already raised this to HUF 5 million. In the framework of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, even this, if any, is considered to be little. In the meantime, in terms of public employment, to look at another pole, they paid HUF 47,000 net on the move instead of the net wage of HUF 60 200 in 2010, and now they are at HUF 53-54,000. From Dante's divine act, it could be recalled that, who you enter here, give up all hope, because that's what you have done. That's what they did, even took a third of the purchasing power of their money away from these people. But if you look at the public sector, you have done that eight years ago, in an unprecedented manner, there has never been such a four-year cycle since the moment of the regime change, so that the civil servant's salary does not increase. Today, too, 38 650 forints, but also the payrolls have been frozen. I can give you countless examples, today a two-graduate person in the public sector earns a sum equal to 161 thousand forints, i.e. the guaranteed minimum wage. That's a shame. And you have to add that they've shattered everything they can. The National Stakeholder Council has been terminated, the NGT, the National Economic Council has been set up, which functions as a prison, or there is a permanent consultation forum between the government and entrepreneurs, which is run in the same way, but they really do not give room for these forums, and many such examples could be given. They brought a new labour code, in which workers were made more vulnerable, for which flexibility was given to employers, but the workers were clearly pressed against the wall. Through this workbook, they make a multitude of people impossible. But the strike law, which has been amended, can be mentioned, or it can also be mentioned, that they are trying to fool people through false employment statistics. The conclusion of all this is that, in practice, wage differences are created, so that hundreds of thousands of people are constantly leaving this country. Well, that's what you did, that's your crime.
u2017-10-30-28	Mr. Congressman, your written question is available to the members of the government, but I'm just saying that the interpellation usually ends with a question you forgot to ask, but then obviously the replyer will tell you what you wanted to know. [[Defiance.]] Here you go, Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés.
u2017-10-30-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I know more or less the content of the questions, because I don't know how many dozen times you've asked your questions on a similar subject, or you're trying to push the question you've been pushing. It is interesting to listen to you, you socialists, when you talk about Hungarian workers, but let us not forget that during your governance there were about 750 thousand fewer people in this country than there are today. In many cases, the MSZP government has provided aid instead of work. I would remind Mr President that during the entire term of office of the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments, the net increase in real earnings was only 2 percent. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that unemployment has never been as low since the change of regime as it is today. In addition to increasing employment, an increase in employee income is also considered to be outstanding. Between 2010 and 2016, real wages, together with family tax incentives, increased by almost 24 percent in the country, and this year's real wages rose by more than 10 percent in the first eight months of the year. [[14.20]] If we project this for the whole year, the purchase value of wages has increased by nearly 36 percent in seven years. I would also like to remind you that in your time - I am talking not only about the governments of Gyurcsány and Bajnai, but also about the period between 2002 and 2010, which is one year longer than the period of the current two Orbán governments - real wages have all increased by 14 percent, which was your performance, so between 2002 and 2010, real wages have only increased by 14 percent in your time. With the help of career models, with the help of career schemes, wages in the public sector have increased significantly over the past period when the economy enabled wage increases in the public sector. This means, over the past year, that wages in the public sector have increased by more than 10 percent, it can almost be said that the driving sector of real wages has been in the public sector. Of course, today, unfortunately, territorial wage differences persist as a legacy and as a result of the inheritance, but in recent years this difference has decreased significantly. Wages have increased more, real wages have increased more in areas and geographical areas where wages have been significantly lower than in other areas of the country. Thus, territorial wage differences have decreased significantly, including by increasing the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, as a result of tax reductions and wage agreements at the end of last year. Of course, the criticism that you have expressed about the renewal of the majority state-owned companies' senior employee remuneration system is far from real, because at the time when it was necessary to limit the amount of management wages that could be obtained there, it was necessary to do so. Just because the competitive sphere demands that the leaders also give good quality work, so that the public sector workers can be expected to do so, then of course we had to raise this wage by narrowing down the premization, so the basic wage is paid to the senior employees while we have carried out a very serious check on the wage available there, as well as on the performance there. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] So, Congressman, what I would like to say is that in recent times the numbers, the facts, the measures are rebutting exactly what you are regularly critical of the government's work. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-30	In return, I give the floor back to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2017-10-30-31	Mr. Secretary. You manipulate people with lying statistics. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] in terms of employment, even hundreds of thousands of people employed abroad or public employment, many others, in terms of unemployment, will be thrown out of the care system by anyone who can. You can say anything, more than 600,000 people have been driven out of this country, active and young people, and they are now going abroad to study in most people, and this intention is being strengthened. Today Hungarian mothers are born abroad, every sixth and seventh of Hungarian children are born abroad. Hundreds of thousands of others want to leave this country because of your policy, increase vulnerability, while the number of work accidents has decreased by 40 percent before your administration, and now it has increased by 30 percent in these six years. What are you doing? The policy that you are pursuing is a self-destructive policy that makes people's lives impossible. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] That's what they should get rid of. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-30-32	So, as I understand it, the congressman didn't accept the answer. [[Nándor Gúr: You don't have to say that either!]] But, but, you have to say, because it's a genre requirement. [[Defiance. Nándor Gúr's intervention.]] So, I drew from the Member that he did not accept the answer. I ask the House if it will accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 107 votes to 37, with no abstentions. János Volner, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. Is there really a desire to alleviate labour shortages with people from the Far East? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-10-30-33	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The head of the construction company Market has made a shocking statement to the press. In this he said that in a short time Chinese, Vietnamese, Indonesian and Pakistani migrant workers would replace the labour force lost due to the shortage of Hungarian workers. My question is, given that Viktor Orbán is one of his favourite Lőrinc Mészáros, we can say that István Garancsi is the second Lőrince Mészáros to the Prime Minister, whether we can consider this statement to be the forerunner of government policy. Are you planning on installing migrants in Hungary? This question is also justified because previously Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, said that Hungary will soon reach the point where the labour shortage of the Hungarian economy will have to be overcome by the resettlement of migrants and the introduction of low-wage migrants from abroad. [[György Balla: He never said that!]] The question is, do you really mean that? [[György Balla: He never said that! The president's ringing the bell.]] According to the government side, it is okay that 600,000 Hungarians are forced to work abroad because of low salaries, pay taxes there, create value there, drive away practically Hungarian people and replace their place with cheap workers from the East? These questions, ladies and gentlemen, are to be answered. However, it is very important to note, at the same time as the question, that the Orbán government has settled nearly fifteen times as many people in Hungary through the dirty settlement bond business as the European Union would like to install in Hungary in the first step of the compulsory resettlement quota which you have otherwise supported. [[Peter Cseresnyés: What?]] It is important to see that the Orbán government has given its consent to this, and this 18,000 people, plus, by the way, let us not forget about the 730 people with so-called protection status who were only deployed in Hungary this year, thanks to you, would also be on the Hungarian labour market. So my question to the Secretary of State is whether the government model of the future will be that cheap workers in the East will be settled in Hungary and replaced with them by the loss of Hungarian labour force. Will the Hungarian model of the future be that the Prime Minister's favorite oligarchs earn an additional HUF 120 billion through settlement bond business? And will the Hungarian model be that all these lies are constantly being pushed down the throats of the Hungarian people through their public-funded party press? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-30-34	Once again, I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go.
u2017-10-30-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would not like to open a debate about immigration, but, speaking of immigration, I would like to say that it is a question of interpretation: read and, by the way, understand exactly what is in the sentences, what can be read out of the sentences, because Mr Varga never said what you were trying to quote from him. You've got it all wrong, you've got it all wrong, what you just quoted here. There was no mention of this in his interview. But since you've mentioned immigration, allow me to explain the following. If you hadn't read your party president's statement, Gábor Vona said that you could think about the quota. I quote your President's statement, and he says: "The quota system has already come up, does it not, that we distribute immigrants on the basis of quotas, and as long as this is about, say, a few thousand people, I say, "I say," says your President, "that's okay, you can think about that." I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[György Balla: Congratulations! An uproar in Jobbik's ranks.]] There's footage of it, so I think you should look at it and interpret these sentences. So, about who said what, who wants what, you can open a separate debate. Of course, I would also like to go back to the content of the issue, but I definitely think it is necessary to clarify the concepts, because it seems that the Member does not distinguish between illegal migration, foreign investors and foreign nationals working for work in Hungary from third countries. The latter are those who can work in Hungary with an official work permit and are called migrant workers. This has nothing to do with general migration, in particular with its illegal form, which the government strongly, I would like to emphasise, strongly reject. [[14.30]] As can be seen from its designation, migrant workers only stay in Hungary for temporary work and leave the country after the period of validity of the work permit has expired. They can only get a limited number of work permits, as the Hungarian labour market is protected by a quota, which is far from being exploited by domestic businesses. This figure, the number that shows how many third country workers can be employed as migrant workers each year, was 65 thousand in 2004 and so many worked in Hungary. At the moment, this quota is 50,000, and 10 000 people are working as third country workers in Hungary today. [[Dr. István Apáti: Thank you.]] So what you're trying to describe here as an alarm, there's no danger at all. There were always guest workers, in all countries and in Hungary, as I said, in 2004 they had 65 thousand, and last year there were 10 thousand people working in Hungary. So neither numbers should be misinterpreted, nor thoughts should be expressed, inspired, that have no basis for reality. We want to solve the employment problems and tensions that are in the labour market with Hungarian workers, and we want Hungarian workers for Hungarian jobs. To this end, we have adapted vocational training, for example, by making the acquisition of the second profession free. And adult education measures have been taken and adult education has been subject to changes that will make it possible. One of the tools for this is, for example, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] transfer from public employment to the primary labour market, resulting in around 40,000 less people working in public employment from last year to this year. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-36	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2017-10-30-37	Mr President, I cannot accept the answer because of the treason that has been done here with the acceptance of migrants [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] You can't help it, Mr. Secretary of State, by calling migrants migrant workers. These people are migrants, and if they ask the Hungarian people if they want to live with the Chinese, Pakistani and the others, they will say that they do not, because we want to share this country with Hungarian people. Even if you call them guest workers, the Hungarian people do not want to live with them. He's a guest worker just like Ghaith Pharaon was, isn't he? He arrived as a guest worker, working with the Prime Minister's immediate environment. So much for the threat to the country, Mr. Secretary, to a man who is otherwise supported by U.S. authorities with funding from terrorist organisations. And you guys are very keen on doing business with him. Shame and shame! [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-30-38	Congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the House whether it accepts the reply of the Secretary of State. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 109 votes to 34, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy, representative of LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office:. Systematic public procurement abuse at the ÁEEK? It's an address. In reply to the interpellation, Prime Minister has appointed the Ministry of Human Resources with responsibility and competence according to the subject. Congressman's got the floor.
u2017-10-30-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is not the first time that I would like to ask the Prime Minister's Office on this subject or on a similar subject, but they are regularly dropping the reply. I don't blame you, because this subject is so difficult to defend. While the Hungarian health care system is bleeding from a thousand wounds - medical, nursing, lack of means, emigration, regenerating hospital debt, hospital infections and could still be classified as long-term, the State Healthcare Center has become a synonym for irresponsible public finance management. I asked a question a week ago, and I wanted to go to the Prime Minister's Office, but I still had to settle for Mr. Retvári. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] , in the case of the procurement of a corruption-suspected sleeping machine cancelled by the Public Procurement Decision Committee, which resulted in a fine of HUF 5 million. The increase in similar cases - we are now at a fine of HUF 100 million, and there is the fifth overdue public procurement within a few months - obviously require the intervention of the Prime Minister's Office, which is primarily supervising the spending of EU funds, as the story continued with a similarly corruption-suspecting ÁEEC public procurement, which I presented a few weeks ago. The arbitration panel in this other procedure has obviously already fined the hospital maintenance for HUF 30 million due to the numerous violations of the State Health Centre, with the annulment of the entire public procurement procedure. Once again, it wasn't the first one last Friday, and there it was about care facilities for the cancelled public procurement, along with billions of forints. We're at 100 million forints. It was illegal to exclude breakdown into parts, they do not allow breakdown into parts, as the lab equipment should be delivered to the winner in such a wide range that a manufacturer or distributor would obviously not be able to perform. This solution is favourable for so-called packaging companies that have good relations with government circles - that is what fairer people call these companies - who are regular winners of public health procurement. The call is obviously restrictive of competition, since small businesses operating in the specific field are already running out of chance. It's as if they're trying to buy transport vehicles with a single public procurement, and they want to buy electric locomotives and small motors or bicycles at the same time. We're at a hundred million forints. The question is, how much longer can this continue, who bears responsibility for - and this is a very important issue - if the behaviour of the public body puts human lives at risk. They wanted to buy defibrillators in the last public procurement, and they can't get them for a long time. I'm gonna miss these, those 60 defibrillators. Is there an internal or external investigation into the organised infringement of public procurement practices or specific public procurement in relation to the ÁEECs, or is such an investigation planned? Thank you.
u2017-10-30-40	The subject falls within the competence and competence of the EMMI. I give the floor to Secretary Bence Rétvári.
u2017-10-30-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You talk about various corruption charges on a regular basis, honourable Member, but you continue to ignore the biggest corruption case. There may be a reason for this, because in your faction, the May Other in the Political Group, there is now a Deputy State Secretary serving in the former MSZP-SZDSZ government, a former socialist representative, your campaign manager, the former Socialist campaign chief, Ron Werber. It may not be a coincidence that LMP is trying to cover up corruption cases committed during the socialist period, and you are not saying one word about the biggest corruption case, the corruption case of Metro 4. As regards the Hungarian public procurement rules, honourable Member, according to the latest report by the European Commission, it is highlighted that in Hungary all data on public procurement will be on the Internet, accessible to all, and therefore Hungary is at the forefront of European public procurement rules in terms of transparency. In terms of transparency, Denmark, Finland, the Netherlands and Sweden are also preceded by Hungarian legislation. In 2017 88 percent of high-value public procurement took place under open procedures in the first eight months of this year, with 85 percent being successful. On average, eight offers were received per call. This is a number that shows a realistic competition that eight offers are received in one call. In the first half, the number of unbidden procedures decreased by 40 percent compared to the same period of the previous year. At the same time, many new instruments have been acquired in the health care sector, which is true, honourable Member, because the purchase of medical instruments is very high. That's why there's a lot more procedure than, say, a decade ago. If we look only at the Healthy Budapest, only this year, the Budapest and Pest county medical instruments will arrive in approximately 17 hospitals in Budapest and Pest county, with a total of HUF 21 billion. For the rest of the year, this HUF 21 billion instrument must be acquired and, if possible, delivered to hospitals, so that the facilities of hospitals in Budapest and Pest County are close to the rural hospitals. If I add it up, we're up to 170 billion forints in the purchase of different machines and instruments. By the way, the State Health Services Center has submitted its various documents against these decisions, which have been listed, to the court. However, it is not yet a legitimate decision. Let's wait for the final decision of the courts. However, these documents have been subject to technical, professional, eligibility and public procurement control by the competent authorities and have also been approved. The arbitration panel also stated that it did not see any sign of intentional infringement. [[14.40]] However, we know about you, honourable Member, that even in land affairs, you have said to your own family, in terms of land conditions, that you will resign if there are false data. Turns out the data you gave me wasn't real, but you didn't cancel. And we also remember the lawsuit with your neighbor, which made it impossible for seven people with disabilities to have jobs. You referred to an application, honourable Member, submitted to the Public Procurement Decision Committee by a company, an American multi-company for which you have already lobbied here in Parliament. I certainly went up to your website, looked at the contents of your website, and it is true that, no, you can find the request from the US multi-company on your website. And if you look at the data sheet of this scanned document, you can see that it was submitted to the Public Procurement Decision Committee on 7 August 2017, and according to the data sheet, this pdf was scanned on 7 August 2017, on the same day, about 4:30 p.m. Honourable Congressman, You are up on the website of the electronic document. How did you get it? If it isn't a representative of the American company. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Did you guys see each other? Make a statement [[The president's ringing again.]] before the National Assembly: what is your relationship with this American multi-company if you have a document on your website? [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Intercoms from the same place: Bravo! There's grumbles in the room.]]
u2017-10-30-42	Please respectfully, keep your voice down. Once again, Congressman Ákos Hadházy has the floor.
u2017-10-30-43	Thank you very much. Of course, I can't accept the answer, because on the one hand, you didn't answer the question, but if you really want me to talk about subway 4, too, if you like. It's 2017. The cases you refer to were committed in 2006 and 5... [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: in 65?]] Where was your accounting? Where have you been? [[Moraj and interrogations from the benches of the governing parties.]] It's expired, it's gone, it's gone... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Where do they know about criminal prosecution now... If you think it's the biggest corruption case, why didn't you investigate it, and why wasn't there accountability? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: How did the document come up? How did it get there?]] I'd love to talk about it, too. What we're talking about today will be about this, much sooner, I promise you that. By going to court and suing the Hungarian state to buy the ventilators for double money, they are really doing the darkest corruption case. Compared to this, the subway is nothing! Because now that defibrillators are available months or years later because of you, people are dying because of you, and your filthy [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] People will die because of your thefts! Smile like that and laugh like that in Parliament. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: How did the document come up? Interventions from the benches of the governing parties, among other things: Oh! That's some attitude.]]
u2017-10-30-44	Congressman, I urge you to try to choose the words coming out of your mouth. Even if he's angry, which I understand, although he doesn't have a reason. But as I understand it, you forgot to tell me that you didn't accept the answer. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy: No! I started by not accepting it.]] I ask this House to vote - the Member did not accept the answer - if it accepts it. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 109 votes to 29, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Tamás László, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. Another encouraging data from the construction industry! What is the result of the 36.8 % increase in production? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor. [[It's constant noise.]]
u2017-10-30-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, A few years ago, when everyone in the middle of the economic crisis was talking about the low point in construction, few people would have thought or just hoped that today we could talk about the recovery of this sector. According to the data published last week by the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, the production of the Hungarian construction industry grew to the greatest extent in August throughout the European Union, with a total of 36.8 percent. The production of the Polish construction industry increased by only 23.2 percent and the Swedish construction industry by 14.7 percent in August this year compared to August 2016. I believe that these figures are not independent of the government's work, because Fidesz has already established a support system between 1998 and 2002 that has really helped families to get their own home. This did not change after 2010, so the first thing we did was to remove failed foreign currency loans from the banking system, which is why we developed the family home creation program, and that's why the VAT on new-built apartments was reduced. In terms of the future, it is very encouraging that the volume of new contracts concluded has increased by 46 percent compared to the previous year, including contracts for building buildings by 95,4 and by 18.9 percent for building other structures. I believe that the performance of the Hungarian economy and the situation of the Hungarian people have improved a lot in recent years, and this gives families the opportunity to get their own homes with the support of the state. On this basis, I ask the Secretary of State: what is the result of the 36.8 percent increase in production? [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-30-46	I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2017-10-30-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you have said, construction is the dominant sector of the Hungarian national economy, which acts as a catalyst for economic development, performance and even the performance of many sectors, and its tangible results can be achieved in almost all areas of life, from the construction of new homes to the development of public utilities. With the dynamic growth in construction production, it has again reached and even exceeded the values found at the end of the previous EU budget cycle, and from January 2016 a process of growth has started which is now a lasting and continuous process. The government's efforts to boost construction have shown that, after the closure of the previous EU budget cycle, construction production recovered from a sharp and rapid decline in August 2017, as you said, it exceeded the value of a year earlier, to an outstanding extent, within the European Union, by 36.8 percent. The increase is clearly indicated by the 46 percent increase in the number of new contracts concluded and the outstanding 89.7 percent increase in the volume of end-month contracts. Within the contracts concluded, the number of contracts for building buildings increased by more than 95 percent, mainly thanks to new contracts for industrial and residential buildings. In addition, the number of new housing constructions increased significantly by 46 percent, so in the first half of 2017, more than 5,000 new apartments were built. The number of building permits and simple announcements issued increased to nearly 20 thousand, thus exceeding 40 percent of the data a year earlier. On the basis of the new building permits issued, it is planned to build 11 percent more residential buildings with a total of 6841 units, which shows an increase in the number of private orders and suggests the possibility of further expansion. As a result of the economic activity, the number of employees in the construction sector has also increased since 2014. In the third quarter of 2017, the number of employees in the construction sector increased significantly; 34,000 more people worked than a year earlier, thus reaching 317 thousand people. In the first half of 2017, there were 3600 more registered companies in the construction sector. With this rise, their number reached 92,600. The background of the increase in construction performance is essentially the favourable economic environment, which is strengthened by the targeted government measures previously introduced, such as the family home-building discount, the preferential housing tax, a significant extension of access to CSOK, and the tax refund aid. These measures support both the demand and supply side of the housing market. The performance certification body plays a significant role in the growth of the construction sector, which has contributed greatly to the whitening of the construction sector; compared to previous years, the size of the chain debt has decreased. The government's clear aim is to support the development of the construction sector; to further increase the number of construction orders; to increase the level of investment carried out in addition to increasing the competitiveness of domestic businesses; and to provide the Hungarian population with the opportunities that [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] make home creation easier and the infrastructure environment more developed. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] [[14.50]]
u2017-10-30-48	In return, I give the floor to Tamás László again.
u2017-10-30-49	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. I'll let you know I'll take it. It should be seen that the increase in production is accompanied by the restructuring of the construction sector, drawing on indeed many sectors. Our problems associated with this are positive problems, such as the labour shortage in the construction sector; this is definitely mitigated by the wage increases that we also see very positively in a year's time. The increase in labour costs is 15 per cent nationwide, 20 per cent in Budapest, 25 per cent in Budapest and 35 per cent in Budapest. The question may arise as to whether this economic activity will survive. I must say that the Fidesz-KDNP government is planning for a long time. If this government stays, and it will stay, we will keep and expand the CSOK, and we will launch new development programmes. I think we have all the hope that this economic activity will last. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-30-50	Dear Parliament, László Varga, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. How long will the current public employment be maintained? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-10-30-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Poverty affects approximately one in three people in Hungary today. Each year, extreme poverty is increasing, and those in such a hopeless situation cannot find a way out. Unfortunately, the real help of the state and the government is becoming less and less to be expected. Public employment only leads very few back to the primary labour market, but the majority is hindered by real job search. The wage for the public workers is not nearly enough to raise the family above the poverty line, and it is far below the minimum level of living. Most of the public workers have extremely poor living conditions, income and housing conditions. The nature of the work done rarely represents real work experience, the situation of public workers is not facilitated by poor working conditions and humiliating conditions. I would like to point out here that respect for the exception, respect for the mayors and workers who put the emphasis on real value creation in the work and create real, decent working conditions, but that is entirely up to their performance. It also needs to be seen that if there is no regular employment in the family, it will inevitably lead to widespread poverty, which will also prevent real work and affect childbearing. That is why there would be an urgent need for value-creating programmes, ascension training, which could provide the way for real work and decent living. Today, therefore, there is a bad balance in public employment, which is becoming more and more difficult for many to get out of. Those who are unable to acquire adequate knowledge and skills in the public employment system lose their ability to work under market conditions. So here is the government's responsibility, in my view: only training and catching-up programmes should be and should be put in place that could give those involved a chance to actually be placed in labour market conditions. So what we socialists want is for everyone to have the opportunity to learn and earn a decent living from their own work. It has also made a lot worse, Mr. Secretary of State, by reducing the obligation to teach, and in recent years, many people over 16 years of age have been allowed into the system of public work without a degree or skill, because this HUF 54 thousand obviously seemed to them temporarily a more attractive opportunity, and their later positions have, of course, been greatly impaired. This amount is unworthy, it does not help you to make a living, even with a child, even if you have a child, it doesn't mean as much income as it would make a decent living. The question therefore arises, Mr Secretary of State: how long will the current public employment system be maintained? When can these people get the right knowledge and skills? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And when are they really helping them get along in the labour market? Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2017-10-30-52	I give the floor to Secretary Tibor Pogácsás.
u2017-10-30-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I feel, honourable Member, that you formulated this interpellation 8-9 years ago when there was neither work nor public employment nor the prospect of people coming out of poverty or extreme poverty. The data you quote is inaccurate, they have nothing to do with reality. In the poverty indicators, a trend shift took place in 2013, with virtually 800,000 people out of poverty since 2012 and the number of people living in extreme poverty has fallen to less than 200,000 today. We have managed to achieve this by reducing public debt, and we have managed to achieve this by allowing the Hungarian economy to grow, employment is on record. With employment on record, we also see at a pace that public employment is also on a downward trend. So fewer and fewer people need to be involved in public employment. In your written interpellation, you say that a significant proportion of the 16-year-olds leave school before graduation in order to allow the seduction of public employment of HUF 54 thousand. It's an absurd way of putting it. Overall, we see that at the moment some 281 young people under the age of 18 are in public employment. In the vast majority of these, either after finishing primary school or not finished primary school, our programmes are designed to ensure that these young people and young adults, over 20 years of age, complete primary school and take part in courses to ensure the acquisition of basic competences. Honourable Congressman, In addition to public employment, we will, of course, make sure that appropriate training is started. For example, the programme for training low-skilled and public workers in 2016-2018, which provides some 85 thousand people with training. This 85 thousand will be given the opportunity to fill the gaps in knowledge that hinder employment, develop, acquire or enter the primary labour market, or, if they are still under-qualified, to gain initial education that will enable them to further learn and acquire new knowledge in the skills of shortages. In addition, mentors and mentors are engaged in mentoring and mentoring in order to start their careers and help them to work. The job protection action plan was clearly aimed at keeping people who could be held in employment. About 917 thousand people and workers have been kept in the primary labour market in this form. In 2016, the number of public workers was 223 thousand, this year is expected to be reduced to some 175 thousand, and by 2020 the number of public workers is expected to fall to 150 thousand. This clearly shows that, with the recovery of the economy and the strengthening of the economy, more and more people are able to work on the primary labour market, and indeed, as a result of training, regular work and regular work, people can also be placed on the primary labour market. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-30-54	I ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2017-10-30-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I can't accept your answer. About 600,000 people left this country, and the last eight years have brought this. That is why there is a shortage of workers, their work is very lacking in this country. You have created the amazing situation in the last eight years that in total areas there is a shortage of labour at the same time due to emigration, but there is also huge unemployment, because there are hundreds of thousands of people in a situation where they do not have adequate qualifications and qualifications. You put these people in the community service program, you keep them there, you preserve this problem. The problem is therefore very serious, and I think it does not help at all, despite your apologies that the school obligation has been delivered for 16 years, because these students, who are very many, have no chance of getting out of the public education system by tens of thousands. There are value-creating programs, but in my experience it's only because of local added value, the sacrifice of mayors. Thank you, Mr President, I cannot accept the answer.
u2017-10-30-56	Congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask this House to vote on its acceptance. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 107 votes to 27, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:. By means of anti-law law, do they strike the final battle against the last bastions of the rule of law? It's an address. It's up to Congressman. [[15.00]]
u2017-10-30-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. The Orbán government launched a double attack on judicial independence when the new administration system was set up in 2012. They gave an amazing overpower to the president of the National Court Office, and the post was replaced by the wife of a fidesz fundamental man, the Hando Fairy. The new system is subject to a number of international and domestic criticisms. One of the most serious criticisms is that one person close to Fidesz has been placed in the hands of who can be a court leader or fill a higher court post. This was the purpose of the institution of inefficiencies, the original rules of which did not even stop before the Constitutional Court. In 2013, the board stated that it was against the law if it was not specified precisely what specific reasons the president of the OBH could declare a tender ineffective if there were more than one suitable candidate. Finally, the Law on Legal Status has been amended by the Constitutional Court and international pressure, but Tünde Hando has continued his appointment practice in recent years, so we can say that there are still concerns that the Board of Chambers has canceled the regulation, i.e. the redesigned legislation is still likely to be against the basic law. Tünde Handó can continue today to declare judicial applications inconclusive as he pleases, on the grounds that the changes in the organisation of work following the post make the filling of the post unjustified and then, with the same momentum, put the new application on the post of the same court. If this is done by a private company, i.e. untruely referring to work organisation reasons, it will certainly be cancelled by the labour court. How constitutional can the law and OBH-presidential practice that endangers judicial independence be, which the Hungarian legal system does not allow even for private companies? The fact that there is a judge, Dr. Csaba Vasvári, who dared to sue Fae Hando, is a saucy addition to the above, because after being number one twice in the Metropolitan Court of Justice, the president of the OBH wrote it out for the third time just so that he wouldn't have to be appointed. For the third time, when a more reliable judge finished in the first place, the winner was immediately appointed. This job should have been terminated twice by the OBH president's decision. This procedure is nonsense, and if it is formally legal, then the legislation enabling it is certainly not constitutional. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] On the basis of the above, I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether he does not think that the current legal system for the award of judicial applications is still against the law, under which the arbitrary appointment exercise in Tünde Hando could be maintained. When are you finally going to submit to Parliament the amendment of the law that permanently liquidates the arbitrariness of the Fundamental Law, which the Constitutional Court has already ordered you to do in its decision in 2013? In this, I look forward to a meaningful response. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-30-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. State Secretary Pál Völner will answer the interpellation question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-30-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First of all, I think it is important to clarify that judicial independence is guaranteed by our Fundamental Law, that judges are independent and subject only to the law and cannot be ordered in their judicial activities. In Hungary, the administration of the court is its own, that it is also completely organisationally independent of the executive power. I would like to state that, contrary to what has been said in the Member's interpellation, the examination of judicial applications is a complicated, multi-player process, as well as the examination of applications, the appointments of managers can only take place on the basis of objective criteria and in a transparent manner, within 15 days of the deadline for the application, the court, the administrative and labour court and, in the case of a tender to the court, the judicial council of the court, in the case of a competition to the judge's table, in the case of a tender to the Curia, will hear the applicants and rank the applications according to the scores achieved. On the basis of the law on the status and remuneration of judges, although the judge is the President of the National Court of Justice or the President of the Curia in the case of tenders issued to the Curia, only the candidate ranked by the Board of Judges in the first three places has a chance to be appointed as a judge, and the only candidate ranked first may be appointed without prior agreement of the National Council of Judges, because the President of the National Court of Justice may, only if the National Council of Judges agrees, submit appointing a candidate other than the one in the first place of the ranking, or consider the tender by transferring a candidate other than the candidate in the first place of the ranking. It should also be stressed that the power of the President of the National Court of Justice to declare the application invalid is not arbitrary, but rests on the basis of the legal basis established by the amendments adopted by the Parliament following the position of the Venice Commission and then of the Constitutional Court. As regards the changes in the organisation of work following the opening of the application: please allow me, honourable Member, to draw your attention to the fact that the conduct of a judicial job application is usually a multi-month process, during which circumstances may arise concerning the case or staff issues which justify the lack of grounds for applying to a judicial post. On this basis, the government does not believe that the current legal system for the award of judicial applications is against the law. On the contrary, I believe that the legislation in force is intended to facilitate the effective functioning of justice. This is also confirmed by the five years that have passed, which has shown that no malfunctions have been caused by the development of this practice and the implementation of this regulation. I ask you, Congressman, to accept my answer. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will also ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's reply. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-10-30-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Unfortunately, you didn't answer the point, Mr. Secretary. What if the president of the OBH's decision is against the law? What if you refer to work organisation reasons, but they do not stand up and rewrite applications? Anyway, in case you didn't know, the press also said that Tünde Hando's assessment report was supposedly dropped twice in the spring by the National Judicial Council, so the atmosphere is boiling even within the courts. I could also mention that the term of office of the head of the Metropolitan Tribunal will be terminated on 5 January, and that the tender should be launched 90 days before it, which expired on 5 October, but nothing has yet happened. In these situations, who can intervene? It is no coincidence, by the way, that, according to the news at the Pest Central District Court in connection with the election of the OBT, Dr. Csaba Vasvári received the applause of dozens of candidates who drew attention to these problems. Listen to the criticisms that come from within the court system, because it will be a big problem if they do not. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-30-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I ask the House whether it will accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 27 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Gaal, a representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development: what does the government do in terms of transport to increase Hungary's transit role by increasing the added value of goods within the country? It's an address. I give the floor to Congressman Gaal Gergely. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-10-30-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Due to Hungary's geopolitical situation, our geographical location determines that most of the foreign goods in our region go through Hungary. As a result, logistics produces almost 6.5 percent of the Hungarian GDP, and the 40,000 logistics companies related to the sector employ 250,000 people. [[15.10]] The sector has been growing year after year since the crisis, and Hungary can expect new opportunities with the distribution of goods from the Far East. In the interest of fair carriers, the government closely controls the transport permits and seeks to ensure that Hungarian entrepreneurs can transport in the country. The aim of the electronic road traffic control system, the introduction of the EKÁER in 2015 is to monitor the real journey of goods, to ensure the payment of public burdens on supplies and sales, and to prevent the placing on the market in Hungary of goods that were not previously declared to the tax authority. There are also challenges for other means of transport. In rail freight, it was such a challenge for Hungary that Russia has no interest in transiting Chinese goods through Ukraine, so their route can also avoid Hungary. Nevertheless, Hungary's transit role is strong, but we cannot rest, because of the country's geographical situation it needs to be further strengthened. In addition to the transit role, foreign goods must not only pass through but also stop and increase their domestic value in the country. Dear Secretary of State, In order to achieve the above, parallel development of air, water, rail and road transport infrastructure is needed in order to strengthen the logistics role. But the development cannot stop here, because to increase added value, we need complex investments and incentives to make it worthwhile for foreign businesses to invest in Hungary. We can already see such initiatives, but government help and will always act as a catalyst for such developments. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State what steps the government is taking from a transport point of view to develop the logistics industry, and because the government is helping Hungary to increase its transit role by increasing the value added of goods within the country. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-30-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, has answered his interpellation question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-30-65	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Your question is justified and timely, as the world market is not only competitive in certain sectors and in certain countries, but also in the main transport directions. Hungary is obviously interested in this competition in terms of its geographical location, present and future. There is nothing more evidence of this than the fact that the gross added value generated by transport and storage on an annual basis, according to the latest data, is close to HUF 2000 billion. The sector's contribution, as you said, reached 6.5 percent. Logistics has given jobs to 250-270,000 people last year; its role in employment is well characterised by the fact that construction or health and social care provide bread for roughly the same number of families. The government contributes primarily to the growth of the sector's competitiveness at national and corporate level by ensuring adequate infrastructure and regulation, but it also improves the situation of domestic carriers, transporters and logistics companies through a number of measures. Hungary is expected to spend more than HUF 800 billion on the development of roads belonging to the trans-European transport network and almost 1300 billion on the modernisation of TEN-T railway lines by 2022. These sources are planned to include the development of the Hungarian section of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, the reconstruction of the Kelenföld-Pusztaszabolcs railway section, the replacement of the southern rail bridge, the upgrading of motorways and motorways between the Miskolc-Slovak border and the Debrecen-Romanian border. EU support will help to improve the conditions for the cross-border interoperability of freight trains, the conditions for shipping in Danube and Tisza and further improve the infrastructure capacity of our regional airports. The government provides a level playing field for market participants in the area of regulation, thereby supporting the functioning of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary that follow the standards. A specific working group has been set up to monitor road freight transport, and a national axle weighing system has been established to protect the road network, in addition to the mapping of overweight carriers with undue competitive advantage. The electronic road traffic control system introduced at the beginning of 2015 and mentioned by you also pursues similar objectives. We established the foundations of a new logistics network with the designation of Zalaegerszeg, Békéscsaba, Záhony, Paks, the government decided to implement the national industrial park concept in last year's government decision. The people put forward are a good example of the government's continued commitment to the continued support of nearly 40 thousand Hungarian logistics companies. We are convinced that government measures have greatly contributed to Hungary's progress from 40th in 2012 to 31st in the World Bank's logistics performance index of 160 countries. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-30-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Gaal Gergely if he will accept the reply of the Secretary of State. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-10-30-67	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer. CHAPTER XXI It is also very important to be able to use our geographical situation in a rational way, and it is encouraging to increase the transit role of our country for the government and thus strengthen our role in the blood flow of the world economy, and to strengthen the value added of goods within the country in this respect. I respectfully accept your reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-30-68	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Now, representatives of Mr. Ákos Hadházy and István Ikotity, the representatives of the LMP, who have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources, are now following:. Why is a stadium more important than people's health and mass sports? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity, the notary of the Parliament, asks the question on behalf of the interpelliers. Here you go.
u2017-10-30-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In June I asked you a written question and asked how much money has been spent on health-prevention programmes since 2014, which could make a significant contribution to improving the health of Hungarian people. We are convinced that this is very necessary in Hungary. 54 percent of the Hungarian adult population is obese, 71 percent for middle-aged men. More than two thirds of the population don't play sports for 10 minutes a day. Hungary is ranked 5th in the EU in the death rate. Among the most common causes of death are diseases associated with poor diets, low-mobility lifestyles, including myocardial infarction, stroke, and cancers. I was a little naively hoping that in a country with 150 billion forints to host a water vb, where the cost of Arsenal's or Bayern Munich's facilities could hide behind the 190 billion forints of a Puskás stadium, we would see in their response that at least that much is spent on human health. However, as we have read, according to their own statement, since 2014, a total of HUF 19.5 billion has been spent on prevention programmes in three years, i.e. only one tenth of the costs of Puskás Stadium have been spent for these purposes in three years. I wasn't surprised that when I asked you and the Hungarian Olympic Committee more than once about the amount of money spent on recreational recreation development compared to top sports and competition, I never got a straight answer from you. I suspect it's not a coincidence. The amount of Puskás Stadium is not flying in this area either. A XXI. One of the most serious parts of health in the 20th century should focus on disease prevention, promoting a healthy lifestyle, while ensuring a healthy living environment. [[15.20]] If people live a healthy and happy life, they can also relieve the burden of health care, reduce the burden of employers, and more importantly, live a meaningful, full and happy life in this country. Instead of meeting these goals, we see that the government's intention is to cut public funds, including the development of facilities and events related to various top sports, rather than to preserve the health of Hungarian people. The head of the emergency department of the Honvéd Hospital recently said that the state of health in Hungary is at the level where Hungarian football is. Mr. Secretary, when will people's health be important? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] When do you spend at least as much on health conservation as on stadiums? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-10-30-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. The interpellation question that Mr Rétvári Bence, State Secretary, has been asked will be answered. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-30-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If you wanted to quote yourself accurately, you asked your previous written question about how much the government spent on communicating various public health programmes, and you got the answer to that. Health conservation itself is obviously a much wider area, whether it requires government intervention or support, as everyday physical education has made young Hungarians, for example, the most mobile young people within the European Union. Obviously, this means a very important health preservation in the long term if every person develops a physical habit on a daily basis. It is also clear that measures taken to reduce smoking in terms of public health prevention, the introduction of a chip tax, which is also used to raise wages for health workers, which is the result of revenue. So there are a lot of other measures. But there are also some, such as various organised screening tests, vaccinations, which also appear as government decisions and additional resources. Three of these new vaccines have been offered free of charge to everyone in the last year, but in the case of screening tests, very important progress has been made in the national extension of colon and rectal screening, in the case of HPV vaccination, among seventh-grade girls in recent years. But it was also important to renovate 77 hospitals, renovate 54 clinics throughout the country, and upgrade 97 rescue stations. In addition, 23 completely new clinics and 30 completely new rescue stations were set up to protect human health. And now the program is underway, which is only the budget item of HUF 40 billion this year. This also contributes to the preservation of health for each person. Previously, such and similar ideas were supported by LMP. You brought up the Swimming World. The remaining facilities of the Swimming World continue to serve health conservation and disease prevention, as swimming schools, parents, children, pensioners, can continue to play sports in these swimming pools and thus preserve their own health. I believe that the number of certified athletes, i.e. the number of athletes with a competitive license, exceeded half a million, 501,000, proves that the government's health conservation and promotion measures were correct, because not only the eating habits are being transformed thanks to the reformmenza, which we have obviously tried to support with extra funding, or the exclusion of different products subject to chips tax from school, precisely the obesity, overweight you quoted, we are trying to prevent, but also, by increasing sports opportunities, increasing competition and sports, we can preserve the health of young people, or in the future as much as possible support such positive processes in adulthood. In 2010, even the LMP considered this important, and today, because of political, short-term interests, it sometimes says something completely different from what was said earlier. Nevertheless, at both the strategic level and at the level of our various development programmes and at the time of drawing up budget lines, there are several programmes in schools and outside schools that aim at health preservation. The numbers you asked contained these communications, but these screening tests, filter buses, eating, exercise and other programs, however, are much more budget-based - the school fruit scheme, the school milk scheme - and they serve as an ever-expanding and growing source to ensure that the generation that is growing up is healthier and that we achieve the goal that the government has set itself to increase the number of years in health. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr. Congressman, Mr. notary, whether you will accept the Secretary of State's reply. Here you go.
u2017-10-30-73	Thank you, Mr. President. The Secretary of State answered many questions, but these were not the ones I asked. The indicators, whether international or domestic, show very well that they do not show the results you are looking for. There is neither a marked improvement in health preservation nor an improvement in the promotion of mass sports. It seems that you are in favour of leading sports and stadium investments; and you have not named the amount of money that you would use, and we have still not received a straight answer. What you have listed, such as hospital renovations, comes from European Union grants in Brussels; this is not a boasting Secretary of State. Don't embellish yourself with someone else's pen, please. How can I accept that answer! ? I don't accept it.
u2017-10-30-74	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. So I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes to 31, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congressman János Bencsik, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interview to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade: å Have our country's export opportunities improved? It's an address. Congressman János Bencsik has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-10-30-75	Dear Secretary of State, The government's measures over the last few years have brought the expected results: the financial balance which has been shaken by the economic policy failures of left-wing governments has been restored and thus the conditions for economic growth are created. In 2013, Hungary was excluded from the excessive deficit procedure that had already been in place for a decade, the general government deficit is still below 3 per cent of GDP, and the government debt-to-GDP ratio is constantly falling. In 2016, it raised sovereign Hungarian sovereign debt to all three categories recommended for large international credit rating investments. So our country regained its sovereignty in the international financial environment. The structural transformation of the tax system, vocational training and public administration, which has improved the competitiveness of Hungary, and economic policy measures have been taken to help Hungarian people, families, business growth and dynamic economic growth. The Hungarian economy is now on a balanced and faster path to growth. To further strengthen, productivity and competitiveness need to be enhanced, accompanied by a gradual rise in wages. Among the government's substantive measures, I think it is important to highlight the six-year wage agreement that was concluded last year. The fine-tuning of the domestic economy requires the conscious use of our current external trade relations, export opportunities and their further development. This applies in particular to the sale of innovative, high added value products and services. The training of domestic labour, increasing the competitiveness of the public and private sectors, increasing the income of Hungarian people, encouraging domestic innovation and developing external relations requires careful coordination. That is why I ask the honourable Secretary of State: how have our country's export opportunities improved? What steps has the government taken or plans to take to further improve the competitiveness of our country? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Minister of State István Ájgyártó responds to the interpellation of the Member. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-30-77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the Hungarian economy has been on a growth path since 2010, thanks to the new approach to economic policy. In the last seven years, it has been proven that, unlike the old economic dogmas, there is no need to choose between growth and new jobs or budgetary discipline. It is possible to improve competitiveness by constantly increasing people's earnings. [[15.30]] The new economic policy is based on a significant tax reduction that encourages entrepreneurs to invest more and create new jobs. The falling tax burden also makes it possible to increase payments on a continuous basis. With the European Union's lowest corporate tax and personal income tax in Hungary, Hungary has one of the most competitive investment environments in Europe. In 2016, with the help of the Hungarian investment agency HIPA, more investors than ever decided to choose Hungary as the location of their investment. For 71 investment projects, a positive decision has been made, resulting in EUR 3.2 billion of foreign capital coming into the country and 17 647 new jobs being created. In the first half of this year, 47 investments in Hungary have already been decided positively, resulting in 8502 new jobs. The multinational companies attracted to Hungary make a major contribution to the country's export performance. The exports of these companies need to be evaluated, given that these companies work with Hungarian employees and, to a large extent, with Hungarian suppliers, i.e. they work for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade considers it particularly important to increase the Hungarian share in exports, which requires state involvement, so the Hungarian National Trade House and Eximbank's cooperation with the help of small and medium-sized enterprises. The task of the trading house is to find suitable export opportunities and export markets for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises in the world, and Eximbank can help Hungarian entrepreneurs to enter the foreign market on good terms. The success of the new external economic strategy is shown by the fact that, according to preliminary data, Hungary's exports reached a record after 2015 and 2016, reaching up to EUR 100 billion. Export brokers, export records mean, on the one hand, that products and services produced in Hungary are marketable, that is, the Hungarian people are doing high quality work, and we can and should be proud of that. On the other hand, export sikers also mean that during foreign trade, more money is coming into the country than it is going out. This revenue goes to Hungarian or Hungarian production companies, which have the opportunity to create new jobs, preserve old ones, raise wages and make improvements. The aim of Hungarian foreign policy is to represent the interests of the Hungarian people; this is also true of the economy, of course. It is in the interests of the Hungarian people to have a predictable, stable job, decent, rising salary and to be able to take a step forward from time to time. We are pleased with the successes so far, but these do not mean that we are going to sit back; we intend to continue to work with these goals in mind. Honourable Congressman, Please accept my answer. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr János Bencsik if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-10-30-79	Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, In October we were able to transfer the development of three productive investors in Tatabánya worth HUF 100 billion, creating thousands of jobs. I personally found that the quality of service is increasing with the establishment of a distribution centre, another medical technology company is producing research reagents for the domestic and European pharmaceutical industry, where graduated biologists and biochemists are employed, while the automotive supplier Bridgestone has expanded its hall to produce innovative products, and has launched a 40 percent wage increase programme to keep a good workforce and attract workers from abroad. So the proposal from the local level to the government is to improve innovation, quality of service [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the way to improve Hungary's position in terms of competitiveness. I accept your reply with thanks. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-80	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, the congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. When do you realize that people in poverty should be helped? Will they finally believe their own polls? It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-10-30-81	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In response to a speech before the agenda, Bence Rétvári accused me of using a very clever trick that I did not compare data from 2010 with today, but earlier. That is not true, nor is it that we see improvement in everything. According to data available on both Eurostat and KSH, 12.3% of the population lived below the poverty threshold in 2010, today this indicator is 14.5 percent. In addition, the poverty gap, i.e. an indicator of the depth of poverty, has increased in all age groups since 2010. For example, seven years ago, the population over 65 was 11 percent, now 15.3 percent. And what would it matter if we considered the hundreds of thousands of people who left this country? Most of them would probably be worse at income indicators if they stayed at home as unemployed. It's not me, it's you, Secretary of State. Experts say that they have never felt such a sharp difference between statistical data changing in the scope of legislation and the real situation. You do tricks, too, when children in need are considered to be in need during the year as a holiday meal. You're playing tricks when the minimum of living is cut off so it doesn't turn out that millions of people are still living under the minimum of living. But if you don't believe me, you may believe a government-wide survey: an opinion survey was prepared at the National University of Public Service as an annex to the report entitled "The Good State." According to this, 63 percent of the Hungarian population does not have enough reserves to maintain their current standard of living for a month if their regular revenues were to disappear. Almost 60 percent of respondents are short of family allowances, and more than 43 percent are less likely to help mothers return to work without these subsidies. The more children in one family, the more critical the parents answered the questions. Similar dissatisfaction can be found in the data series of opinions on the social care system. The amount of aid is 63 percent short. More than 62 percent say that three children can't even be raised in Hungary today from two earnings - the respondents said. More than 73 percent believe that the Hungarian pension system is unfair, and almost so many respondents say that the state does not provide a decent living for its pensioners. Health, job creation, education, social security and economic development have also been criticised. Mr. Secretary. You don't believe yourself anymore? When do you realize that there is a great deal of poverty in Hungary? I'm waiting for your answer, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-30-82	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer to the question will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-30-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Fortunately, in the country where the number of employees is increasing, where taxes are falling and wages are rising, the risk of poverty is also decreasing. [[Intervention from the lines of the MSZP: Which country?]] And this country is Hungary after 2010, because if you look at the number of people employed, it has already increased from 3 million to 709 thousand people in 2010 to 4 million to 444 thousand people. The number of unemployed people has fallen from 481 thousand to 195 thousand, they are most at risk of poverty, and the percentage of unemployment is a joyful reduction from 11.5 percent to 4.2 percent. [[15.40]] At the same time, the average earnings increased, as while in 2010 there was an average salary of 132 thousand forints, this is now 194 thousand forints, not including the family type tax reduction. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Have you seen the difference between regions?]] The minimum wage increase was unprecedented during the socialist period, and obviously contributes to the other wage increases, with 88 percent of the minimum wage, from HUF 73 thousand to HUF 138 thousand, more than double the minimum wage for skilled workers, and from 89 500 to HUF 180 thousand the minimum wage for skilled workers. Average pensions have also increased from 88,000 to 110,000 forints, an increase of 24.3 percent, which means an increase in purchasing value of almost 10 percent. These figures are the basis of the fact, honourable Member, that if more and more people are working, [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Let us talk about poverty, Mr Secretary of State.]] and if more people pay less taxes overall, fewer people are also at risk of poverty. The important methodological issue, Madam President, is that data relating to the previous year are always published for the various statistics in the following year. So if you wanted to quote it correctly, you could have said 14.1 percent, and obviously these changes are also due to the fact that, when many people are employed, there are relatively many people below 60 percent of the median income, because this indicator you quoted shows the percentage of those in similar situations who are below 60 percent of the income. When there are many public workers, obviously this number is growing, when public workers are now able to enter the labour market in the order of hundreds of thousands and have higher salaries, which, of course, increases average salaries, then obviously these numbers are also improving. You failed to mention this from the review of your opinion because it was not a research that was not based on numbers, but on questions that while in 2012 50,5 percent of people expected a positive change or negative change said that their financial situation would deteriorate, in 2016 only 17,6 percent thought that their financial situation would deteriorate. Since 2012, 800,000 people have managed to break out of everyday poverty [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: The report on poverty was also closed!]] They now live in more secure financial conditions. But the most important number is that the number of people living in extreme poverty has also fallen by 315 thousand. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: The minimum of living has also been abolished!]] , precisely because they were able to get a job, or in public employment or normal work, and are not exposed to this level of risk of poverty. That is why the number of people who have credit problems or housing problems has decreased by 709,000, if they read the other annexes, they will also be found. The number of people who have no insurance for an unexpected expense has fallen by more than 2 million, who, for financial reasons, do not have a car, has decreased by more than half a million, who have a one-week holiday a year, the number of those who had no money to prepare or buy meat every two days has fallen by 1.5 million. And who couldn't heat up his apartment, it was nearly 1.5 million people before, now it's around 800,000, and the number of these people has decreased by 600,000. These are joyful successes, let us rejoice together, Congresswoman. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély if she will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2017-10-30-85	I don't accept it, Mr. President. You know, Mr. Secretary, an old lady called me today and told me that after the war, they operated a barbecue bat in Csepel. In the '60s and '70s, a little boy came into this shop every day and asked for greasy bread because he was hungry. Every day this little boy went in, and he got greasy bread every day. Szilárd Németh knows who I'm talking about. You fucking forgot where you came from! [[Noise. Dr. Bence Rétvári: You're in Parliament, Congresswoman.]] You've forgotten what your duty is, what your duty is to the poor and the poor children. You know, you shouldn't forget this greasy bread for anyone, because the one who feeds a starving child has to set an example when he grows up and has to do the same thing. And you know, Mr. Secretary, you've forgotten about these children and these people, and you've forgotten where you're from. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-10-30-86	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Mrs Congresswoman has been furious but has not accepted the answer of the Secretary of State - she has the right. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 103 votes in favour, 33 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Rig, a representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: - Why does the government want to make the private institutions dealing with flask treatments impossible? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Rig has the floor, please.
u2017-10-30-87	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, You claim to be committed to supporting families and childbearing, but your government decision on flask treatments tells us something else. Many barren couples have long hoped for an increase in the number of state aided treatments. Now, the resources so far have doubled, but they cannot be happy, as the additional funding for nearly 6,000 treatments can only be used for treatment by public institutions. In Hungary, several prestigious private institutions are currently performing state-supported treatments, and about 80 percent of barren patients are provided by these private institutions. Yet now it seems that you want to make it impossible for private sector service providers, and you want to do fertility treatments in public hospitals. Yet, many people choose the private sector or pay-per-view because of long waiting lists, which on average is 13 months. We don't know what interests are behind the decisions, but it's not professional, that's for sure. Public institutions do not have enough capacity to carry out 6,000 additional treatments. They do not have the tools, instruments, professionals that other institutions have. I must note here that there are 25 doctors in Hungary who can do such treatments. For example, there is no embryology training in Hungary. Who's gonna do the treatments like this? They provide billions of forints of public money for redeployment, financing the necessary improvements, which would be completely unnecessary if these treatments could be carried out in the private sector, as has been the case. There are also serious concerns about drug support, while patients receive 90% support from public institutions, while private institutions receive 55 percent drug price support. In my opinion, this regulation is highly discriminatory, and any couple who want to have children should be entitled to the same amount of drug support. So I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, why do you choose a support structure that requires significantly more expensive, many billion forints of public money? Why would they want to make these institutions impossible if it is clear that patients prefer to use their services? How could such a discriminatory pharmaceutical support scheme be established and a fairer regulation envisaged? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-30-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to your question, Mr President, will be from Secretary-General Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-30-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It was a very important speech by Jobbik, not because of its content, but because of its direction. This is the first right speech aimed at putting private service providers in a position instead of developing public health. Ferenc Gyurcsány could have said this speech during his prime ministership or after his prime ministership, as the Member argued in favour of business-based health care, he said that the state should order services from private service providers. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: You know that it is not true!]] and do not develop or upgrade public health services. [[Bangóné Borbély Il.dikó: That is not the case, Mr Retvári!]] He said that the state should not spend extra money to improve the quality of the public health system, which is financed by public funds, but to give up the state's ability to provide modern health care to its citizens with its own tools, to give up and forget about this. [[Lajos Rig: I didn't say that!]] and only care that it provides adequate funding for private service providers. This is a kind of credo of privateization of health care, first only in certain sectors and then overall. We have not yet heard such a clear proposal from Jobbik for the privatisation of health, but it is now on a platform in the field of health with Ferenc Gyurcsány. This is the health policy part, and we look at the concrete content, which does not concern the politics of the parties, but the Hungarian families, the Hungarian barren couples. This is indeed a growing problem, because according to research, about one in seven parties are involved, and five times as many babies are born today over the age of 40 as in the '70s, having children or wanting to have children at that age. [[15.50]] This is why the government has decided to expand the possibilities of barren couples, and to support more and more supported interventions, in addition to funding so far. For the first child, the state supports 5 cycles of intervention, for additional children, if the first intervention is successful, it will provide 4-4-4 additional cycles for children to be born. This requires capacity expansion, because we really want to help 6,000 new barren couples. This is why we have sought to help Hungarian couples both in terms of financing individual interventions and in terms of capacity, thus expanding the range of state institutions that intervene in different ways, by helping them by public institutions and clinics, and, in addition, we have made funding more transparent by introducing registration. We give HUF 5 billion to various Budapest and rural institutions to build additional capacity. That is what the Member opposes, because he would like these interventions to take place with private service providers. In Budapest, in Pécs, in Debrecen, in Kaposvár, we strive to build these excess capacities from 5 billion forints closer to barren couples. We believe that the state must primarily help barren couples in an enlarged way in public institutions, and that the private service provider can only be secondary to this. In the case of Congressman, the logic is reversed. For example, we have already talked about the University of Debrecen, which will also receive support for creating overcapacity. He had a contract with a private service provider, it expired, but they are working in the same building that the private service provider has used so far, but I would like to continue with the same doctors and employees in the same university building, only in a clearer and more transparent timetable. As far as aid for pharmaceuticals is concerned, honourable Member, the aid for medicinal products increases from 70 to 90 per cent in publicly funded public institutions, but there is also an increase in pharmaceutical subsidies for private operators, from 25 per cent to 55 per cent, and we hope that this will help as many barren couples as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I respectfully ask Congressman if he accepts the Secretary of State's reply.
u2017-10-30-91	Thank you very much for the floor. Secretary of State, you weren't listening, I was protecting barren couples, but you were delirious about your entire speech. He mentioned Kaposvár. Oh, I'm so glad you mentioned that. They said the supply would be continuous, but there won't be any care there for about a year because of your actions, since there's no instrument, no infrastructure, nothing. And how would you like to expand it? What kind of institution do you want? The antiquated building of John's Hospital, or the basement space of the clinic in Pécs, which is 300 square meters? Is that where you want to do extra capacity? 4,000 out of 6,000 interventions were carried out by private institutions, and there was OEP funding. If you had listened to my speech, 80 percent of patients or barren couples did not choose OEP-funded care, but paid care, and they will continue to choose this, because you will spread them there. Not only would the waiting list be reduced, but it is growing, and in vain the HUF 666 million has been allocated to excess capacity if it is not met [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Neither is the infrastructure. I don't accept your answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-30-92	Thank you very much. As we have heard, Honourable Parliament, Member, did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I respectfully ask whether they will accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes in favour, 32 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, submitted an interview to the Minister of Human Resources:. Why has the results of the application of cancer medicines abroad not been achieved in the case of Hungarian patients? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-10-30-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In recent weeks, there has been a big storm that the National Health Insurance Fund has issued a blind license for active substances that are not fully interchangeable. To this day, no reassuring answers have been made for the whys, but instead there has been a series of fog-scraping and vague rebuttals. So it's time for the government to clear the air and stop beating around the bush, because it's about the lives of the Hungarian people. If the National Health Insurance Fund is right and, under domestic conditions, the medicines have not met their expected health outcomes, then what is the reason for this? Why is it that the results measured in the application abroad have not been achieved in the case of Hungarian patients? We also know from international examples that it is acceptable to see differences up to a certain level, but that medicines cannot even approach the effects they have shown elsewhere is not acceptable. In search of the reasons, it is necessary to talk about the use of the so-called CATO system in 16 oncology centres in Hungary today, which is used to select the dose in a computer-controlled manner and to follow the use of every milligram of medicine. Today, the biggest chemotherapy patient traffic is carried out by St. Laszlo Hospital, but there is no CATO, where the last renovation was made by donations, even though where there is no CATO, even medical personnel preparing for mixtures are not safe, as there is no centralised laboratory where these dangerous substances can be safely handled. These substances are extremely dangerous, so there must be no error in the dosage or the manufacture of the mixture. The cost of these labs and computer systems is minimal compared to how expensive the medicines in question can be, moreover, meaningless to purchase and administer these medicines if there is no safe background. The work of my fellow Member Ákos Hadházy has also made it known that the State Healthcare Supply Centre is conducting irregular applications, with which sometimes twice the actual price they try to obtain tools. With all the money that's been going on, they could have fixed the home chemotherapy treatment a long time ago. However, if these chemotherapy facilities were okay, it would hardly be possible that medicinal products with proven effects in another country would not work at home for some reason. So my question again: why has the results measured in the application abroad not been achieved in the case of Hungarian patients? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-10-30-94	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer to the question expressed by Mrs Rétvári Bence, Secretary of State, will be given. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-30-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The Hungarian budget spends more every year in recent years to cure cancer patients, precisely so that as many people can recover from this very dangerous disease. While this was around 137 billion forints a few years ago, it is now close to 180 billion forints. In recent years, we have expanded the budget framework within the Health Insurance Fund by 30%, from which cancer patients can be cured. Of this, there have obviously been numerous increases in recent years. You got NEAK mixed up with the AEK here. One is obviously the Health Fund Manager and the other is the institution-supporting organisation, and the two are not directly related to cancer healing. I would also like to say that Congressman Hadházy did not find any abuse, but put up the documents of a company on his own website, which he did not reply here at the Parliament's meeting about an hour ago about why he was able to put the internal documents of an American company on his website so quickly. It is 44 active substances and 49 preparations that we can guarantee for tens of thousands of patients at the moment, and there has been a steady increase in the assessment of equity claims in recent years. Last year there were about 10,000 individual requests for equity, and this year there are 12,000 individual requests for equity. Overall, we want more and more patients to have more and more innovative, more and more modern, modern-made medicines at their disposal. That is why NEAK launched this new purchasing system, and the National Health Insurance Fund Manager calculates that about HUF 2.2 billion of new funds will be opened based on the new system. From this new source you can buy medicinal products for more patients, they can cure even more patients on the one hand, and this is the framework from which we can use the latest-developed, most innovative medicines here in Hungary. We hope that as many patients as possible can receive such innovative therapy in Hungary, including those with specific funding, i.e. several million forints each. [[16.00]] This summer, if I remember correctly, started in June with the various sections of the professional college, precisely to be decided by experts on these issues, and the health professionals in the professional colleges supported them in various sections. Those who have started treatment with some medicine, and this results in a positive result, so it seems to improve the patient's condition, will continue with the same medicine, the same cure. In other patients, it is the decision of the doctor, and it is up to the doctor to monitor which medicine he chooses. If a product has a positive effect, the treatment will obviously be continued with it, regardless of the price, and if any other medicine is needed, even if it is more expensive, this new product may be used, but all previous products will be available on the part of the patient later, as all of them will be purchased by NEAK in public procurement. You mentioned the National Institute of Oncology, which is a competitive cancer center, and we also have four regional centers. The organisation of European cancer institutions is considering, at the moment, that the oncological structure of the Member States, when accredited, is an example of accreditation of the Hungarian system. We have done this because, as I said, we have increased resources by 30 percent, and in the near future and in the future, we will all use them to cure cancer patients, and we hope that we have more and more resources to cure people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-30-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2017-10-30-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I do not accept the Secretary of State's reply. Mr. Secretary of State said that the government is spending much more than before. He may be spending more, but he's probably not spending enough. In his comments and in his reply, the Secretary of State pointed out that patients would be given medication; if not very good, then they would get someone else instead. I don't think it's very lucky that they're trying to get the patient, that if one drug isn't effective enough, they'll get the other one. What I have not yet been given an answer to my question; however, we know that the medicines I have asked you about already had sufficient evidence at the time of their authorisation as regards their impact. And if these drugs don't win the bid now, they'll only be used with a special request for fairness. But we do know that this is a separate procedure. At the very least, the government should consider reducing this 30-day evaluation period to eight days.
u2017-10-30-98	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As we have heard, the congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes to 29, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Member István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Departure from health care, where does the shortage of professionals lead? It's an address. Congressman István Tukacs has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-10-30-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Only a flawless, so to speak, complaint-free and asymptomatic health care can afford the luxury of expanding capacities elsewhere, say, in Vietnam. I suppose they'll also send a message to him - if anyone has been searching for Vietnam - that we're with you, Vietnam. But you should be with the Hungarian patient, you should be with the Hungarian doctor, you should be with the Hungarian professional. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This health care is everything but flawless, and the most important symptom of this is emigration, the doctors', the workers'. Those who believe that they are going somewhere else to heal, not just for financial reasons, but for predictable working conditions and good conditions. They leave or are about to leave, because not only can the education system not replace immigrants, but the majority of students there say that they will imagine the practice of their profession abroad later. Dear Secretary of State, There are worrying symptoms of lack of doctors, worrying symptoms of lack of healers. At a doctor's office, when the worker puts the sign on the door that it is closed - and actually closes, because there is no doctor, and he does not want to be a dispatcher, showing the nearest doctor's office - this is a sign that this problem is far from a day-to-day matter, but a matter that requires strategic decisions. Dear Secretary of State, I would also like to remind you that, not only do GPs miss a lot of practice, they get old for understandable reasons, income reasons. And this ageing will mean that after a while there won't be a doctor in these practices. You wish to remedy this as I see from the news now that you are putting more administrative burdens on your neck. They are obliged to collect health data on the patient and their relatives, otherwise in a way of data protection concern. But I could say the same thing about home-school pediatricians, and I could also mention the case of dentists who, Mr. Secretary of State, are in a contract with the Hungarian health and financial institution and have not been able to negotiate with them and make sense of it. In addition, they want to train doctors to replace doctors, saying that they don't need doctors for everything. Well, some things aren't, but some things are. Secretary of State, they refused to negotiate a health minimum. So you think it's okay that more than one third of health spending comes from private pockets, either legally or illegally, or that there are either gratitude money or geographical differences. Why don't you do something, Mr. Secretary? - that's my question.
u2017-10-30-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-30-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Only if the MSZP does something in the field of health care should the Hungarian health care escape! We can remember your latest package of measures, you were a state leader and a representative at that time. They took a month's wages from every medical worker, every nurse, every doctor. 16,000 beds were charged in Hungarian health care and 6,000 workers were laid off. They all hurt, Your Honour. This is what you left behind, and the idea of a visitation fee here in Hungary in relation to health. One of our most important obligations in relation to emigration is to increase the wages of doctors as much as possible. In fact, migration is a trend throughout Central Europe, honourable Member, and you know it; it is a phenomenon in Central Europe, from the Baltic to the Balkans in all countries. But it is important to raise wages and improve working conditions. If you look at how much a young starting worker earned as a nurse in 2010 with a 4-6 year legal relationship, you will earn 148 thousand forints and 293,000 forints next year against 148 thousand forints. In the case of a 19-21-year-old lawyer, this is even higher, with a minimum of HUF 30,000. If you look at how much a specialist earned in 2010 with 7-9 years of law, 251,000 forints and how much he will earn in 2018, he will earn 778 thousand forints instead of 251 thousand forints. And if you look at how much a 19-21-year-old specialist earned in 2010, he will earn 364 thousand forints and 813 thousand forints next year. And I could continue with the paramedics: 626 thousand forints instead of 314 thousand forints; 303,000 forints for the paramedics instead of 173 thousand forints. In the case of pharmacists, it is HUF 621,000 instead of HUF 255 thousand, and in the case of a defender, it is HUF 257 thousand instead of HUF 153 thousand. These are the measures that could have been implemented from additional budgetary resources, for example, from the HUF 82 billion that we can devote to health wage increases this year. [[He replaced the gullible Dezső in the notary seat with Loránt Hegedűs.]] And this has positive benefits, even in the case of what you mentioned, how many people are asking for permission to work abroad. In the last year of your government, in 2010, the number of Hungarian citizens who first requested permission to work abroad was 845 - eight hundred forty-five. That's now down to 398 below 400. The number of Hungarian doctors asking for permission to work abroad has decreased by less than half. And fortunately, in 2015-16, the number of nurses who asked for permission to work abroad began to decrease, and it fell by 15 percent, thank God, in a year. This obviously has an impact on the development of rural hospitals, primary care, specialised care and inpatient care, and on improving working conditions, this government has spent HUF 500 billion in recent years. [[16.10]] It is part of the fact that in 2012-13 there was a 27 per cent general wage increase, followed by a 65.5 per cent nurse and a 207,000 forint medical salary increase in two years, in four years, last year, next year and then. It was part of the residency scholarship programme, which if the former government had launched earlier, it would obviously have been able to keep more young people here, but thousands of young people have already entered this system. It is also important that with various scholarships, guidance programmes, one worth HUF 6 billion and the other HUF 4 billion. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] We are also trying to help thousands of young people study in health training. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr István Tukacs if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2017-10-30-103	Mr President, I would like to predict that I will not accept the answer and I would like to justify it. Secretary of State, it's very welcome when you're describing the number of people who don't want to leave. It would be nice to know how many people came back. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I'll tell you.]] And why they're staying there. Two. I think, Mr Secretary of State, that patients want to heal in 2017, not in 2010 and especially in 2006. Therefore, this boring disk could now be placed on the shelf about what was seven years before their government. [[György Balla: You're ashamed, aren't you?]] We should talk about what's going on. And if you've mentioned that health is not a business, you should mention that to those Fidesz leaders in Szabolcs who parade at the opening of a private clinic. So, Mr Secretary of State, we disagree on many things, but especially on the fact that they want to conceal their own mistakes by pointing to the past. Mr President, I do not accept the answer, thank you very much.
u2017-10-30-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. That is why I am asking this House whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply 108 yes, 34 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Member László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. What has led to the narrowing of the choice of medicines for cancer patients? It's an address. Congressman László György Lukács has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-10-30-105	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Although this debate has just been within the walls of the House, it is worth saying again and again and again and again what has led to the narrowing of the possibilities of choosing medicines for cancer patients in recent years. As we have said and have already referred to it, in recent weeks, not only the press, but also the profession and residents have had a particularly important and interesting debate in public. It was decided that the health insurance company, under a new procedure, which should be called a blank, plans to obtain in the future preparations for the treatment of certain cancers. In the future, some cancer patients will be selected on the basis of price competition to start their treatment, although the decision of the treating physician had previously influenced this choice. The arguments of both sides are understandable, and it may not be fair for the party policy to break a spear with anyone, since on one side there are cost-efficiency arguments of a health insurance company holding a closed register, and on the other hand, the arguments of patients who would like to choose the most successful therapy supported by professional decisions. Yet, we may have to find out responsibly, and explain here before the House's plenum what motivated the government when it introduced this order, which everyone called "the shrinking of therapy." What influenced the government when it decided that next year doctors would not be able to consider the treatment of cancer patients in the new patients - this was also emphasised - but would have to choose the cheapest product in the first round. The answer to this may also be important because the therapies used for cancers may need to be more serious than any other disease, with side effects, so that a good decision on an individual is possible for a safer and more comfortable treatment. In order to justify the decision, it is also necessary to talk about the planned budgetary impact, i.e. how much savings the health insurance company expects from this in the short and long term, as NEAK itself stated in its communication that it is counting on a cost-saving rate. In fact, it is also important to state, and we have not even heard an answer to that, and I ask you, Secretary of State, to answer how many groups of diseases and how many patients a year may be affected by this decision, since you have not yet seen how many cancer patients will be expected to change their therapy. So the most important thing now is to answer the questions that have been raised, Mr Secretary of State. So I ask you, why did the government decide to make these changes? Did the government continue to consult professional and patient organisations before the decision was taken? How many patients may be affected by the introduction of a new blind procedure every year? And how much savings does the government expect on the health insurance side of the decision, and how much health gains does it want to buy elsewhere? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-30-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-30-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As you have mentioned, this question has already been raised once, but I would be happy to repeat the most important items of it. The government does not want to achieve any savings from this measure, as in recent years it has constantly expanded the resources available for this purpose, from 137 billion to 180 billion HUF, the amount from which these different therapies can now be financed. If you look at this year's and next year's budgets, what are the additional items in this year's budget, this year's Health Insurance Fund chapter includes an increase of HUF 5 billion in high-value drug financing. So this year we spend 5 billion forints more on this purpose than last year. If you look at next year's budget for what items are there, there is a surplus of HUF 10 billion twice as large in the budget to ensure the coverage of high-value medicines, tools and procedures. That's an amount of HUF 10 billion. A whole new line of so-called oncogenomic therapies or programs has been added. This means - this is the state-of-the-art method that can apply to cancer healing in Hungary - when therapy is completely unique and individualized. After the genetic examination of the individual patient, the individualised medicine is produced and the individualized medicine can serve the healing of this person. This latest, state-of-the-art technology is also included in next year's budget with a surplus of HUF 500 million. So we've been trying to expand resources here every year, 30 percent more resources are available to cure cancer patients than before. This measure will not limit anything, but will expand the possibilities. On the one hand, it will expand the number of patients to whom this very expensive special procedure can reach. So we can cure more cancer patients; on the other hand, we can take in more of the latest, most innovative procedures here in Hungary, and oncogenomics is the most innovative of all around the world. Overall, as much as we can receive more treatments, medicines, and as much as we can treat more patients in an innovative way, the total value of this procedure is approximately HUF 2.2 billion, according to the current estimate of this procedure. With this much greater amount of money, we can preserve people's health or at least cure cancer patients. Doctors always decide on the whole procedure. You also asked if there was a professional discussion here. I also find your attitude strange, how you call it, in certain circles, as the opinions of the various departments in the health professions were unanimous in supporting this type of new procedure. This could be an advantage for everyone. Doctors only decide on this matter. Those who have already started the study will, of course, continue the study with the same treatments, and obviously the most careful care should be taken to ensure that these medicinal products - now 49 preparations and 44 active substances - can continue to produce positive effects in patients. We hope that this number will rise to 12,000 this year against last year's 10,000 individual requests for equity. This has budget coverage. Treatments previously initiated can therefore be carried out according to the previous order and the new ones, according to the doctor's decision, along the most modern, broad range of treatments possible. Of course, the purchase of all medicines to date will continue, and in any case doctors will decide how to intervene. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.20]]
u2017-10-30-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr László György Lukács if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2017-10-30-109	Thank you very much. We would have been a little closer to accepting the Secretary of State's response if it had been clear how many people would eventually have to expect in the new procedure that their therapy would narrow in this area. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: No one will be narrowed down.]] Mr. Secretary, I see it a little differently than you do. You said that this could deliver more innovative medicines in larger volumes to more people. I think that especially when it comes to individualised cancer therapy, it is not the quantity that is important, but the quality of life of these patients, how they can be cured, and indeed the side effects that have been shown in many cases to be completely different and different, in patients taking treatment resulting from the new blind procedure, will largely result in their life being difficult. However, what I find most sad is that we are debating it here in Parliament, but this debate should have been held in front of people, in addition to mentioning professional organisations. We should have discussed it with them and made it clear that the last year that you were celebrating, drugs received into specific funding [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] Why would they want to run it through blind bidding now? [[L. Simon László: Time has passed 20 seconds ago!]] It would have been important for patients' opinions. I think it's a mistake, I think it's an unfortunate move, and that's why situations like this can develop. Secretary of State, I cannot accept your answer. Thank you very much for your patience. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-30-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 110 votes in favour, 35 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the interpellations. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. Now it's time for immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, Member Sándor Burány, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: . What is the situation? It's an address. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Mr Sándor Burány has the floor. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Bence Rétvári: What's going on in MSZP? Who's the Prime Minister's candidate now?]] Please take the clock back, and Congressman Sándor Burány has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-10-30-111	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I can see from the murmur that my fellow Members have no idea what's going on, but we're about to ask. Mr. Prime Minister, A negative process is taking place in front of our eyes [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Disintegration of MSZP!]] The formation of a two-speed Europe. This danger is very great. In this two-speed Europe there will be an internal core, which will be shaped by the countries that have adopted the euro, which is their national currency. Hungary is in great danger if it is left out of this club and needs peripherality in a two-speed Europe. Knowing that Hungary can fulfil most of the conditions for the introduction of the euro, our position is that it is necessary to join the euro area as soon as possible in order to prevent the security of the country and the fallback. I therefore respectfully ask Prime Minister whether we want to eliminate this threat, what is the position of the Hungarian Government regarding the expected and optimal date for the introduction of the euro. I look forward to your reply.
u2017-10-30-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister. You have the floor.
u2017-10-30-113	Mr President, Dear fellow Member, First of all, let me take a breath, because at last we are faced with the situation in the genre of immediate questions serving the dialogue between the government and the opposition that we can talk about things of substance. So thank you very much for asking. I think it's a very important question. I would like to point out that it is impossible to exhaust the criteria for every demand for a fair response in a 3- to 4-minute conversation. This is a serious matter. I would also like to propose that we discuss this in the framework of the European Integration and European Grand Committee. As far as the substance of your question is concerned, I would separate two dimensions that are well separated from each other. One is the dimension of time and the other is the content dimension of the terms of accession. Obviously, the mystery title of your question is "What's going on? The time dimension may include the knocking on our door of the possible situation you described. I'm not even sure there's a situation like this that you've described, but we can't rule it out at all, so it's worth dealing with. I don't think there's that kind of pressure today. For the time being, let's just say I consider it an intellectual, analytical, and zsunalistic genre of guesswork. There is not a single serious document before the EU that could launch us on the path of a negotiation that would serve the purpose of joining the euro area quickly. So I don't think we're under that kind of pressure, and he doesn't eat this porridge that hot. By the way, in my rejoinder, I would like to continue what I have to say in this tone. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-114	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Sándor Burány. Here you go.
u2017-10-30-115	Mr. Prime Minister, I'd like to draw your attention to a danger. This danger is the vulnerability of the forint. At present, there is no financial crisis, an international process that threatens our national currency. But such a situation can arise regardless of Hungary's intention. In Mediterranean countries, Spain, Greece, there may be a situation that could put the entire Union in a difficult position financially, and we know that the forint has reacted to these situations with serious deterioration in all such situations. That's what we've had some experience with. Therefore, on the other hand, I urge that it would also be welcome for the stability of the forint, for the sake of domestic financial stability, if the conditionality were to be designed in such a way that we would do everything possible to join the euro area as soon as possible. I look forward to your comments on this matter. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-30-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is due to Mr. Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2017-10-30-117	Mr President, you are right that any EU Member State outside the euro area is more vulnerable to a financial crisis than a euro area country. Apparently, Greece contradicts that, but not really, if we think about what we don't have time for right now. Therefore, I think that reducing public debt is a key issue for the stability of the forint. So stabilizing the forint is not only possible by moving quickly into the euro zone, but also by stabilising it as a forint, and the first condition of reducing its vulnerability and vulnerability is due to a high level of public debt, so public debt must be continuously reduced. In fact, I think that when we need to examine when to enter, we need to look at two things. One is that, in the light of experience, a successful accession took place only when the real economy came close to the economic level of the target community - it is called in a nasty word real convergence - and I think we need to pay attention to the high number of pensioners to ensure that wages, but especially pensions, are not lost by entry. So for me, this is not only a question, but also a question of the real value of pensions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-118	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman János Volner, the leader of the Jobbik Group, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What country are you building? It's an address. Mr. János Volner has the floor. Here you go. [[16.30]]
u2017-10-30-119	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, Your leadership of the Party Alliance was given an unprecedented mandate by voters in 2010 and it is worth looking at what it was used for. Immediately at the beginning of the 2010 parliamentary term, a process that led to the deterioration of Hungarian democracy began. You have placed your own people at the head of the State Audit Office, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the National Competition Authority, the Hungarian National Bank, the media authority and practically all state institutions that need independence in principle. In no small part, as a result, and as a result of the expansion of your oligarchs, the situation is that today 600,000 of our compatriots have left the country because their salary was not high enough, but you do not support Jobbik's wage union initiatives. For seven and a half years, you have been managing the educational wallet, and the last time we were forced to face the fact that the results of Hungarian education are deep, we have never been as far behind the PISA surveys as we are now, once again, after seven and a half years of Fidesz governance. In health care, we can tell ourselves that we have the most cancers, that the relatives of patients often take the medicines, bandages for patients, because the hospital simply doesn't have the resources to do that. From thousands of billion forints of EU funds, we have not been able to present a single internationally competitive Hungarian group of companies in recent years. Not a single one, Prime Minister. It is also important to see that, on the other hand, the lack of political performance is being counterbalanced by an amazing lie factory by your government at 70 pieces. We've won more in the last few months against the media empire you're funding, Prime Minister. What do you think of that? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-30-120	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2017-10-30-121	I need to speak faster than justified to answer such a simple question as this. What country are you building? We are building a Hungarian Hungary. The goal is that everyone who can and wants to work can work. We want it to be worth it. In seven years, 740,000 new jobs have been created in Hungary. Our finances are fine. For five years, we've had a budget deficit of less than 3 percent. Government debt is constantly falling and economic growth will be above 4 percent this year. Real wages increased by 12 percent this year, we raised the minimum wage by 15 percent and the minimum wage by 25 percent. In addition, the law enforcement workers, teachers, nearly 100,000 health workers get a raise. We have implemented the reduction of the rent and started building Paks II in order to ensure its long-term sustainability. We have preserved the real value of pensions, and for the first time this year we can pay a pension premium to Hungarian pensioners. In summary, I can say that we are building a country that stands up for the nation as a whole. Everyone can take at least one step forward every year. We are building a country that stands on its own feet and a country that can defend the country's external borders without your help, which we cannot count on. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-122	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. János Volner has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-10-30-123	Prime Minister, the future of this country will not be decided on the Soros posters; the future of this country is currently decided in the classrooms by teachers who have been the weakest performers in recent years, thanks to the curricula you have developed and the educational system you have led. The country's future is decided in the classrooms, Prime Minister. And once again, what happened to Hungarian education in this case will also have an impact on the added value of Hungary in the economy later, because the Hungarian workforce is not qualified enough, and the performance of education is deep. I have listed a number of specifics, and I would ask you, Prime Minister, to be kind to them for one minute. What I see now is that if necessary, you will send bald people to prevent a referendum attempt, and today we have been voted off by our committee's motion. For the record, this went on even during the socialists' time, when you could have investigated the Tochik scandal. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-30-124	Thank you very much. One-minute rejoinder, Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2017-10-30-125	I do not want to hurt anyone, especially a fellow Member, but, honourable Member, I have nothing to say but that you say seven-and-a-half things to us here. I don't know what you're asking, honestly. I feel that you are not feeling well in your skin, and I understand that, and obviously there is a reason for that, but that alone is not enough reason for a question. On the other hand, if you've walked into the teachers with your feet in pairs, let me refuse to do so and say that we ask ourselves to talk about Hungarian teachers in such a voice. Perhaps not everything in our schools is perfect, and our performance may be fluctuating, and there may even be some deterioration - we hope only temporarily - but this does not give you or your party the right to talk about Hungarian teachers in this way. They're working, they're trying to do their best, and they're trying to do their best, and it's our job to help them do their job. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-126	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck and Members of the LMP, Ákos Hadházy, wish to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Why does the government resign from some of the people? It's an address. On behalf of the Members asking the immediate question, Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet will address the question. Here you go.
u2017-10-30-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, Today, 2 million 600 thousand people are receiving pensions or pension benefits in Hungary, 1.2 million of them receive pensions below 100 thousand forints, and about 70,000 receive pensions under 50 thousand forints, which is very small. Today the minimum pension in Hungary is 28 500 HUF. You have promised that the inflation-following pension will be provided. This was not achieved at the minimum pension. The minimum pension is still 28 500 forints. I don't know if Prime Minister knows what 28 500 forints is enough for. Almost nothing. Many pensioners live alone, their children go abroad to work, their grandchildren are born abroad. They're in a lot of trouble! The HUF 28 500 is not enough to pay the rent. This is the winter season; we know that a lot of old people got cold last year, died in the winter. After the rent, pensioners have to pay 10-20-30 thousand forints for the cost of the medicine, and there is no money left for a healthy meal. This spring I presented a bill to raise the minimum pension from HUF 28 500 to HUF 50,000. Unfortunately, the majority of the ruling parties refused to vote, and they didn't even blur their eyes out that they refused to leave the 28 500 forints. Now I've submitted this bill again. I ask Prime Minister whether he is willing to vote to raise the minimum pension of HUF 28 500 to HUF 50,000.
u2017-10-30-128	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be presented by Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2017-10-30-129	I am pleased that the second issue on the table today is worth talking about in a longer and deeper way. I suggest that if this genre is not suitable - and it is not - then perhaps we should do it another time. This would also give me the opportunity to help you separate pension and minimum pension. The fact is that 28 500 forints is a calculation basis. The government's promise is that we will help all pensioners, and we will even guarantee all pensioners that they will retain the value of their pension, we have respected those who receive the smallest pension. There is no person in Hungary who has not had a pension since the beginning of our government that has increased at least as much as inflation in Hungary. The fact that minimum pensions as a calculation basis, which is not only used in the calculation of pensions, but also in a number of other benefits, can be talked about whether it is sensible, whether it is worth calling it that at all, whether it is meaningful to use this number, whether the system should not be rethinked. We are happy to be of service to you. Let us think about how to determine the minimum pension rate. But I would like to repeat once again what the government has undertaken, what the Christian Democrats and the Fidesz have undertaken, that every pensioner in Hungary can expect that, when this government is in place, the value of its pension will not decrease, and even if there is one way, it will rise - this has happened in recent years, this will also happen this year, and this will happen next year - well, we have fulfilled this promise and our commitment, and we will continue to fulfill it in the future. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-130	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. Here you go.
u2017-10-30-131	Prime Minister! We are aware that this is a calculation basis, but it is not just a calculation basis, because some tens of thousands of people receive a pension of HUF 28 500, which is very little, and it is impossible to make a living. Soon, I think that the majority of the government will be able to testify, that it will soon be here again before the Parliament, and that it will be possible to vote on it. It is a shame that there are people in Hungary today who receive a pension under 100 euros and under 30 thousand forints. You can't make a living out of this, you have to change that.
u2017-10-30-132	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2017-10-30-133	I'd like to repeat the offer I just made. If we think that we want to choose another method to regulate the minimum rate of pensions, then we are ready for this professional discussion. If there is such a proposal, we would be happy to consider it. In Hungary, the average pension is 110,000 HUF/month at the moment. [[16.40]] As far as the overall dimension is concerned, I can say that we are also happy to be at your disposal in such a professional meeting because the government is thinking in a multigenerational Hungary. There are many of us who are personally involved, for many of us still have parents, even some of us who still have grandparents. and we believe it is right for our parents and grandparents to receive the recognition, both in a moral and in a material sense, of what they have done with their work and of what they have raised us, otherwise they deserve. So I would like to reassure you that the government is thinking in a multigenerational Hungary. In a country where every generation finds their own home. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-30-134	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gyula Budai, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the President of the National Bank of Hungary an immediate question: can the MNB investigate the financial activity between Altus and the Human Operator? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he will accept Vice-President Martin the Great as a reply. [[For signal:]] Congressman says he'll take it. Congressman Gyula Budai has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-10-30-135	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, As is known, the company of Ferenc Gyurcsány, Altus Portfolio Kft. In March and August 2016, Csaba Czeglédy granted a high-value loan on two occasions to Human Operator Zrt., managed by Csaba Czeglédy. Ferenc Gyurcsány claims that these loans, which amounted to 78 and 90 million forints, could be considered a friendly loan, and Csaba Czeglédy wished to pay students who had not received their wages until today. However, these contracts contain clauses such as interest on late payment, personal security, immediate incassor, which is not typical of a friendly loan, but assumes a business-like lending activity. The commercialization of money loans is a financial activity and the financial activity is linked to a statutory licence in Hungary today. It is therefore necessary to examine whether the company of Ferenc Gyurcsány, Altus Portfolio Kft., had such permission to lend or to grant a financial loan. If Altus Portfolio Kft. it does not have such a licence, it is suspected that the offence was committed, i.e. the offence of unauthorized financial activity. Mr. Vice President, On this basis, I would like to know whether the financial supervision of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank can be examined by Altus Portfolio Kft. and Human Operator Ltd. What kind of financial activity has taken place between now and now. Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-30-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Vice President Martin the Great. Here you go.
u2017-10-30-137	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Members, The answer to the question is yes, the MNB can and will examine the financial activity between Altus and Human Operator. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You have the order.]] Congressman! In addition to the prudential and consumer protection supervision of financial institutions, the supervisory activities of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank extend to the screening of the activities of unauthorized financial service providers and persons in order to ensure the stability of financial markets, safe operation and protection of customers. On 25 October 2017, Magyar Nemzeti Bank received the submission on the subject, and on this basis the central bank is currently reviewing by collecting data whether a market surveillance investigation is necessary. A business loan may be provided only with the MNB's relevant business authorisation to provide the 2013 CCXXXVIII on credit institutions and financial undertakings. Law, the Hpt. 3. Paragraph 3 of this Article. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Good, it's written down for you.]] Whether a loan is considered to be a business is not merely a function of interest, but also of other factors. The realisation of all the conceptual elements of business is very important. All of this affects the circumstances of the existence of commercialism. Therefore, for an activity, the MNB will in all cases individually examine the existing circumstances, including here, and whether the activity is considered to be a financial service, such as a loan or a business. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-30-138	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congressman Gyula Budai. Here you go.
u2017-10-30-139	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, It is quite clear that the Czeglédy case is a party financing scandal between MSZP and DK. Csaba Czeglédy had nothing to do but raise party money for the campaign by MSZP and DK. It is quite clear that the loans received from Ferenc Gyurcsány did not go to the students, because the students have not yet been paid. I think that if this is confirmed, the damage caused to students and other workers must be paid to the MSZP and DK. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-30-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Vice President. Here you go.
u2017-10-30-141	Thank you very much. The Hungarian National Bank will investigate this matter with its usual determination [[An uproar in the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] which raises suspicion of unauthorised financial services. This investigation will be conducted by the MNB and will, as usual, act very hard against any irregularities. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-30-142	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Bárándy, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:, Relatives buddies and others 5? It's an address. Mr President has asked Vice-President Márton Nagy to reply in response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the responding [[György Balla: Are you asking about Czeglédy?]] Or Mr. President will ask for the answer in person. Here you go.
u2017-10-30-143	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Vice President, I'd like to wait for Mr. Matolcsy, but I'd like to ask: can we ask for such orders, too, so that we can use them to investigate what, Mr. Vice President? Thank you.
u2017-10-30-144	Congressman! Now I have to warn you, because you can only answer yes or no in this genre. However, I would like to inform you and this House that Mr President will have to answer you at the next hour of questioning. Dear Parliament, Member László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: what about cancer patients after 1 November? How are they gonna get access to their meds? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member if he accepts the Secretary of State for the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Congressman indicates his acceptance of Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Congressman László Cook has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-10-30-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, We've heard a lot about cancer healing today, and about the modifications or changes you've introduced in cancer healing, which would mean that you always have to choose the cheaper medicine, save on it. We tried to help this today, at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, we tabled an amendment that would have taken the money from propaganda, the public media, and used it to cure cancer patients. Without discussion, though, but your fellow Members voted against it. It also shows that cancer patients, like the profession and everyone else, must be satisfied with what you have said here many times today that there is nothing to worry about, there is nothing to see here, and you think everything is fine - but it is not. The thing is, there's a two-year contract that you probably didn't pay attention to. A two-year long-term contract with suppliers expires, where 40 out of 50 indicators of raw materials, 40 active substances are currently on the market, which, from 1 November, we do not know how cancer patients will get because you issued a public procurement late. A two-year contract failed to pay attention to the expiry date. Public procurement was announced on 17 October, there was no result on 24 October, then the only thing you could see on the Public Procurement Decision Committee's website was that your public procurement was not passed again at the Public Procurement Decision Committee. Once again, a large organization as large as yours failed to publish a normal public procurement when there are no fewer than 300 thousand Hungarian cancer patients at stake. There's a review right now, there's an appeal, and patients don't know how they're gonna get medicine. Secretary of State, how are you going to do that? 'Cause you can't guarantee that until now, apparently. Thank you for your attention. [[16.50]]
u2017-10-30-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-30-147	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. The subject is serious, but I must say, Mr honourable Member, that for a number of reasons, I think it would be very dangerous for the Hungarian people if the Socialist Party returned to government. On the one hand, we remember when, at the time of their own administration, you took a month's wage from either the healers of cancer patients or everyone else with a pen stroke when that order came from Brussels. We remember that 600 billion forints were withdrawn from health care during their government. We remember the visitation fee, the hospital allowance. We remember the 16,000 beds that were cancelled, and we remember the 6,000 medical workers who were laid off. And they have not regained their competence in the field of health, because you cannot distinguish between the public procurements of NEAK, the National Health Insurance Fund Manager and the State Health Service Center, the ÁEEC. An appeal is in the public procurement of the EEK; this has already been discussed before the agenda. At NEAK, the first phase was completed on 19 October, and last week the procedure was carried out that was necessary for the registration of applicants. So this is another procedure, honourable Member, not that procedure. Obviously, this is quite complex in opposition benches, but I also want to say what is obviously important, and what can really reassure cancer patients is that the government has provided 30 percent more resources to cure cancer patients in recent years, not like you, who have withdrawn 600 billion from health care, but we have raised 30 percent more, from 137 billion to 180 billion. We will continue to get all the medications that were used to treat patients. Anyone who is in the process of being treated will still have it. Decisions are made in this area by doctors, health professionals, and we have discussed the procedure with all the competent departments of the professional college. We do not intend to achieve any kind of savings, but we want them to receive as many patients as possible and as innovative as possible. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] According to the momentary state of the procedure, we can provide them with 2.2 billion HUF more patients and new methods and healing opportunities. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-30-148	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman László Szakács for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2017-10-30-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I'm not going to explain it to you, but listen carefully. There's the blind, there's after January 1st, and there's between November 1st and December 31st, and then ask your trainer to do it like this, and then you'll know what you're talking about. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You don't know what you're talking about!]] Yeah, I'm talking about NEAK, too. Yeah, that was a two-year contract, which, for some reason, you didn't write on October 19th, right, October 17th. Otherwise, they would have had time. If they had already discussed this with the professional colleges in June - I listened to the answers they gave - they would have had time to do this in the summer instead of having to do it now with a well-educated contract, and then somehow they could get suppliers to bring the medicines with active substances that had to be given to cancer patients. But no, because you either didn't see the interest or the money in it, or you're just lazy and you didn't do your job. You don't know that. You've got the wrong coach. Think about it, and do your job so people can get the drugs. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-10-30-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-30-151	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, There's no need to argue about facts. Everyone can look at it and make it clear that the MSZP is not fully aware of what the process is going on here. All previous suppliers have also indicated their willingness to participate, both 44 active substances and 49 preparations will be open to all patients, and even against what happened last year that we were able to accept about 10,000 individual requests for fairness and have been evaluated, this year it is expected to be 12,000 applications. So Hungary can offer health to so many patients in the event of a very serious cancer. And besides, next year's budget, which you have not supported, we can spend HUF 10 billion more on the purchase of high-value medicines; and we can also start new methods of healing from HUF 500 million to genes and individuals in Hungary to cure people with cancer, which is the state-of-the-art form of therapy. This HUF 2.2 billion, I think, is one of those extras. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] which will be felt by cancer patients, and we will be able to offer healing therapy to as many people as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-30-152	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question about his pen, the government about Flórian? It's an address. Congressman Adam Mirkóczki has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-10-30-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, This weekend there was an important event around the House of Lungo Drom, namely their 25th birthday, which is certainly a feat that in a normal rule of law such scandals and crimes would not be possible for such an organization, at least under the leadership of this one. However, the fact that Minister Zoltán Balog did not sting the praises regarding Flórian Farkas' identity raises many questions. Your minister, and apparently a member of the government on behalf of the government, claimed that he was finally a credible, scandal-free leader. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] You can say hello to Florian Wolf. He also claimed, therefore, that it is not a scandal for your government if, under the responsibility of someone, nearly HUF 1.5 billion is lost within the framework of the programme "Bridge to the World of Work." According to Zoltán Balog, it is no scandal that there is still a great deal of criminal proceedings against Flórian Farkas, including fraud, fiscal fraud and forgery. I think that if Zoltán Balog then declares that he is such a clean-handed leader, this alone is more than a scandal. Do you not think, Prime Minister, that it is at least worrying and scandalous that a strategic agreement and various cooperation agreements will be concluded with such an organisation, with such a past, and that we should now talk about Flórian Farkas, whom I would like to stress, not in person, but in his role and activity, and I am criticising and attacking him, as a model and an example to be followed as the person responsible for integration. So I ask Prime Minister whether he does not consider this to be a concern. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-30-154	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2017-10-30-155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is, I'm supposed to answer, but I don't feel like it. [[Rumble in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Then do it unkindly.]] Which is why, in order to answer each other's questions here, certain minimum rules must be complied with. I must say that my fellow Member has made a false statement, and he should know that only on the basis of the rules governing Parliament, so I cannot say that he was wrong. The situation is more serious, since in order to be able to open an investigation against any Member of Parliament and MEP Flórian Farkas, the immunity right must first be suspended. That didn't happen. So you wrongfully accused a fellow Member. I suggest you apologize to him. [[Dr. István Apáti: Can't keep your eyes dry! Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-30-156	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki. Here.
u2017-10-30-157	Mr. Prime Minister, It is possible to argue whether the concern is that Flórian Farkas' immunity has not yet been suspended. [[Noise, interruptions.]] or that you stand up for what he has done in his activities; and, of course, there is a procedure against his organisations and the number of programmes he supervises. Your answer, or rather not your answer to me, is much more illuminating and strengthening as a fact, in which I think we can agree that this social problem, which stems from the centuries-old problems of Gypsy-Hungarian coexistence, is indeed the only possible way towards normalization. However, the way you behave underlines that your aim is, in fact, not to create integration and thus to create a normal life and social image, but to capitalise on political capital resulting from the lack of integration, which means that these votes can be converted from serious forints to votes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-30-158	Thank you, Congressman. I respectfully ask Prime Minister if he wishes to exercise the right of a one-minute rejoinder. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2017-10-30-159	Mr. President. I must repeat: I do not think it is fair, fair, unfair, it is not fair to accuse a fellow Member of a criminal prosecution against him when it is not true. [[17.00]] My fellow Member, Mr Mirkóczki, had the opportunity to apologize. Believe me, Mr Mirkóczki, there is no shame in apologizing to a gypsy man. Next time, try it. As far as legality is concerned, I can advise Lungo Drom as well as Jobbik: obey the law, and then there will be no harm. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-160	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Member Imre Vejkey, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question [[Dr. László Kács: I wouldn't be in Retvári's shoes right now!]] How does the government support children in need during school holidays? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or waits for the Minister's presence to be answered.
u2017-10-30-161	I accept, Mr. President, thank you.
u2017-10-30-162	You'll take it, thank you very much. Congressman Imre Vejkey has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-10-30-163	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, With the economic strengthening of the country, we have finally had the opportunity to strengthen the social care system in recent years and to increase the significant support of Hungarian families in Europe as well. Today began the fall break for about 1.5 million primary and secondary school children. From January 2016, municipalities have to ensure that disadvantaged and cumulative disadvantaged children are fed at all school breaks. To do this, the government allocated HUF 6.67 billion to half a million children in need this year, while in 2009 the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government spent only one third of this, 2.4 billion forints. The current government has almost doubled if it has not tripled the amount of children's one-day holiday meals, so that this autumn's educational break will not leave children in need without proper care. Free catering for holidays begins on October 30, i.e. today. That is why I am asking the honourable Secretary of State how the government supports children in need. What are the experiences of holiday free meals so far? How does increasing the amount spent on the catering system help the situation of families? I look forward to the Secretary of State's honour's reply. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-164	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-30-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, If, during the previous government, before 2010, he had asked what the experiences of the autumn holiday meal were, he would have been told that there was no such experience, because there was no autumn holiday meal, and he would have received the same answer for spring break and winter break, because it was the Fidesz-KDNP government that introduced the possibility of having a free meal during the mid-year breaks. If we look around Europe, there are schools, there are educational systems where even children's meals couldn't be solved, let alone their free meals, and let alone in this proportion - because when I look at the smallest children, kindergartens and daycares, they get eight or nine out of ten children to eat free of charge. The state no longer provides these benefits as a social benefit, but as a family support: it provides them not only to the poorest, but to everyone except the richest 10-20 percent of parents. As you mentioned, the item of the holiday meal has increased by more than three times, it is HUF 6.7 billion provided by the budget this year, and we are carrying out this task through the municipalities, but the total child food budget has also increased by nearly three times, from HUF 29 billion to HUF 79 billion next year, and this year it will be HUF 74 billion, which we provide for this. By the fall break, 2240 settlements made their request for support, and they applied for this budget support for 109 102 children; it will, of course, be shown only afterwards in the closing accounting laws, how many children are actually used for this. It can be said that there is not a single municipality or any parent who would receive such a response that because of lack of resources there is no money to feed that municipality or that child. In Hungary, we have established a children's feeding system [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] which, due to a lack of resources, does not refuse the application of any of the municipalities or any of the children. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-166	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Imre Vejkey has the word for rejoinder. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-10-30-167	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your reply. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] of which it is clear that the Fidesz-KDNP federal system [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Thanks to its efforts, the family support system is constantly expanding, which means that Hungary is now spending twice the OECD average on family support in proportion to GDP. The number of children's welfare centers has increased fourfold, so there is such an institution in every district today. Child protection warning systems provide timely signs of child endangerment, neglect, and possibly underfeeding, and the supply system can provide immediate assistance. Fidesz-KDNP government since 2010 from 30 billion to 2017 [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] About HUF 80 billion has been raised to support children's meals. Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply and please continue to follow this path. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. I thank you for your cooperation, I am sorry, Mr Secretary, for the chairing of Mr. István Jakab. Here you go. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2017-10-30-169	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Fidesz-KDNP government has not only increased budget support to multiples, but has also increased the number of breaks, with free meals for children during breaks. We increased the number of right holders, increased the number of days available during the summer break from 54 to 70 days, and in addition, during the breaks we raised the daily item, in Hungarian the amount of support for a day's meal: from HUF 370 to HUF 570, which is a 50 percent increase in order for these children to receive quality food during breaks. Obviously, these are the most needy people who find it difficult to get fruit, dairy products, varied, healthy foods at home, which is why we have also raised the funding amounts here. It is also important that everyone who has the right to apply for it and apply for it after their child. That is why the state is ahead of this: we have informed every notary and every child welfare service. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] the notaries and the child welfare service, in writing and orally, seek out the families concerned and draw their attention to the need for this support for their children. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-170	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél, Ákos Hadházy and Erzsébet Schmuck, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title "Government and Reality." Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2017-10-30-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, In 2008, you said that it was a refugee government if someone could not organise people's health care within a state framework. You recently admitted that the Hungarian state is unable to provide health care for ten million Hungarians and expressed joy at the fact that private health will take over from public health. However, I think that Hungarian people cannot pay twice. Let's see how much Hungarian people pay for health care! Most in Europe, it is certain, taxes and contributions. If you earn average wages, you pay a quarter of a million a year. [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] If you earn a minimum wage, it's more than a month's wages on an annual basis. All Hungarian people pay this in taxes and contributions to health care. Now, in return, the Hungarian people rightly expect to receive timely and high-quality care, once the money is put there. Now, they're gonna pay you there again, because most people who can, they're gonna go to private health. Otherwise, as your fellow Members say, there are hospitals that have become death factories, and if the mask is not used, this is said by fidesz MEPs, then the Hungarian people will die. Now, we live in a country, Prime Minister, but it is not certain that you can perceive it from your ivory tower, where two thirds of Hungarian people have no savings, in Hungarian: there is nothing to pay the masked doctor. [[17.10]] From now on, I'm asking you, Prime Minister, how can you look yourself in the eye when you've created a country in which... [[Noise, clarity in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Biology is not your strong suit!]] Don't laugh. Don't laugh. I'm with people who don't fucking laugh. Don't laugh, fellow Members. [[Rumble noise, the president's ringing.]] How can you look in the mirror, Prime Minister, when you have practically paid for health care and also paid for education in this country? How can you account for all this?
u2017-10-30-172	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2017-10-30-173	The truth is, I would like to remain within the courtesy that all the Members can expect of you, but this will not be easy. The thing is, your party's name is "Maybe Other is Politics." I have listened to you, and I have to say that this is already a scam, and now that Ron Werbert has been signed, and it is quite obvious that he is saying false things here in front of the House, I must say that there will be no other policy. As far as health is concerned, I must say to you that I respectfully ask that when we talk about health care, we do not allow a mood around what we have to say to you, as if our doctors and nurses were working in death factories, because they are working for life and doing everything they can. Now it's almost tolerated - it's not good, it's only acceptable - for wages, but surely they're working to cure people who get there by doing work of a higher value than their salary. Therefore, if we are talking about health care, the first should always be the voice of respect that we express to doctors and nurses. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] What the Hungarian government can do is confirm that every citizen of Hungary has the right, and as long as we are on the government, it will not only have the right, but also the opportunity to have a chance, within the framework of the state, to be cured if he is sick. We don't support any kind of privacy. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-174	Thank you, Prime Minister. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return. Here you go.
u2017-10-30-175	Mr. Prime Minister, Facts are stubborn things. He is here, Pátyon said:. The Hungarian State would not be able to meet the health needs of 10 million Hungarians if there were no family-run businesses who would not take responsibility for the people who live there, taking responsibility for this task from the Hungarian state. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Only the Hungarian people pay for these services. I don't have time to think about the Alliance of Young Democrats, but if I look at you, I don't see that either. Added... [[Noise, interruptions in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Let's continue with the facts: 18 hours in the E.R., more and more hospital waiting lists, cataracts 5 months, Szolnok pediatrics half-year waiting time, outpatient surgery in the afternoon no, colon cancer prevention screening 4 months waiting, mammography screening 3-4-5 months waiting. Prime Minister, what do you say? Please don't serialize, don't werber, don't do anything, answer me. How can you account for that?
u2017-10-30-176	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2017-10-30-177	We all want to be able to say that the world started with us. But that's not true. So in answer to your question, I can say that there are, without a doubt, waiting lists in Hungary today for a number of disease groups that should be shorter. There's no debate between us. We can also agree, in this House, that all parties should be included in this agreement, that efforts must be made to reduce these waiting lists. But after life didn't start with us, it didn't even start with our government, so if you want to be fair, you'll compare the length of the previous waiting lists with the current conditions. And if you had done that, it wouldn't have been unfair what you said. If you had done that to tell us how long the waiting list was in 2010 in these disease groups and where we are now, we would have had a clear picture. You didn't say that because you would see that waiting lists were shortened in all groups of diseases. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-178	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Balázs Győrffy, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: It's an address. Minister György Czerván has appointed Minister of State to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2017-10-30-179	Yes, thank you, I accept.
u2017-10-30-180	Mr Balázs Győrffy has the floor.
u2017-10-30-181	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, As many of us know, the European Commission is planning the period of the common agricultural policy after 2020 and, obviously, as a farmer, there are very many of us following up on this work and, in principle, we are pleased to see the announcements that indicate that simplification has been the aim of the European Commission, which makes us a little concerned because it has always been promised the same and has always become more and more complicated. At the same time, it is not this, which has shaken the mood most recently, based on a form of leaked material, but the fact that the European Commission wants to incorporate a completely new mandatory element into the common agricultural policy, which is... [[Noise, several Members are leaving the Chamber. The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-10-30-182	My fellow Members, please remain in your seats, if possible. And if anyone leaves, please leave quietly. I'll count the time.
u2017-10-30-183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, basically, the Hungarian rural society is excited about the form in which the material that we are all looking for will be released at the end of November, and whether it will actually contain elements that represent the financing of migration costs from the compulsory common agricultural policy. This is nothing new, as it has already been possible to voluntarily cover migration costs from certain sources of the common agricultural policy, but it is unacceptable for Hungary to introduce this on a compulsory basis. The National Chamber of Agricultural Economy, as a member of Copa-Cogeca in Hungary, which is the largest representative umbrella body of the European economy, has expressed its position at all forums and at all working groups' meetings that we do not agree with this. We respect the fact that the common agricultural policy must keep pace with regard to environmental changes, where appropriate environmental protection, climate protection, labour force retention and social objectives, but such a new objective is not acceptable to Hungary, and the budget is not expected to increase. I respectfully ask Mr Secretary of State what the Government intends to do to ensure that this completely absurd proposal cannot be implemented by the European Commission. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State György Czerván.
u2017-10-30-185	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, After cohesion, the agricultural policy is the second most important Community policy, which allows Hungary to pay more than EUR 12 billion of Community funds between 2014 and 20, contributing to the stability of domestic producers' incomes, increasing liquidity, and also plays an important role in rural employment. Accordingly, the Hungarian government is doing everything in its power to give agricultural money to farmers. Indeed, the European Commission has already proposed that Member States should spend part of their resources under the common agricultural policy to address social and demographic changes, in particular crisis situations caused by migration and the reception of refugees. Thanks to our persistent and consistent agricultural diplomacy efforts, this proposal on migration has not been included in the final agreement. At the same time, we have received once again information that the European Commission has not permanently committed itself to supporting migration in this way. They plan to hide behind the support of agricultural seasonal work to promote immigrants' resettlement in the EU. [[17.20]] In several forums, the government has already made it clear that the agricultural policy objectives set out in the EU Treaties are still valid, so we are strongly opposed to changing them or adding new goals, in particular migration. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-186	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Balázs Győrffy in return.
u2017-10-30-187	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. We are afraid that the overall budget of the common agricultural policy will, in good times, remain at a level because of the Brexit, but we fear that it will also decrease, and we think that this will reduce the room for manoeuvre in the implementation of our development plans so far, which could have a very significant impact from a competitive point of view. We cannot agree that, in addition to this possible withdrawal of funds, additional tasks will be included in the common agricultural policy, which will reduce the original margin of manoeuvre. Dear Secretary of State, I hereby propose and ask the alliance so that Hungarian farmers, in cooperation with the government, can raise their voices so that this completely insane idea does not come into law and does not expect the European Commission of Hungary, Hungarian farmers, to remedy a problem that has occurred for reasons beyond our control, from the money that is due to us. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[It's a rare applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-30-188	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr György Czerván State Secretary is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2017-10-30-189	Honourable Congressman, On behalf of the government, I thank you for your supporting words and for your assistance through Copa-Cogeca. It is important to draw the attention of European decision-makers that, after the Russian embargo, they cannot make the second mistake of having farmers pay the price of an insufficiently thought-out EU decision. The Hungarian Government continues to insist on its position on migration that the management of the migration crisis should be promoted, not on the territory of the European Union, but on the basis of EU farmers, but at their starting point, and therefore all such proposals, if formally formulated, will be rejected in the strongest possible way. Our basic objective is to ensure that after 2020, agricultural farmers continue to receive the farm money, so we do not consider it necessary to radically reform the system. To do this, we have been able to obtain a number of allies from the Central European or Baltic Member States, with whom our negotiations on reconciliation of interests are ongoing. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-190	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Teleki, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. The Fidesz and Lungo Drom are co-actors in stealing the Roma's chances! It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the State Secretary's reply or ask the Minister himself for it. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-30-191	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Give back the honour of the Gypsy in Hungary! On Saturday, you once again took away the possibility of Roma in Hungary to have equal opportunities in Hungary and to integrate. I am saying all this because in Szolnok the event that your Minister Zoltán Balog and Flórian Farkas celebrated in Szolnok upset the Gypsy in Hungary, because they said that there had never been such an honest Roma leader in Hungary as Flórian Farkas. If the standard of the integrity of Flórian Farkas is measured, the Roma in Hungary have a very high deficit, because there are many more honest Roma people in Hungary today than Flórian Farkas. And I think that your minister is also responsible for preventing the eruptions of Gypsy in Hungary, because from here it is measured that Gypsy in Hungary can accomplish this much when it has a source and they cannot really use that money because it is always stolen. And the Fidesz lets the Gypsies in Hungary do that. So you give the gypsy the authority to spend any support, operation or program on whatever you want. It is your responsibility that Gypsyism in Hungary is branded at the level at which you can see it now. The assessment of Gypsyism in Hungary has never been so low as today, and this is due to the cooperation that Lungo Drom and Fidesz have shown every day, and does not want to prevent criminal offences such as the Bridge from happening in the case of work or the National Roma Municipality. Zoltán Balog did it - I thanked him here in Parliament - for reclaiming HUF 1.6 billion from the national government because it was not spent for the purposes for which the applicants intended it. Then, half a year later, Zoltán Balog praises Florian Wolf. How's that? - I'd like to ask you, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-30-192	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-30-193	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Is there a larger organisation in Hungary than Lungo Drom, which represents Gypsyism? Are there more members, more mobilization, more representativeness, more local contacts? Lungo Drom is the largest Gypsy representative organisation in Hungary. It's been working for over a quarter of a century, so it wasn't created yesterday, it's here, it's been here for decades, it's the biggest. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. István Tiba.]] The biggest interest organisation for the government is obviously the most important partner, since the interest of the Gypsies can be represented with the greatest weight, the greatest strength, and the greatest legitimacy. That is why it is important for the government, and that is why the representative of the government, the minister responsible for catching up and national affairs, was present at this ceremony, because the government must be there at the meeting of the largest organization, because the interests of the gypsy cannot be represented by others more widely than they do. If it were the case that the government did not cooperate only with the largest organization, only with the fifth largest and the sixth largest, and small miniature organisations, the government would rightly be affected by the accusation of not cooperating with the largest, why not cooperate with the majority of which has the largest membership, the widest delegation and legitimacy of which is the largest in the internal minority self-government elections. I think it is entirely justified that the government be present at such events, a meeting of more than a quarter-century organizations. We will obviously support everyone who fights for the rise of Gypsy, fights for better coexistence between Hungarians and Gypsies, and we will most often keep in touch with those who represent the most Roma people in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-194	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2017-10-30-195	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Secretary of State, you didn't calm me down. He didn't calm me down because it looks like they're building a vote factory through Lungo Drom. If there were any other organisation, I think they would be supported, just so that as many people can vote for Fidesz. So from now on, you have admitted that you support Lungo Drom only because it is one of the largest organizations, not because it is effective, not because it helps to integrate Gypsyism. Therefore, you are responsible for the fact that small organisations, which otherwise function very well and operate legitimately and legally, are not supported by resources such as Lungo Drom. Where is an organization supported by 1.6 billion or billions, supported by a headquarters, and much more, and covered up their affairs? There is no such organization, and this is why no other NGO can grow up in the system of Gypsy in Hungary because you do not allow it to grow great among the Roma. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So it is your responsibility to maintain this lawlessness [[The president's ringing again.]] Or they're gonna charge Florian Wolf. Thank you.
u2017-10-30-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-30-197	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In your rejoinder, you couldn't say anything bigger than Lungo Drom. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] So you agree that this is the largest organization you can't disprove. And I don't think there's any reason why a government wouldn't build a relationship with the largest Gypsy interest organisation and try to make decisions with it that could improve the lives of all Hungarians. I think this is important, however, that in recent years the number of young people of Roma origin and higher education has more than doubled. It is also important that unemployment in Hungary was around 12 percent, now 4.1 percent, and the number of people at risk of poverty decreased to a very large extent, and 385,000 people were able to emerge from extreme poverty. Among them were gypsy and not gypsy people alike. [[17 .30]] I believe that it is in our common interest that such positive trends continue, and that is why we must cooperate with everyone with whom we can, but obviously it is worth working with the largest organisation in the most intensive way. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-30-198	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, It's 5:29 p.m., and we've reached the end of the immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, We now have a motion to negotiate a series of requests for inclusion. The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide the LIII of 1994 on judicial enforcement. T/16750 amending Act T/16750 on the need to renew the eviction moratorium. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. [[Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, First I give the floor to the author, within a five-minute time frame. Here comes Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck.
u2017-10-30-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, KDNP representatives submitted a bill to extend the eviction moratorium. I must draw both the KDNP representatives and the government's attention that it is not a solution to push the moratorium from 1 March to 30 April. This is all about the government putting this sensitive issue after the elections. As early as the summer, LMP presented a bill that concerns many difficult borrowers in Hungary, which we believe will not be delayed. It is sad that in the summer, when we initiated the resolution of the case in the framework of an extraordinary parliamentary session, where this was supported by the opposition, you did not attend the meeting, and now you are submitting a proposal to extend the moratorium. This issue is a matter over parties, in which it would be a duty for the government to provide real help instead of pushing out the moratorium for campaign purposes after the election, and then sweeping the problem under the carpet again. Our proposal is not only to suspend evictions for the winter period, but also to stop such acts until a foreign currency authentic law is adopted that takes into account the outcome of the decision-making procedures that are born at the Court of Justice of the European Union. When we submitted our original proposal, we said that this law should be born after a decision has been taken in the preliminary ruling procedure in the Hungarian case, but we are now adding that it is necessary to take into account the aspects that have recently been adopted in the Romanian case - C-186/16 - and in which the obligation to provide information on foreign exchange credit has been examined. The Hungarian case - C-51/17 - is about exchange rate risk, so the law must also respond to this. What we still need to look at is how the Hungarian courts deal with the risk of exchange rates. The Court has not yet examined the advantage of the position of the two parties. It is incomprehensible why the government does not support the proposal when there is conflicting cooperation in this matter. In addition, the LMP has a bill in the Parliament, which would greatly help the foreign exchange credit process, in which we also look forward to the government's support. I would ask my fellow Members to support our proposal's request for inclusion.
u2017-10-30-200	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2017-10-30-201	Mr President, Dear House, It is clear that we support the initiative that lies before us. Jobbik has repeatedly pointed out that in the context of the eviction moratorium, the government would act in a fair manner if it extended at least until the elections, but I agree to extend this extension until the problem is resolved. We can say that KDNP may have been an even greater derailment of things in foreign exchange-credit cases than Fidesz, since first of all it ruined the construction of your private bankruptcy, which could have helped thousands of our fellow countrymen on fair terms, and now it wants to cosmeticize the eviction moratorium in a way that provides apparent help. I myself am going to vote in favour of this KDNP proposal, but it cannot be overlooked that it will encourage executives to do an activity that will be exhausted by turning their activities up until the day of publication of the moratorium, and then going forward after the elections, when Fidesz-KDNP will not have to face the amazing calvary of the victims in such a direct way. So, in a way, it's an absolutely cowardly proposal for a solution. On the other hand, the package before us shows much greater courage. Since Jobbik's proposal is also in sync with this, it is clearly worthy not only of the negotiation, but also of the transfer and transfer of the system. The question is whether there will be enough courage in the representatives of the Fidesz-KNDP to debate this problem at all. If you can't face the victims, at least you have the guts to face us. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-10-30-202	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, Fidesz Group.
u2017-10-30-203	Thank you very much for the floor. I think that we should not only think about those who have been damaged by foreign currency credit, we agree that we should also think about them, but we also need to think about those who want to take out credit, and as collateral, they can offer nothing but residential property, whether their own or the property owned directly by the family, primarily by the parents. If we were to accept the proposal of the LMP, then these people would practically not be able to take credit, so I would ask the Members of the Honourable Parliament to vote on the proposal of Péter Harrach, István Hollik and László Szászfalvi, which will extend the eviction moratorium from 15 November to 30 April - I would add that the weather conditions basically started my fellow Members to submit the bill - this is what they vote for, and we can improve the needs of both circles. Lending on residential property does not cease, and it is not necessary to put people on the street. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-10-30-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the factions if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. I would like to ask the Member, on behalf of the Group of the LMP, whether she wishes to respond to what was said in the debate as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] You have the floor.
u2017-10-30-205	Thank you very much. In short, unfortunately, we know that the problem of foreign exchange lenders has not been solved, they are in a very serious situation. I thank my fellow Members for their contributions and thank them for their support.
u2017-10-30-206	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on certain amendments to the legislation needed to increase national competitiveness and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/17571. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-10-30-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform this House that the Legislative Committee is the House Rules 46. T/17571 on certain amendments to the laws necessary to increase national competitiveness. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be submitted by the committee in accordance with Article 46 of the Rules of Procedure. By 24 votes in favour, 7 against and 2 abstentions. There was no substantive debate at the committee meeting. The draft amending proposal contains a proposal for an amendment to the Committee on Economic Affairs closing a detailed debate, which contains largely codification and technical clarifications. From a content point of view, it should be pointed out that the scope of activities to be carried out by registered electricians will be specified in the Government Decree and that, in the case of water utility upgrades, no fee may be charged for exits, demand processing or other processes. [[17.40]] The main aim of the proposal is to simplify and speed up public utility licensing. On the basis of the proposal, the amendments will reduce the electricity connection process by about 90 days, and the gas connection process will be shorter by about 30 days. It should be pointed out that the legislative package was preceded by extensive professional consultation. The legislative changes were also known and supported by the Energy Office, the Chamber of Engineers and the relevant distributors. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-30-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Nándor Csepreghy, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate or at a later stage. [[Nándor Csepreghy: Later.]] He wishes to speak at a later stage, Mr Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. We now have speeches from Members. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy, Deputy Minister, who will tell you the closing word.
u2017-10-30-209	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the floor. There is now a number of legislative proposals before the House, which are intended to reduce red tape and contribute to the financial commitment of families in connection with the competitiveness of the economy and the various investments of families. If we ask how the state can be a supporter of competitiveness, one obvious answer is that by simplifying the rules. This proposal to simplify public utility connections is now the third in the line and essentially triggers the regulation that came into force from 1 July 2017, which essentially minimized the fee for public utility connections for a family house. The proposal currently under discussion and supported by all the parliamentary groups in the various Commission and plenary debates is essentially designed to amend four laws, which will achieve significant results in two areas, both in the electricity connection process and in the process of connecting to the gas grid. While the former reduces the time required for connection by 90 days, the latter by 30 days and the date of connection to the natural gas network. The amendments made in the Legislative Committee were only technical and linguistic changes, neither at the plenary stage of the debate nor at the committee stage there were any substantive amendments to the content. Therefore, allow me, on behalf of the Government, to thank you for your support and ask you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-30-210	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain legislation on migration and the discussion of the summary amendment follow up. The government referral is T/17565. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-10-30-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee has discussed T/17565 on the amendment of certain migration laws. The Committee has submitted 24 amendments and a summary report to that effect, with no abstentions, against seven yes and no abstentions. The summarised amendment includes, on the one hand, amendments to the Defence and Police Committee, which are set out in 67/2009 on the drafting of legislation. They contain corrections and legislative clarification as defined in the IRM Regulation. Furthermore, the Legislative Committee includes its own proposal that the Government is authorised to restrict the submission of a residence permit for applicants of specified nationality for income or work purposes, if justified on the basis of Hungary's national security interests. On 1 January 2018, the General Administrative Regulation Act will enter into force, which does not cover alien and asylum procedures due to their specific nature, and it is therefore appropriate to supplement certain sectoral laws with the general procedural rules. In addition, the proposal for the transposition of a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council aims at making the provisions for researchers, students, pupils, trainees and volunteers from third countries more transparent. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us is in line with the ongoing public administration reform and helps to combat illegal migration effectively. Please support the motion. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-30-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Károly Kontra, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to speak now. [[Károly Kontra: No.]] or at a later stage of the debate. [[Károly Kontrat: Later.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Defence and Police Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State if he would like to speak. [[Károly Kontra: Yes.]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-30-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your support for the bill so far, and I ask the House with great respect to support it in tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-30-214	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's report on the amendment of certain laws relating to the change of the name of the Governmental Officials Arbitration Committee follows a debate. The government referral is T/17783. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Minister of State, whether he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[Nándor Csepreghy: Yes.]] Yes, you have the floor, Mr Secretary, and I would like to inform you that your speech [[Nándor Csepreghy: Enough!]] and you have a total time frame of ten minutes to say the closing word. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-30-215	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Today is our lucky day, because we are all discussing bill proposals that have been supported by both the opposition and the ruling parties in Parliament. This is also the current technical amendment, which essentially exchanges only one text. So I do not want to make any meaningful comments in this respect, but I would just like to thank Members for the work they have done so far, and I would ask that this unbroken support be reflected in tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-30-216	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. Representatives will now take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. I am asking my fellow Members if they have applied for a speech. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. The Secretary of State has already made his point, indicating that he no longer wants to react. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of Act C of 2003 on electronic communications and the final amendment proposal follow up. T/17562 submitted by Members László Kucsák and György Balla, Fidesz. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. [[17.50]] Dear Parliament, First, the opinion of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Kucsák, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-10-30-217	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee is the House Rules 46. T/17562 on the amendment of the Law on Electronic Communications Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. pursuant to Rule 26 of the Rules of Procedure, adopted by 26 votes in favour, no votes against, with 6 abstentions. The summarised amendment includes the Committee's proposal for an amendment closing a detailed debate and other proposals made by the Committee. The Act on Electronic Communications also allows the subscriber to terminate immediately where the channel allocation does not change or expand substantially, i.e. the channels offered do not change substantially, only in the order of them or if new channels are added to the package in addition to the existing offer. This is not in line with the legislative will. It has therefore been included in the amending proposal that, if only the order of channels changes, so that the content of the service remains unchanged or the number of channels is increased while the previous ones are retained, it is not appropriate to provide for the possibility of immediate termination within 45 days. As explained above, the proposed standard text places a change in the channel order and changes that do not reduce the channel composition and expansion offered to date in an exception section. The purpose of the bill concerned is to be able to conclude a two-year fixed-term subscriber contract in addition to the purchase of the device for preferential subscription packages for the distribution of the Internet. It is also well-known to my fellow Members that, on the basis of the proposals made by the citizens participating in the national consultation on the Internet, the government has decided to introduce the Digital Prosperity + Basic Package. The purpose of this.. Digital well-being + basic package is to provide broadband internet subscription under reduced conditions to those who otherwise cannot afford it at a standard price. According to the government's intention, the digital well-being and basic package will facilitate the use of the Internet and increase the level of digital competence in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill concerned is in the interests of consumers, and I would like to ask for your support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am now going to ask the rapporteur's representative if he wishes to speak as rapporteur. Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Dear Parliament, I will ask if you wish to speak on behalf of the Government. [[For signal:]] No, we'll do it on the next agenda. Dear Parliament, I declare that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. Representatives will now take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. I ask my fellow Members if they wish to take this opportunity. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I'm going to ask Mr. Congressman as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] It does not wish to respond to what has been said in the debate. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's report on the date of the submission of the Hungarian sign language follows in a series of discussions. H/177885 submitted by representatives of Gergely Tapolczai, Zsolt Nyitrai Fidesz. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Gergely Tapolczai, if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, said that he would like to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Ákos Kara, Secretary of State, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to speak now. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the designated People's Welfare Committee has not presented a rapporteur. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. I wonder if one of my fellow Members would like to take this opportunity. Yes, I give the floor to Mr Sebestyén, Member of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-10-30-219	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. As we have already said on behalf of our group in the general debate, of course we support the proposal for a resolution, and we will vote for it at tomorrow's meeting. I would also like to say so much, which I believe was also said here in the general debate, that, recognising the things that have happened in relation to sign language over the past period, I would like to emphasise once again that we should consider our earlier proposal to ensure that, in order to obtain a medical degree, a medical degree or a social degree, language examination obligations can be fulfilled in the form of sign language, and that this obligation can be replaced by a sign language examination to obtain these degrees. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-30-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Mr Gergely Tapolczai if he wishes to take the floor. Yes, I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-30-221	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank you for your support for this proposal. I see that this Parliamentary resolution proposal will receive unanimous support tomorrow. I would like to respond to the comments of my fellow Member, Mr Sebestyén Vigó. This point has already been raised in the general debate, and I would like to respond now, just as I agree with the proposal itself, but it is not possible from a professional point of view, and recognition of the Hungarian sign language does not automatically constitute an accredited language examination. The process of doing so is now taking an accredited language exam. If this is done, we can go back to this so that a sign language exam can be taken within a certain profession, or that a sounding language exam can be replaced, because that is probably what you are thinking. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-30-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Following the 19th of 1998 on criminal proceedings Discussion of the Commission's reports on the proposed amendment to the law on criminal matters and the laws governing cooperation in the EU and international criminal matters and the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/17572. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee. [[18.00]]
u2017-10-30-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 26 October 2017, the Legislative Committee discussed the 19th of 1998 on criminal proceedings. Act T/17572 on the amendment of certain criminal laws and of the laws governing cooperation in international criminal matters. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were adopted by the Committee by 26 votes to seven, with no abstentions. During the Committee's meeting, members discussed the amendments tabled by the Judicial Committee on the background paper, which contain clarification of language positioning. Let me summarize what the proposal is about. Some of the amendments were justified by the adoption of a new civil procedure. In the context of indemnification and civil claims, the entry into force of civil procedure affects criminal proceedings in a fundamental way, and the regulation of criminal proceedings must therefore be adapted to this legal terminology - six months for the two laws, the new Be. And the new Pp. the period between its entry into force - and, on the other hand, it is still necessary to amend the old criminal law in force, as the new Be. Until its entry into force, we must also help law enforcement and the work of the judiciary with certain legislative amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, The objective of the proposal is to clarify the issues of interpretation, to update the rules of procedure, which we believe will make the work of the law-abiding people more efficient. Please support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-10-30-224	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, whether he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate or later. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Later.]] Mr State Secretary points out that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to take this opportunity. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to speak. [[Dr. Pál Völner: No, thank you.]] Mr. Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2017 LXXVIII on lawyering. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws and other judicial laws relating to the entry into force of law and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/17563. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-10-30-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee has negotiated the 2017 LXXVIII on legal activity in accordance with the house rules. T/17563 amending certain laws relating to the entry into force of law and other laws relating to judicial matters Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were adopted by 24 votes to four, with two abstentions. The summarised amendment contains a proposal for an amendment to the Judicial Committee closing a detailed debate, which contains largely codification and technical clarifications. In terms of content, it should be pointed out that the 2017 LXXVIII on law enforcement activities. In order to supplement the transitional provisions of Act No. 5 of 1 October 2017 in order to ensure that, as a result of the procedures for registering members and legal advisers of Chambers, which began on 1 October 2017, the actual start of operations with effect from 1 January 2018, the oath of chamber lawyers and the vow of legal rapporteurs, as well as the issue, production and issue of facial certificates which are essential for the performance of the activity, have been carried out. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, the proposal contains codification and technical clarifications, essentially for the application of the Law on Lawyers. In view of this, I ask that you support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening.
u2017-10-30-226	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the authors at this stage of the debate. [[Dr. Pál Völner: No, thank you.]] Mr Secretary of State points out that he does not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now possible to have speeches by Members. I ask my fellow Members if they wish to take this opportunity. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. Dear Parliament, Since there was no debate, there will be no response to the debate. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the proposed amendment to the legislation on the harmonisation of insurance and cash-flow legislation and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow. The government referral is T/17566. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. [[For signal:]] I would, but since the Member is not here, this speech will not take place. A minority opinion would be presented, which would be done by Mr Gergely Bárándy, but the speaker is not present, and we will also overlook that. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr András Tállai, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-30-227	Mr President, Dear Parliament, A number of amendments have been submitted to the bill concerning the financial sector, most of which contain codification and other clarification provisions in order to ensure consistency of the bill with internal and other legislation, both in terms of terminology and in terms of content. Allow me to present to you the most important amendments below. One of the most important amendments to the bill concerns the mandatory motor vehicle liability insurance law, in line with the objectives of reducing insecurity under the relevant EU Directive. The reason for the amendment is that the new mandatory car liability insurance contracts concluded since 2013 are no longer calendar years but are cross-annual. In view of the fact that the fee due for contracts is no longer in bulk on a calendar quarter but may fall on each day of the year, the quarterly query will result in an unjustified multi-monthly accumulation of uncovered charges for citizens whose fee is due at the beginning of the period. It also represents an unjustified accumulation of labour burdens for notaries, who can only be informed in large packages of vehicles to be withdrawn from the market. It is therefore appropriate to ask at least monthly for periods corresponding to the continuous payment of insurance contracts and to send notifications to notaries for uninsured vehicles. Dear Parliament, As the law on sanctions for administrative infringements has entered into force on 1 January 2019, it is necessary to establish appropriate legislative coherence in this respect. It should also be noted that the law governing the provision of investment services has also been supplemented. [[18.10]] This was essential in order to better comply with EU rules and to facilitate adaptation to EU rules. Dear House, Thank you for your cooperation, and I would like to ask you, together with the amendments supported by the Government, to adopt the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-30-228	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that you have a 7-minute time frame if you wish to make use of this option. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. There will now be speeches by Members within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of two-minute comments during these. I give the floor to Member László Salacz, Fidesz Group.
u2017-10-30-229	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee is the House Rules 46. T/17566 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the harmonisation of the law on insurance and payment matters. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Parliament's resolution on certain house rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, 9 votes against. The Legislative Committee has accepted and supplemented the Commission's amendment closing the detailed debate with its codification clarifications, bringing the proposal into line with, inter alia, the central bank law, the consumer protection law, the insurance activity law and the law on credit institutions and financial undertakings. The main part of the bill includes the transposition of two directives. One is the Insurance Sales Directive and the other is the Payment Directive. This bill is therefore intended to ensure full compliance with the relevant EU legislation. The motion contains a number of measures that improve consumer awareness and thus effectively serve to enforce their rights. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill will result in increased consumer protection, and I would therefore like to ask for your support. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-30-230	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask my fellow Members if they still wish to make use of the opportunity to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The Secretary of State indicated that since he presented the Government's position as rapporteur and that there was no debate, he did not wish to make a final statement. The debate is closed. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2007 General Sales Tax CXXVII. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. T/17786 submitted by Gergely Tapolczai and Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz, representatives. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Gergely Tapolczai, as rapporteur, if he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] Mr President, Mr President, you indicate that you do not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the Government's Secretary of State if he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] Mr State Secretary points out that he does not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Dear Parliament, It is now possible for the Members to speak. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I will ask Mr Gergely Tapolczai if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, pointed out that he did not wish to speak, since there was no debate, so that he could not react as a last resort. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We are moving at a very intense pace with the discussion of the legislative proposals. I'm forced to take a two-minute technical break at most, and Secretary of State Bence Rétvári is on his way, arriving in a few minutes. Please respectfully, we do our work according to the regulations of the house. As soon as Secretary of State enters the room, we'll be right back. I ask for your understanding. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári is arriving in the Chamber. A round of applause from Jobbik's ranks.]] Dear Parliament, We will continue our work as promised. The Commission's reports on the tax exemption for grants and scholarships submitted by each State and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. T/177787 submitted by representatives of Bence Rétvári, István Hollik, István KDNP and Gábor Zombor, Ildikó Bene, József Kovács and Ágnes Molnár, Fidesz. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-10-30-231	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/17787 on 26 October 2017. The draft bill on tax exemptions for grants and scholarships submitted by each State was submitted by the Committee with 33 votes in favour, with a unanimous decision, and a summary report. In addition to the technical corrections, the summarised amendment proposed by Tamás László, which was also approved by the Economic Committee, aims to further expand the scope of the exemption. In view of this, it provides for a tax exemption for the benefits for elderly artists who have achieved significant success in various areas of culture, as well as for the results of the national scientific student conference. It should also be mentioned that the proposal qualifies as exempt a one-off benefit for individuals receiving pensions and certain other benefits under a government decree. The bill sets out measures to achieve the goals that the government has given priority. These are education, family formation, and childbearing. To this end, grants and scholarships granted by certain States will become exempt once the proposal has been adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to accept the tax reduction and tax cancellation proposal, which primarily concerns students, students and family members, as it serves good and eligible objectives. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-30-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Bence Rétvári as rapporteur if he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. Yes, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2017-10-30-233	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, As I said in the original expo, the task of a good state is to encourage as many jobs as possible in the economy, reduce bureaucracy and reduce taxes. This bill is getting better and better in this respect, as there is an increasing number of tax cuts and even tax cancellations. From 1 January this year, the government reduced the VAT on the main foods to 5%, and the VAT on milk, poultry and eggs had already been reduced. The tax reduction will continue in 18, from 18 to 5 per cent of the VAT on the Internet. The fish's VAT is also reduced to 5%. So these taxes are falling year after year. This bill fits into this series, along with the government's tax reduction proposals, another important series. The purpose of this motion is to exempt certain state grants and scholarships. This bill can help in particular in the field of education, in the area of family formation, in the area of childbearing and in the area of improving the health workforce. As a result of the Commission's negotiations on the bill, the scope of tax-free state benefits can be further extended, where we will therefore abolish all taxes. An allowance with a statutory fee granted by the Minister for Culture to an individual may become tax-free. The award can be donated by the Minister for Culture from 2018, so from 1 January next year to artists with a significant artistic career in the cultural sector under the conditions laid down by law. [[18.20]] The fee shall be paid on a monthly basis for the entire duration of a calendar year. The fee may also be awarded posthumous, in which case the recipient of the fee and the fee may be entitled to receive the fee, if the deceased's spouse is not entitled to receive the fee, and in the absence of it, the descendant of the minister may be entitled to receive the fee. Here too, therefore, the proposal now contains a full exemption. The Act on the Hungarian Academy of Arts also provides for a tax exemption if we accept this bill, which is provided by the Hungarian Academy of Arts in the form of regular monthly remuneration, in the spirit of respect for outstanding artistic achievements and artistic careers, to those 65 years of age who have received the artistic awards listed in the Act, thus: the Kossuth Prize winners, worthy artists, excellent artists, the Babe wreath of the Republic of Hungary or the Master of Folk Art. Third, the tax exemption now extends to the OTDK, as my fellow Member said, the reward for the result achieved at the National Scientific Student Conference, in which students who have created the winning course work can benefit from studying in Hungarian and cross-border higher education institutions. Last but not least, in order to settle the tax liability of Erzsébet's vouchers or pension premium to pensioners at the end of the year, it is also necessary to exempt one-off benefits for individuals receiving pensions or certain other benefits from a government decree. I think this is extremely topical at the moment, because Hungary is finally in a position to pay a pension premium for the first time in its history. In view of all this, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support this bill for tax abolition and tax exemption in the course of the debate and in the vote tomorrow, in an added way. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-234	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform the Secretary of State, as rapporteur, that you will have six minutes and 40 seconds to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-10-30-235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In my brief speech, I would like to assure the Parliament that T/1778/7. the Government supports the proposal for an amendment submitted to the Parliament by the Legislative Committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-236	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his speech. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Dear Parliament, It is now possible for Members to speak if they wish to do so, my fellow Members. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to speak as a closing point. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: There's nothing to respond to.]] Thank you very much. Since there was no debate, it is understandable that the closing word will not be heard either. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal for the employment of beneficiaries of temporary mining benefits through a pensioner cooperative in the public interest follow up. T/17558 submitted by the representatives János Bencsik, Lajos Kósa, Zsolt Nyitrai and Sándor Hadházy, Fidesz. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-10-30-237	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform this House that the Legislative Committee is the House Rules 46. T/17558 on the amendment of certain laws for the purpose of employment through a pensioner's cooperative in the public interest receiving a temporary mining allowance. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were adopted by 23 votes in favour with 8 abstentions. The draft amending proposal contains a proposal for an amendment to the Economic Committee closing a detailed debate, which contains only codification and technical clarification. This bill also aims to extend the preferential employment opportunities provided by the law on pensioners' cooperatives of general interest to beneficiaries of temporary mining benefits. Citizens who have spent at least 25 years working underground or have completed an equivalent shift shall receive a temporary mining allowance. Citizens under the age of retirement age receiving a temporary mining allowance in our country represent a reliable, highly experienced reserve of labour for the national economy in the order of thousands. The bill complements the cooperative law governing pensioners' cooperatives in the public interest, as well as the related sectoral laws with beneficiaries of temporary mining benefits, thus creating the possibility for them to benefit from preferential employment. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-10-30-238	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm going to ask if there's anyone who wants to speak on behalf of the author. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary if he wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-10-30-239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to respond to some of the opinions expressed in the debate. The government continues to believe that the pensioner cooperative in the public interest represents a new instrument or a regulatory model that promotes employment. In my view, this form of employment is useful both for the economy and for pensioners. We hope that the practice will also confirm the achievement of the objective of the pensioner cooperative of general interest. It should be noted that persons receiving an old-age pension may not be employed solely as members of the pensioners' cooperative of general interest. After considering all the circumstances, everyone can choose the most suitable form of employment for them. I would like to point out that the cooperative law contains only rules on special forms of cooperatives. The general provisions concerning the cooperative as a form of organisation are laid down in the Civil Code. This means that the rules of the Civil Code shall apply to all matters for which the cooperative law does not contain a specific rule. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to dissipate the misconception that a member of the pensioner's cooperative will be able to pay for his old-age pension for the damage he has caused. According to the rules of the Civil Code, the obligation of a member of the cooperative covers the provision of its financial contribution to the cooperative and the personal contribution provided for in the statutes. In the event of damage caused to a third party by a member involved in the performance of an external service, the pensioner cooperative and the recipient of the external service shall be jointly and severally liable. It is also a joint and several liability of pensioners' cooperatives and the recipient of the service for the damage caused to members involved in the performance of the external service. Therefore, in the event of damage to the pensioner member, the pensioner cooperative as a legal person and the recipient of the service are jointly and severally liable. The pensioner member shall be obliged only to make the financial contribution, and the member shall have no underlying responsibility. The pensioner is therefore not obliged to comply with the obligations of the cooperative, so it cannot be the case that the pensioner is entitled to his pension, to his or her property. [[18.30]] I trust I have been able to resolve the doubts expressed in some comments during the debate on the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill complements the scope of the eligibility of those participating in a pensioner's cooperative governed by the cooperative law with beneficiaries of a temporary mining allowance and amends the related sectoral laws in this context. The purpose of the bill is therefore to provide for the extension of the benefit for those participating in pensioners' cooperatives of general interest to beneficiaries of a temporary mining allowance. Employment through a pensioner's cooperative thus indirectly contributes to ensuring that the knowledge, professional experience and experience gained by members are not wasted but used. For the national economy, these citizens represent a reliable, experienced workforce reserve of thousands. We believe that the inclusion of beneficiaries of temporary mining benefits in employment through the pensioner's cooperative can reduce labour shortages in the labour market, replace the skills and expertise that are lacking in practice. With this opportunity, the government also wishes to recognise the decades-long work of miners in difficult circumstances. Dear Parliament, According to the government, the bill acts fairly with the beneficiaries of the mining allowance, so it is fully in line with the government's efforts. I would like to thank in advance all the opposition parties who started from the content of the bill and in their comments indicated that they would support the adoption of the bill with their votes. I ask that all of you support the government-supported bill by voting in favour of pressing that particular button. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-240	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. Dear Parliament, It is now possible for the Members to speak. I'm asking if anyone wants to live with that. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Mr Sebestyén, Member of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-10-30-241	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to point out that we will support this proposal in tomorrow's vote, but I would like to make some critical remarks. The first is that if the majority of Fidesz-KDNPs had not made the law that abolished the early retirement pension in the previous cycle in a way that was not unfairly and unfairly justified, this would not be necessary. Instead of using lawn mower principles, the system of early retirement pensions should have been circumscribed, and then, among other things, those working in the mine who have spent several years underground would not have been in this unfair position to receive mining benefits, but could have spent their earned retirement years before the retirement age. The other part, which is why we need to discuss this amendment, is the law on pensioners' cooperatives. I do not agree with Mr Secretary of State, and every pensioner does not have the opportunity to work alongside his pension. There are sectors in the public sector where you have to decide whether to receive a pension or pay a job. This is why the law on pensioners' cooperatives had to be established, among other things. It would have been much easier if pensioners in these sectors had been left with the opportunity to work alongside a pension, and then they would not have had to, or it would really be a question of free discretion and free choice if they had taken up employment through a pensioner's cooperative or otherwise a normal worker. Again, I would like to warn and remind the Parliament that this provision, which excluded public sector workers from working alongside pensions and the simultaneous receipt of the two benefits, has caused difficulties and anomalies in certain sectors. I have to talk about my own house, the anomalies in the social sector, and from one moment to the next, many times the institutional leaders had to decide which solution to choose. Unfortunately, they were in a deplorable situation at the time, and the social sector workers are still in a situation where their pension was higher than their senior management salary, so their choice was clear, and it was clear that they had decided to retire. Thus, in many cases, a new leader, or an institution with the same work experience, with no management experience, has been trained. Later, this caused difficulties in its operation. To sum up, we do not agree with the law to be amended itself, the basic law, the law on pensioners' cooperatives, because we should not have excluded certain sectors from work in the first place, nor do we agree with the principle of abolishing early retirement pensions. In the mine, underground workers should have been touched before the old-age pension, the retirement age, but we agree with this amendment, if we can help the thousands of people who are currently receiving mining benefits. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare applause from the opposition side.]]
u2017-10-30-242	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Vigh, Fidesz Group.
u2017-10-30-243	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I tell Jobbik what the Secretary of State said, Peter Cseresnyés, that this is another opportunity. We spoke earlier in the debate, and János Bencsik said that the miners had contacted him and asked for the opportunity. So it's not that we're trying to put something on someone. What the Secretary of State has just said, and it was very important that the economy is spinning, we need a lot of workers. Thank God today 4.4 million people work, but we see that the economy has even greater absorption power. This is a good thing that the Hungarian economy is very spinning as a result of the work of the Hungarian people. Our economic growth, the Prime Minister said this afternoon, is above 4 per cent, next year we expect economic growth above 5 per cent. I refer again to the Secretary of State, Péter Cseresnyés, who said that these pensioners have great experience. It would be a huge mistake not to take advantage of this routine, experience, for which - a lot of pensioners who can and want to work - we create opportunities. My request to my fellow opposition Members is to support these opportunities, because this is an extra income and an additional opportunity for pensioners. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-244	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, MSZP Group.
u2017-10-30-245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear László Vigh, It was an excellent proposal, it was excellent what you said, it is necessary for these people, and I think that there would be no need for a proposal if they were, by the way, mining pensioners to this day. So what my oppositionary, better-looking fellow Member has been pressuring me about, and, by the way, in the general debate, is that, by the way, they have actually changed the system of early retirement pensions in a lawnmower manner, abolished a number of pensions of a type, with former employees of armed organs or, where appropriate, miners, which were certainly due to them, because, in particular, the miners were engaged in a profession in the depths of the earth, where appropriate, working in a deep-cultivated branch that was very harmful to their health, and, indeed, much less than the large average of society, they were entitled to retirement age. That's why they got the prospect of a mining pension. If, to this day, they were to receive a mining pension, as thousands more receive this allowance, and it would not be a small amount for them, then, of course, they could work in a pensioner's cooperative under the original rules, if they thought so. So I would really like to confirm the lesson of the general debate just once more, and I would not hold my speech today for a very long time. I would like to say that they would do the right thing by giving back the mining pension to those miners who have earned it by the work of their lives to whom you have taken it. If they were given this, they would be entitled to work in a pensioner's cooperative without this proposal under today's legislation. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-10-30-246	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I wonder if any of my fellow Members would like to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I will ask Mr Sándor Hadházy if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman. [[18.40]]
u2017-10-30-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It is very sympathetic and true in many respects what we have heard from the opposition benches, but at a time when these early retirement pensions had to be abolished and abolished, this was a very legitimate social need, since there were tensions on the labour market that had to be remedied. Here for law enforcement workers, not only did the actual staff benefit from these benefits in terms of armed service, but also other auxiliary staff, office staff and others, and, indeed, they did not meet the social requirement that they could retire at the age of 40 or 45. I think that this was certainly an appropriate step, especially given that the situation in the labour market at that time looked very different, since there was an incredible level of unemployment visible. Today, this has fundamentally changed, the economy has been significantly strengthened, and there is a need for a skilled, good workforce, and I think that this is a good opportunity for everyone who still has the strength and the talent to use their knowledge and working power in the form of a pensioner-cooperative in addition to supplies. So, with all due respect, I would ask the Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-30-248	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, A joint debate on the proposal for a decision to support the Minority SafePack European Citizens' Initiative will follow. Presentation by the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary H/18032. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. I would like to inform you that a total of 10 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 2 minutes, 5 minutes, 2 minutes for the presentation of the opinion of the minority, 5 minutes for the speeches of the political groups, 2 minutes for the speeches of the independent Members and minority advocates are available for the opening and closing of the House rules adopted. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Fuzik, Slovak ethnic advocate, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. I would like to inform the speaker that he has a total time frame of 10 minutes for his speech in the debate and the presentation of the possible closing phrase. You have the floor.
u2017-10-30-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Vážený pan predseda! Vážené národné zhromaždenie! Pozdravujem Vás vo svojom slovenskom materinskom jazyku aj v mene parlamentného Výboru pre národnosti v Ma. Arsku a prájem úspesné rokovanie! Mr President, Dear Parliament, In my Slovak mother tongue, I also welcomed you on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and wished for an effective meeting. I can now address you as rapporteur for a proposal for a Commission parliamentary decision, which has not been a precedent for Parliament in the many three-year history of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. We ethnic advocates really think carefully about when we are living with this special, collective, committee license. However, in support of the Federative Union of European Nationalities, the FUEN citizens' initiative, we did not hesitate to submit such a separate Commission motion, which is in the parliamentary register H/18032. It's got a paper number. The FUEN citizens' initiative, the largest European ethnic umbrella organisation, bears the name of the "Minority SafePack" - one million signatures for European diversity. The main objective of this minority security package is to protect indigenous national and linguistic minorities in Europe and to achieve EU legislation on the preservation of Europe's linguistic and cultural diversity. They may be more familiar with ethnic issues, since minority protection laws are in place in Europe. Our nationality law also refers in its preamble to, inter alia, the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages and the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities. However, these important legislation has been under the auspices of the Council of Europe for a good period of two decades. The European Union, as incredible as it may seem, has not, as far as I know, drawn up any legislation protecting nationalities. Yet, one in every seven of the 500 million inhabitants of the Union belong to a native nationality, speaks a minority or regional language; 70 million people, a large EU country citizen whose particular culture is not protected in any way by the European Union, most of their languages are at risk. It is therefore important that the FUEN initiative be assessed by experts as the largest minority protection activity in the last two and a half decades since the adoption of the Framework Convention and the Language Charter. This initiative was not welcomed with open arms in the European Union. The registration of the first initiative submitted in July 2013 was rejected by the European Commission. The group was formed by FUEN President Hans Heinrich Hansen and the civil committee of the organization, in which Kelemen Hunor, President of the Hungarian Democratic Alliance of Romania and other prominent politicians and representatives of nationalities took place from Belgium, Denmark, South Tyrol, Germany and Slovenia. The initiators soon became plaintiffs because the European Commission's negative decision was attacked at the Court of Justice of the European Union. The Government of Hungary has submitted an action form on the plaintiffs' side. In addition to the defendant, Romania and Slovakia intervened. The FUEN applicants won the lawsuit and in March 2017 the European Commission agreed with the initiators on the partial registration of their package of proposals. 9 points in the originally 11-point minority protection security package were approved. The citizens' initiative's legislative programme calls for policy measures in the areas of regional and minority languages, education and culture, regional policy, participation, equality, audiovisual and other media content, and regional and state aid, so that indigenous European nationalities living in their homeland for generations can continue to thrive in the same place in the future. At its meeting on 16 October, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities was briefed by the new President of FUEN, Vincze Lorán, who was elected as a member of the Hungarian national community in Romania. His example also indicates that the field of vision of the organisation, which was primarily western European, has widened to the east. Today, FUEN can know 95 different national minority organisations in 35 countries, including national national self-governments and NGOs. Some of them were at the FUEN 62nd Congress this May in Cluj-Napoca, where the collection of signatures for the citizens' initiative "Minority SafePack" has officially begun. According to the rules, the validity of the initiative requires the signing of slightly more than one million citizens from at least seven countries of the European Union. The activity of Hungarian and ethnic citizens, as well as the Hungarian parts of Hungary from abroad, is essential for success, which can be encouraged with great efficiency by our proposal for a parliamentary decision. [[18.50]] On behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I would like to ask this House to adopt the proposal for a decision to support the citizens' initiative "Minority SafePack" - one million signatures for Europe's diversity. In the hope of that, I thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of governing parties and ethnic advocates.]]
u2017-10-30-250	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. I'll inform you that you have two minutes and 30 seconds to tell the closing word. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Árpád János Potápi, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-30-251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Speech Lords, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Government considers it of particular importance to raise the protection of indigenous national minorities to the EU level. As has been said, we are talking about 60-70 million people in Europe, and if these national minorities and nationalities lived in one country, they could be the second-third strongest Member State in the Union. We also know that the number and number of national minorities in Europe have been higher in the previous centuries, but their number and proportion have decreased significantly due to the large EU countries and their ethnicity policy. I believe that as Hungarians and as nationalities in Hungary, we cannot accept that this is the way they treat indigenous national minorities at European level. I also personally find it a little tragic that we, as a European Union country, should act together in 2017 to call for the protection of the people of Europe who have lived here for hundreds of years or even thousands of years. At the same time, we can see how many people speak for flowers, plants or even frogs or birds, to what high political levels they can raise these topics, and we should be a little ashamed of ourselves if we dare to defend indigenous national minorities. I believe that all parliamentary parties agree that we are facing a huge opportunity, because with registration there is a chance that, with the support of one million citizens from a quarter of the Member States or from a minimum of seven, the citizens' initiative will be successful and that the issue of indigenous national minorities will finally be on the Union's agenda. The deadline for collecting signatures has already been set, but let me stress once again, this is 3 April 2018. We're halfway through this collection of signatures, and although no numbers have been said, we've obviously heard them from the media. I think that the number of signatures is small compared to the half-time, and that is why I would like to ask the representatives of the Hungarian parliamentary parties and the parties, and also the ethnicities in Hungary, to do everything to ensure that the signatures are collected by 3 March, and we can show that we work together on a matter that is extremely important to us, because one third of our nation lives beyond the borders, as well as other nations or ethnicities in Central Europe, because they have a similar history and their nationalities live in several countries. I believe that if there is a joint alliance between the parliamentary parties, a joint alliance with the nationalities and the members of the Hungarian communities in neighbouring countries, then the collection of signatures can be successful. We would also like to address... - so not only do we expect Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin, but we also address and ask for the support of the Hungarians of the diaspora. This is obviously the first place to think about the Hungarian diaspora in Europe, Austria, Germany, Sweden, the countries where there is a great Hungarian diaspora, so that they can do everything possible to report success on 3 March. I think that's not impossible. I also ask your support for this. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of governing parties and ethnic advocates.]]
u2017-10-30-252	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman László Kucsák, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-10-30-253	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Speaking Lords! Fellow Members! I would like to inform the Parliament that, under the derogation from the adopted house rules, the Legislative Committee has today discussed the H/18032 on the promotion of the Minority SafePack European Citizens' Initiative. The proposal for a decision, submitted by the Committee without intention of amending it, was supported by a unanimous decision, i.e. 21 votes in favour. In view of all this, and in view of what has been said above, I would ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the proposal for a decision. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of governing parties and ethnic advocates.]]
u2017-10-30-254	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 5-5 minutes, the independent Members and the advocates have 2-2 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Károly Panczél of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor.
u2017-10-30-255	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the national minority spokespersons, First of all, I would like to thank you, the committee on nationality, for bringing this matter, this initiative, in the form of a proposal for a resolution, to the Hungarian Parliament. A proposal for a decision to support the Minority SafePack European Citizens' Initiative, a million signatures for diversity in Europe. Well, my fellow Members, it is obvious that this name is much more understandable to us, and for the Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin, be it in the mother country or even in the torn parts of the country, if we give it a proper Hungarian name, and say, in the coming months we use, for example, a national minority protection initiative. I do not want to criticise the diversity of the European Union or the English terms, but I think that our most important task is to support a national minority protection initiative. I think that the case itself could be similar to what happened here in the Hungarian Parliament a few weeks ago, when we acted together against Article 7 of the Ukrainian language law, because at that time there was a five-party consultation and a five-party agreement in the Hungarian Parliament. I said here that it is welcome that national policy already has some or at least the most important issues of national policy can be regarded as a national minimum. I'm still hoping that this case will also be a national minimum. [[19.00]] Secretary of State targeted the signature, the signature collection. I would like to tell you that Hungary's largest NGO and association, the Rákóczi Association, has already taken up the matter. The Rákóczi Association has more than 20,000 members, and their sensitivity to national policy has been demonstrated in recent years and decades. A lot of good results have been achieved, and I very much hope that this civil society organisation will indeed be joined by parties, associations and civil society organisations, so that the proper number of signatures can be obtained. The National Inclusion Committee has also dealt with this initiative. At our meeting on 23 May, we were able to make a unanimous decision to adopt a resolution in which we welcomed the initiative, in which we drew attention to as many support as possible, and we are convinced that it is vital to bring this matter to success for indigenous national minorities, which account for almost 10 percent of the European Union, and that it can promote the acquisition of community and personal self-determination, survival and prosperity in the homeland. Dear House, The package of proposals drawn up by FUEN and RMDSZ on linguistic, educational and cultural issues, measures proposed to the European Union in regional policy, media regulation and support policy. This initiative was previously rejected by the European Commission, saying that it does not fall within its competence or that it is a matter of Member State competence. I would like to draw attention to the fact that many European countries have developed serious plans for the protection of minorities before their accession, but they have not been implemented since then and are therefore not subject to any sanctions. It is now time for the European Union to protect the 40 million citizens who live in a national minority line, who do not want to assimilate, which national minorities have created value in Europe, and will continue to create value in the future in the country where they live and whose citizens are, but have the right to free language, symbolism, equal treatment and the preservation of their national culture. I would like to ask you with respect to support this proposal for a resolution in tomorrow's vote, and to facilitate the collection of the appropriate amount of signatures in the coming months. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-30-256	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann, KDNP Group.
u2017-10-30-257	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Nationality Speaker Lords and distant Ladies! I also wanted to start with this, and I will start with this, as the previous Károly Panczél, thank you for this initiative, which is very important here in Hungary and Central Europe, since XX. and the storms of the previous centuries have brought about conditions that have been decided over the heads of people belonging to different peoples and groups of mother tongues about national borders and affiliations, and it is not that they have migrated here and there. Therefore, the indigenous minority, the indigenous national minority, is a protected concept in which it must be shown that people have sometimes become citizens of some, two or three or four countries in their lives, out of their own resolve. If we do not defend or defend their nationality and mother tongue, then the most important element of their identity, the right to the mother tongue, will be lost. The right to a mother tongue, the right to use a mother tongue, is a fundamental condition for their personal, psychological, spiritual, intellectual and emotional development. Everyone knows that, even if some people deny it. At a better time, they could never have initiated this parliamentary resolution, which the Christian Democratic People's Party naturally wholeheartedly supports, than today, when we faced the fact that Ukraine, which is east of us, while expressing equal opportunities for minorities, adopted a law in Parliament which, under the false password of equal opportunities, is withdrawing important rights from more than ten, perhaps 16 national minorities in its country. We have also faced the double speech that unfortunately is now common in European politics - if only we could forget it for a lifetime! - that, as I have said, they argue in favour of the law, which every human being realizes are false words, that they are not true, but very few say that to their eyes. That is why we were delighted and pleased with this initiative, which I would like to say a few more words about. When European international organisations were established, among them the Council of Europe, very positively placed the rights of minorities, the use of mother tongue and linguistic diversity on its flag. In this spirit, he created a Charter of Regional and Minority Languages, which you have mentioned, which will celebrate its 25th birthday next year, and then the Minority Framework Convention, underlining with countless actions and measures that this is important to this issue. But we have to face the fact that, in all Member States, with the exception of Hungary and one or two areas, these minority language rights may be quite beautiful on paper, and the laws may be completely in order, but the practice is quite different. That is what I was faced with when I also worked on and collected material on my report under the Council of Europe. This report is about the use of regional and ethnic minority languages, perhaps in January, where many of my interview partners have formulated this problem. Well, one of the most well-known European organisations, the European Union has so far not created any law, as we have heard. It is time to create legislation that is tougher than a recommendation adopted by the Council of Europe, because if we want to live in a truly free world, where people's freedoms prevail not only on paper, not only in words, but also in reality, we must raise our voice to defend minority rights. It's a pleasure to have the FUEN initiative. Let's support him in every forum, for all of us, I think it's his sacred duty. And it is also a pleasure that the Hungarian Parliament will again act unanimously in favour of this initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-30-258	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member István Szávay of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor.
u2017-10-30-259	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen of the Nationalities Speakers! From the establishment of the Jobbik Hungary Movement, he confessed and agreed that everyone has the right to freely choose, confess, preserve, live his national identity, have the right to use his mother tongue freely, and have the right to thrive in his homeland. We believe and believe on many occasions that Hungary should also ensure all these rights and the real possibility of exercising all these rights in its territory, so we supported the new nationality law at the time, and even on the proposal of Jobbik, positive amendments to the law that further reduced the threshold for the use of mother tongue in certain areas. We have always considered it important for Hungary to pursue an exemplary national policy, which can be modelled and even demanded for neighbouring countries. [[19.10]] We are pleased that the committee of nationalities has taken a unanimous decision on this initiative. This is obviously not only a sign of its professional foundation, but also a very nice symbolic message on the fact that we must work together and jointly to ensure and facilitate the survival of the Central European national communities. While we are here, although it does not belong closely, I would also like to thank the committee for its decision to condemn the Ukrainian education law. It was a gesture beyond itself, I think, because if the committee speaks in such a case or if any member of the committee is a member of the committee, it has a weight, beyond the border, it is obviously heard in a different way in the neighbouring countries. Obviously, there is also a nice message that we have now been able to discuss this proposal with a unanimous decision on this and all the factions of the Hungarian Parliament have contributed to its negotiation itself, because it is in the common interest of all of us, the duty of the Hungarian Parliament, obviously also because of Hungarians and ethnicities across the border, to support such an initiative, of course Jobbik will also do so. In fact, when the news came out that the European Commission had passed this proposal, we welcomed it immediately from the very beginning and asked our members and sympathizers to join it. I don't want to ruin this moment, but there are two things that need to be done. My fellow Member Panczél spoke about the fact that various minority protection treaties and agreements were also concluded for Eastern European countries in connection with the accession to the EU, which have not always been complied with. This may perhaps be an excellent opportunity to eliminate this damage, or even you, my pro-government fellow Members, should eliminate it - although many of the socialists are not here now - because at a time when it would have been possible to act on this issue in connection with EU accession or to impose conditions in this case, for example, in relation to Romania, you did not do so, but unconditionally supported the accession of Romania to the EU, despite the fact that Viktor Orbán had promised autonomy to the Szeklers at the time. The second thing that is also very sad is that the National Election Committee has recently stated that the Hungarian Democratic Association of Romania, on your behalf, collects signatures in Transylvania, which has been linked to participation in the elections in Hungary. I call on my fellow members of the Government to avoid connecting matters which are not compatible, not to mention such a noble initiative with any other intentions, no other party political intentions. Let's not tie these things together, because one can discredit the other. This is a proposal behind which we can line up together, and it seems that this is happening, and we have done so. This is a proposal that can help, as we have heard, one in seven citizens of the European Union, among whom we have many foreign national brothers; it can help to stay in their homeland, to thrive in their homeland, to live on their ethnic and linguistic rights, and perhaps thus to impose obligations on neighbouring countries that we have not yet been able to do in the European Union. The proposal is, of course, supported. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and ethnic advocates.]]
u2017-10-30-260	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches by Members who have signed up in writing. It is now up to Members to speak in the normal time frame. I give the floor to Mr Sándor Burány, MSZP Group.
u2017-10-30-261	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, It is a dilemma for all opposition parties that if a proposal comes in and the authors ask us to deviate from the house rules, whether or not they give this consent, because every opposition party, we socialists, can rightly demand from the authors, unless there is a special crisis, we should not create laws in haste, we should not make decisions in the Hungarian Parliament in two days' time, if we can do so normally, in the ordinary legislative procedure, not in two days, but in a few weeks, if appropriate. It would give us a more thorough discussion, a greater discretion. At the same time, I must also say that in the case of a derogation from today's house rule, we supported the discussion of this proposal for a resolution because we agree with its objectives, we fully agree, and we always have to consider whether technology is such an important argument as to refuse to contribute. While maintaining our critical comments on such rapid legislative work in general, I must add that the aim here is much more important than discussing methods and details. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to make some comments. We often have to be careful with the wording. It is clear that some of the countries of the European Union are already multi-ethnic. Now the United Kingdom is leaving the Union, but we are talking about a multi-ethnic country in the first place. Multiethnic country, which is not a member of the Union, in this sense Switzerland, where part of the cantons in Italy, part of the cantons in France and part of the cantons in Germany is the ruler of the typical mother tongue. Belgium is a member of the Union, where Flemishs and Vallons have been living together for centuries, unfortunately not necessarily in harmony lately. The Catalan crisis, the Spanish crisis, is happening in front of us, which clearly indicates that the rights and cultural identity of minorities must be respected in all countries, because otherwise there will be trouble. So it is not simply that the Union - although Hungary often says so, the Hungarian government also often says so - consists of nation states, strong nation states; the truth is that it does not necessarily consist of nation states. And when we Hungarians are talking about nation states forming the Union, strong nation states, we often forget that if politicians in neighbouring Romania are talking about Romania being a nation state, then this is a violation of our ears, because it conceals that individual countries are not purely a nationality, they are members of a nation, they are multi-ethnics, and there are also national minorities in the country. Especially when a responsible Hungarian politician ventures to the point where he talks about ethnically homogeneous Hungary, which is simply impossible because of the historical history and the present situation. We are doing the right thing by fighting for the rights of Hungarian minorities by acknowledging that Hungarians are not the only minority in Europe, here in the Carpathian Basin, but in many countries there are different nationalities in minorities. We have a chance to enforce the rights of Hungarian minorities in neighbouring countries if we take note of similar aspirations and rights of other European minorities. In this case, it is not possible to blow cold and warm from one mouth at the same time: what we demand of Hungarian minorities, it must be given to non-Hungarian minorities living in Hungary, and it must be given to all minorities living in European countries. In conclusion, despite all our technical or foreign policy criticisms, we believe that this is a very important initiative that the Hungarian Parliament should support, and the group of the MSZP will support. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-10-30-262	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member István Ikotity, LMP Group.
u2017-10-30-263	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Speech Lords, The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary submitted a proposal for a resolution to support the Minority SafePack European Citizens' Initiative, launched by the Federation Union of European Nationalities and the DAHR, and the project is the result of the most important European minority cooperation in recent decades. [[19.20]] The May Other is the parliamentary faction of Politics, of course all its bodies support the proposal, as LMP was among the first to take up the issue of a citizens' initiative protecting the rights of nationalities and minorities. The initiative has already been signed, and we encourage everyone to do so, because one million signatures need to be collected in one year to support the European citizens' initiative from at least seven EU countries. Minority SafePack aims to create a European Minority Protection Act. Ladies and gentlemen, More than 60 million people live in minorities in Europe, the legislative package protects them by a number of means, including protecting language, symbol rights, promoting national culture and traditions, ensuring equal treatment of majority society, allowing the EU to intervene when a minority is being trampled or restricted. This is a particularly important value for us; the Transcarpathian and Transylvanian events of the past months have also demonstrated that we need to act more effectively at European Union level in order to protect the rights of foreign Hungarians. This is a national issue that cannot be the subject of party policy debates, so we encourage all political communities to support the collection of signatures and support the initiative, as there must also be a forum to support the rights of minorities living in countries outside the European Union. Thank you for your attention and your word. [[Applause from the ranks of the MSZP, Jobbik and ethnic advocates.]]
u2017-10-30-264	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr János Fuzik, who, as rapporteur, wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2017-10-30-265	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and my fellow speakers, I also thank you for the words of appreciation that you have said about our initiative and for what you have done for us. We are pleased that we have been able to create unity again in Parliament with one issue, and thank you very much for the support of all the factions, either at the House Committee meeting, during today's vote, with which you supported a disparate negotiation from house rules. And thank the Legislative Committee for unanimously supporting our vision. I must be honest with you that the Commission's resolution of May on the Committee on National Inclusion inspired and inspired us when we considered the possibility, as I said, to submit, for the first time in the history of the Committee, a separate Commission motion for the adoption of a resolution by Parliament. I see that there is every chance that this will happen tomorrow, which will please us, because the Hungarian Parliament will be the first of the parliaments of the European countries. And I believe that this is also an exemplary event, that this European citizens' initiative on minority protection and protection of nationalities is supported by Parliament, and with the weight and dignity of its decision, we believe that this citizens' initiative, which has undertaken a very small task, as Mr State Secretary has said, because collecting one million signatures from at least seven countries is not a small thing, we trust that this will succeed, and we believe that the decision of the Parliament, after an effective collection of signatures, will really lead the European Commission to consider and initiate the necessary legislative process. Thank you again, and thank you for your attention.
u2017-10-30-266	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of today's agenda. We will now continue our work with speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr Zoltán Magyar, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a post-municipal speech. It's called the 3rd. I'll give you the floor in five minutes.
u2017-10-30-267	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Over the last few weeks, I have been trying to make the decision makers aware of as many problems as possible in Rábaköz and its countryside, so that the crafty and difficult things in this region can finally be said here, and I hope that, taking advantage of their last six months, they may be able to make some meaningful decisions that can help this region. Since time is not long, I am attempting to mention a settlement with a typical problem, and I hope that I may be able to get a meaningful answer to these questions. Not for myself, but believe me, the thousands of voters living there would be very curious to know why these problems have not been resolved, even because many of them in the 2014 election campaign were still the promises of the Fidesz candidate, i.e. that they will solve these problems. So I'm gonna ask everyone here why they don't deserve to be on the road. Why can't the clay-szergénites use the resources for what's really missing in their settlement? Why don't the barley people deserve as much as they do in a city? They often complain, feel treated as second - class citizens. But for example, family farms in Babat would be interested in why they can no longer make a living from their work. I guess they don't ask, they don't ask a lot. In the same way they do not understand why they cannot support their initiative to save the local school. But the Barbacians also asked me, for example, why the pro-government politicians supported another interest when it came to granting the right to hunt. But I could also mention Beled, because the small town was promised to become the center of the region. No substantive steps have been taken in comparison to this. Bezin mentioned the untenable state of the road network in the same way as in so many other interracial settlements. And I think that the people of Bodon also deserve that the per capita development resources at least reach the average of the region. We're well out of it, and we're staying in a number of interracial settlements. The people of Bogyoszló also complained about the road network, and this weekend I had the opportunity to experience again that virtually war conditions prevail in this area. These are the most important problems that I thought worth mentioning in these settlements, and we are confident that we will finally get substantive answers on why these resources cannot be used properly in the Western part of Transdanubia, in order to resolve these problems. Today, I would like substantive answers to these questions. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-30-268	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Ander Balázs, Member of the Jobbik Group, also applied for a post-scheduled speech: . What is the value of the worker if he is Hungarian? It's an address. I give you the floor.
u2017-10-30-269	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, What's a worker worth if he's Hungarian? We have to answer that: in Hungary, little has fallen into a kind of colony of multinationals and into the province of your new feudal oligarchs. But if they emigrate to the West for adventure, maybe a little more there. All of this was not by accident, it has long and long decades of work in it. Péter Veres is already very, very early - this is obviously not for your government - what is a person worth if he is Hungarian? He said in his work, "We can see that in this capitalist environment, even our virtues will be in vain. We're working like idiots, other people are doing their best, because we couldn't arrange the job or the exchange. The fact is that according to all OECD surveys, Hungary is a driving force in terms of wages and working conditions. It is no wonder, since both the Fidesz governments and the eight years before were guided by the fact that the main ability to attract capital in Hungary could be reduced by low wages and the reduction and destruction of employees' rights. [[19.30]] Despite the fact that the productivity of an average Hungarian worker reaches 70 percent of the workers in the most developed Western European countries, and in the annual hourly work, Hungarian workers, say, spend hundreds of hours on Germans producing 1400 years of hours with their 1900 hours worked, nevertheless, the Hungarian wage level only reaches a quarter of the Austrian wage level, which is obviously barely a livelihood. It is not for nothing that 600,000 of our countrymen have wandered out of Hungary, and there are hundreds of thousands more. It is clear that this has seriously endangered human capital regeneration. We are trapped at the bottom of the global value chains of multinational companies, where Hungarian workers are slaved. And especially it is a knife opener, if we don't go to Austria or Germany, but let's say we only look at the case of neighbouring Slovakia, Slovakia, which actually has a similar historical history with us, where from the beginning of 2018 the net minimum wage will be 124,000 forints in euro, compared to your 92 thousand forints, which they are so proud of. Obviously, not everyone in Hungary is forced to grow under such poor conditions, because, as a result of the harvest of these eight years and the past eight years, the hundred richest Hungarians have been able to increase their assets from HUF 600 billion to HUF 3000 billion, and indeed, there was no such chance that they were able to increase their assets by HUF 100 billion in one year, but by their vast brains, they are also smarter than Zuckerberg's, a wealthy government close to the government, who was able to increase their assets by HUF 100 billion in one year. Please, this means that, while I am speaking here, Mr. Butcher's fortune has increased by nearly HUF 1 million in about five minutes. She's going to bed tonight, and by the time she wakes up tomorrow morning, she'll have nearly 100 million forints more in eight hours. This is outrageous, this is what Jobbik doesn't want, which is why we also announced our wage union initiative, which the government says no to. You offer a strategic partnership to multinational companies and force strategic servants on Hungarian workers. To prove this by numbers: Between 2005 and 2010, the Socialists, acting like you, allocated HUF 111 billion to multinational companies, Fidesz between 2011 and 2016, HUF 165 billion. What if it's not outrageous? Trade unions have been destroyed, weakened, the right to strike, the right to live with strikes have actually been made impossible in Hungary. That's what we're gonna change. In the event of Jobbik's entry into the government, he will write a new Labour Code with the trade unions, in consultation with employees' interests, we will establish a new trade union law, and it should also be added that, in view of this, the situation of workers in Hungary will improve at a level that will also allow for the paradigm shift that we demand in terms of wages. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-30-270	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, Member of the Jobbik Group, also asked to speak after the agenda, approaching the 100th anniversary of Trianon. It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-30-271	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I'm really glad you stayed. We live in this country with the Hungarians, Saxons, Jews, Roma, all these nations welcomed the statement of Gyulafehérvár and the union of Transylvania with Romania, said Lucian Romaşcanu, Romanian Minister for Culture and National Identity two weeks ago. And then he added, "I think we're okay, and we're gonna keep what our ancestors promised us in 1918. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Within the walls of this House, I have spoken many times over the last few months about the fact that Romania and the other neighbouring countries are preparing to celebrate all the steps of Trianon and Trianon in the coming years separately, but with a bigger chinnadratta. There are clear signs of everything already organized in 2016, the events and military tombs celebrating the Transylvanian invasion of Transylvania in 1916, but it is obviously no coincidence that the name of the Hungarian capital was returned to Bucharest last year, referring to the Romanian invasion in 1919, as well as the fact that the Romanian airline TAROM has named its newest aircraft "Nagy Egyesülés" in its name. Dear Parliament, And the Romanians must accept that we will not know or want to celebrate 1918. This was already said by Kelemen Hunor, President of the Hungarian Democratic Alliance of Romania in August this year, triggering an amazing hysteria by Romanian public life and the media, resulting in the withdrawal of Romanian citizenship. Yet he said only the truth, with which most Hungarians from Transylvania, but many Romanians and residents from other nationalities can identify. We all know that the Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin do not currently expect legal, educational or economic safeguards in any of the trianon successor states that are essential to preserving their national identity. Neither the Romanians nor others have complied with their promises to us, nor with international or bilateral treaties, for which the abnormally discriminatory Ukrainian education law is an excellent example. We know all this, Mr Secretary of State, my fellow Members, but others in Europe and the world do not. And if we allow the coming years to be dominated by Romanian, Slovak or Serbian historical narrative and propaganda abroad, this situation will even deteriorate. For the coming years, many have a strong fear beyond our borders of what will happen to them in the midst of great celebrations. As early as February this year, my colleague Gergely Farkas and I presented a proposal for a decision declaring the year 2020 Trianon Memorial Year in order to enable Hungarian state preparation and assistance to begin early in the difficult years before the Hungarians from abroad. This was, by the way, a rather thin proposal in order to create as broad a consensus as possible behind it, not only in Parliament, but among the whole nation. We know precisely that the Hungarians from abroad do not expect ideological debates to be held late in this area, but they expect swift and firm standing, as well as effective preparation and promotion of interest from the Hungarian state. My fellow members of the Government. Mr. Secretary. You have swept off this proposal with the justification that a more detailed proposal to commemorate the entire historical era between 1918 and 20 will be prepared in the second half of 2017, from the murder of Tisza to the Károlyi spree and the Red Terror to the Trianon peace treaty, all the important events of this sad era. One of the problems is that it is October 30, 2017, and no proposals have yet been submitted to the House, and the time is running out, since we are only a year from the 100th anniversary of the so-called great Romanian merger, the great merger. The other more serious problem is that by citing Károlyi or Red Terror, you will sink Trianon's case in the swamp of divisive ideological disputes. On this anniversary, if this proposal is brought here in this way, if it is brought here at all, there will be sharing and rolling in ideological trenches, focusing on issues that will certainly not be agreed, no consensus will be reached. We have suggested, and we are asking us now to put aside who thinks about the historical role of Michael Károlyi, what we think about Miklós Horthy or the red terror. This is a serious responsibility on your shoulders, Mr. Secretary of State, and it is a historical sin if this commemoration is to be carried out in this way. We ask you to consider this position. If this proposal has not already been tabled, consider it when I have spoken, consider what we have discussed before. If no new proposal has been made, we, my fellow Member Gergely Farkas, will once again present a proposal aimed at achieving a united, stronger and more effective response to the propaganda of neighbouring states, so that on the anniversary of the 1920s we really remember Hungarians from beyond the border, remembering what has happened to our communities from abroad over the last hundred years, and we can determine what the tasks and duties they can expect of the Hungarian state on this anniversary in the coming years. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-30-272	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group, also came forward after the agenda, with a title of 500 years. I give you the floor. [[19.40]]
u2017-10-30-273	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I could have given this speech the title of whether we dared to celebrate the Reformation. 500 years ago, a revolutionary change began in the world; apparently, in a first approach, it is a religious event that is also referred to as a disunity. However, today's impactful Reformation has much deeper significance. Our country has dedicated an entire year to the memory of the Reformation, but unfortunately, even now, on the day before the closure, we see thoughts that try to ruin and desecrate this holiday. It is only unfortunate to say that some Hungarian Catholic church leaders do not view Reformation as a celebration, unlike Pope Francis, who significantly and effectively facilitates the approach of Christian denominations. The other day, I met a message spread by those who call themselves Catholic. This is what they say, and I quote: Celebrating Reformation as a Christian is like celebrating Trianon as a Hungarian. As Catholics, Christians, thinkers, we must reject such lying metaphors. Reformation is not about tearing, it is about renewal. Luther never wanted to break up a church, which was caused by the council's decision after his death. Each Christian bears a painful burden of religious opposition, the scandalous burden of separation, but as long as the wounds heal, everyone, the Catholics, must acknowledge that they have a great deal to do with both breaking up and triggering it, and we have a lot to do with it, I say as a Catholic. What are we celebrating through the Reformation? Most of all, it's the reformers that make it possible to ask questions. We should doubt from above the statements given to us by power. We can also celebrate that some brave men dared to defy the corrupt system of that era, redemption for money, and vile leaders promising heavenly benefits. Reformation means breaking up with sheeplike submission and manipulation. Today, after half a thousand years, the person who views Reformation as a celebration, at the same time acknowledges the fallibleness of man, the need to confess mistakes and sins, and at the same time says no to bowing to corrupt leaders, to silence critical voices, to black and white thinking. I am convinced that our country's society also needs constant renewal, continuous and sincere reformation. Let us celebrate together the 500th anniversary of the Reformation, and let us be the determined reformers of our time. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-10-30-274	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Gergely Farkas also applied for an after-the-meeting speech:, As a 21st-century party, Jobbik faces the new challenges of the 21st-century - Title VI. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-30-275	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to continue my series of speeches on the subject of Article XXI of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 100th century programme points, proposals and solutions, which are part of the 21st century. There may be appropriate responses to the challenges and circumstances of the century. As part of the sixth part of this series, in order to reduce smoking, I would like to say a few words in the context of electric cigarettes. Why is the 21st issue important? 21st century challenges In the course of a century's responses? Unfortunately, the rate of smokers among society is alarming, which is also apparent from the analysis in the Statistical Review. In Hungary, one in two men and one in three women are involved in nicotine addiction. Between 2000 and 2014, hundreds of thousands of people died from smoking in our country. The analysis also shows that the proportion of smokers in 18-30 years has not changed over 15 years. And the fact that among the nations of the region, apart from Slovenia, the rate of death due to smoking in Hungary has dropped to the least. It is also remarkable that Billion Lives, a billion lives, has been awarded numerous international awards, and will end prematurely in this century, according to the World Health Organization's calculations, due to the complications of smoking. The film, directed by Aaron Biebert, took place last November 12 in Uránia Film Theatre in Hungary, where after the screening it was possible to meet the director of the film as well as the main character David Goerlitz, who was the American advertising face of Winston cigarettes in the 1980s, but after his brother died as a result of smoking, he quit smoking. The government has undoubtedly taken measures in recent years to prevent and stop smoking. Steps in the prevention of habit and in support of quitting are also to be welcomed. The new domestic system of tobacco supply has also contributed somewhat to the reduction in the number of smokers, especially underage smokers. At the same time, it is important to stress that we still have a responsibility in this area for the health of Hungarian society, especially if we bear in mind that 30,000 Hungarians fall victim to smoking every year. In this spirit, I think that anything that reduces smoking cigarettes and thus reduces the number of deaths, diseases, is a public health prize. In this context, I would also like to address the issue of e-cigarette. According to the OEP, the number of e-cigarette users in Hungary is approximately 270 thousand, so I think it is not a question of serious social involvement. Accordingly, it should be borne in mind. First of all, I think it is necessary to make the basis for determining the primary substance of support for e-cigarettes. This basic principle is that e-cigarettes are not tobacco products, so e-cigaretters are not considered smokers either. In this context, Jobbik believes that it is a smoking cessation aid and can thus play a significant role in the health field, of course, along with the appropriate regulations, which my fellow Member István Szávay has spoken about several times before. It should be considered that both Delon Human, former President of the World Medical Association, and Derek Yach, former Executive Director of the World Health Organization, who led the launch of the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, are in favour of e-cigarette. According to Eurobarometer research, in 2014 around 6.1 million citizens of the European Union completely quit smoking with the help of e-cigarettes, and 9 million people who reduced the consumption of cut tobacco products thanks to this tool. The research also shows that only l.3% of non-smokers have tried the e-cigarette, which shows that the number of smokers using this device is low. Rather, it is a means of helping to quit. It is worth taking into account perhaps the most important study of the past period, the work of the Royal College of English Doctors, and a representative Eurobarometer analysis, which shows that e-cigarettes are generally 95 percent less harmful than their fellows containing traditional cut tobacco. Dear Parliament, Not only Jobbik, but a number of professional organizations such as the Electricity Association and the Electric Cigarette Platform Civil Health Conservation Movement have also voiced all these positions, to whom recognition and thanks are also due. Overall, I think that it is a matter of strategic importance for health, and, as such, it is in the common interest and interest of all of us to ensure that e-cigarettes receive support as widely as possible as a means of assisting the process of quitting. We therefore hope that further steps will be taken in the positive regulatory process that has been launched over the past year in relation to the use and marketing of e-cigarettes. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-30-276	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 7:48 p.m.]]
