u2017-10-19-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 12th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and István Ikotity will be taking part in this meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian and Bulgarian people's historical friendship can be celebrated for the second time within the official framework, since both the Hungarian Parliament and the Bulgarian National Assembly decided in September 2016 to declare 19 October a day of Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship. The celebration not only serves to express and strengthen the traditional relationship and cooperation between the two peoples in many areas, but also reminds us of our joint Christian faith. In this connection, it is worth recalling the Hungarian-related legend of Saint John Rila, the patron saint of Bulgaria, related to the relics of the Orthodox Church. When III. Our King Béla marched against Byzantines, the castle of Sredec under Byzantine rule - today's Sofia - and the relics of the Bulgarian recluse's father, John Rlai, were brought here by Esztergom. The saint, as well as his artifacts, was attributed a number of healing miracles. However, the Archbishop of Esztergom did not believe in his holy intervention and repeatedly refused. Legend has it that the Archbishop was silenced on one occasion and regained his voice only after he repented and touched the relic. When III. Bela learned about the miracle, decorated the artifact with gold and silver, and then shipped it back to the Bulgarian capital of Tarnovo. In Bulgaria, on this day, October 19th, St. John Rila is remembered. The celebration of Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship is also a good day for the Bulgarian community in Hungary. The members of this national minority are a significant part of Article XX of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In the first half of the century, the descendants of gardeners arrived in Hungary, who played a prominent role in the development of Hungarian garden culture, and with their diligence and honesty they quickly gained recognition in Hungary. They are also commemorated by the Bulgarian Wheel monument set up in Halásztelken in 2007, as well as the Bulgarian gardener-sculptor group erected in Zugló in 2014. The Bulgarians in Hungary actively preserve their identity, cultivate their religion and culture. A number of recent events that have demonstrated this can be seen: last year the community celebrated the centenary of its parish, this year it has made significant progress in the renovation of the Bulgarian Cultural House, which has been in operation for sixty years, and next year it will be proud of the 100-year existence of the first Bulgarian school. We hope that today's holiday will contribute both to the deepening of Bulgarian-Hungarian friendship across borders and to the efforts of the Bulgarians in Hungary to preserve their culture and thereby enrich Hungarian culture. [[István Ikotity takes his place in the notary seat.]] Dear Parliament, It follows that the general debate on the proposal for a decision on the extraordinary settlement of claims by victims of the Czeglédy case will be launched. The submission submitted by Gergely Gulyás, Zoltán Bóna, Csaba Hende, Gyula Budai, István Németh Szilárd, Fidesz and István Hollik, KDNP, representatives H/17788. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that during the general debate, the opening speech will take place, the speech by the representative of the government, the speeches by the lead speaker and the speech by the first independent Member. Further speeches by Members will be possible in the course of the debate. First, I would like to give the floor to Mr Gergely Gulyás, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2017-10-19-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The title of the proposal for a parliamentary decision also clearly defines the subject matter: the extraordinary settlement of damages for victims of the Czeglédy case. It is well known that an investigation was launched in May 2017 due to a series of frauds committed by a criminal organisation, the subject of which was that many young people were involved in student work at the Human Operator Zrt., led by Csaba Czeglédy. through a network organised by Csaba Czeglédy and his network of companies, however, did not pay their monthly members' income. According to suspicion, Human Operator Zrt. led by Csaba Czeglédy. Between 2013-16, the company network, organized around it, caused a financial disadvantage of HUF 3 billion to the state budget: HUF 1.7 billion in VAT and HUF 1.6 billion in personal income tax were not paid. Most of the school associations associated with Human Operator Zrt. did not pay the students' income in May and June after the student work carried out by the company. No one disputes that the prosecution, the finding of a criminal offence, and the imposition of a penalty fall within the jurisdiction of the court. Parliament has no task in this area. However, one thing must be stated: according to reasonable suspicion, in addition to the preliminary arrests found justified by the court, there is a criminal prosecution in which HUF 3.5 billion is the damage suffered by Human Operator Zrt. to the Hungarian State. have been associated with the use of interferon alfa-2b (see section 4.4). After knowing the order of satisfaction needs [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Why didn't you know him in the Esos case?]] and therefore the state debt precedes the employees' claims, so it is safe to say that only if the company had over HUF 3.5 billion in assets in liquidation, then there is a chance [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Disgusting, seriously!]] That the almost a thousand students whose salaries in May and June were not paid due to bankruptcy by the school association and Human Operator Zrt. would receive money; so they could obtain money if the company still had any assets. There is no chance of this, and the duration of this is extremely long anyway, and since it is those who are also protected by the Constitution, the youngest for whom the income from 20 to 120 to 150 thousand forints, which they have earned in May and June this month, is an extremely significant benefit, so the state can decide on their settlement as an ex-gratia benefit without further delay. We hope that, as a result of the parliamentary decision, the government reverses the order of claims in this respect, first compensates students from the state budget. We also know - and that is why I understand that although no other faction felt the need to be present, the Socialist Party is still represented in the debate - that Csaba Czeglédy was the leader of the joint group of the Democratic Coalition and Socialist Party in Vas County, and he was an emblematic figure of the Hungarian Socialist Party in the county anyway. Of course, criminal proceedings have nothing to do with this, but we believe that it is justified to explore whether these significant assets, with which Csaba Czeglédy damaged the state and young workers have been damaged by Csaba Czeglédy, have become party financing in any form or not. But this political aspect of the case, this Parliamentary resolution, gives rise to this possibility, but it does not ask the government to do anything about it, because it has either criminal relevance or no criminal relevance, if not, it can be the subject of a political inquiry. [[9.10]] But here and now, we must have a common goal: victims of a crime committed on suspicion, [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: In the case of Esos you were not so correct.]] Moreover, young people and students, working and not getting paid, can receive their income as soon as possible. We would like to ask the government to do so, so we ask all the factions, especially those who are involved in Csaba Czeglédy and, politically speaking, Csaba Czeglédy's principle friends, to give their support and vote in favour of this parliamentary resolution. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Anita Bering: You will be ashamed of this! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: In the case of Esos you were not so correct!]]
u2017-10-19-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Socialist Party Members! I ask you to take the opportunity to speak. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: We can't!]] I can't speak to you separately. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: It's okay!]] Your lead speaker will tell us for you. Thank you. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] We are in the Hungarian Parliament. I hope that's what they're saying. [[Anita Herring: Sometimes we think we don't!]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Talk about Esos, Mr Secretary of State.]] I would like to inform the Secretary of State that you have a 30-minute timeframe. Thank you very much. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Read the verdict, Mr. Secretary of State?]]
u2017-10-19-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If I wanted to tell you everything, 30 minutes would, of course, not be enough, because the activities of the Socialists in this area have a rather long history. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Oh, so many sins have been committed!]] It is already in the territory of history and historians if we quote, say, the Tochik case or such far-reaching cases; or the Key price issue, however, when politicians were not directly involved only by the moonyard in these abuse cases, which damaged the budget, the Hungarian people were damaged. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: What's wrong with this?]] We can also remember the case of János Zuschlag, who is already a member of the MSZP, as a Member of Parliament, who has devoted budget and tender resources to unclear goals and campaign goals. We can remember the story of the bear, from which we were able to compensate for the damage he had done in the headquarters of the MSZP. Who knows where it was uploaded and from what sources? If we hear such cases, we may have all sorts of suspicions as to why we had to and where we were able to fill them, or perhaps even today such a formation works. However, we may also recall the case of György Hunvald or Miklós Hagyó, who were also in this field in the capital, but the leaders, such as Ferenc Gyurcsány, may have been in the case of Fittelina; or we may also include his successfully rented, purchased summer house in the autumn, or the Hajdú-Bet case in relation to Gordon Bajnai's history. But the last time, László Botka, for example, came up with the possibility of certain relationships regarding the fall of Seviép. We could continue with Gábor Simon, who led a hunger march with hundreds of millions in his account. [[Anita Pringles: Roland Fengyi? Florian Wolf? Simonka?]] , also as MSZP Member of Parliament. Or you can think of Miklós Tátrai, who was recently enlisted, Zsolt Császy, who, according to Ferenc Gyurcsány's statement, went to prison instead of him because they suffer such martyrdom. And now Csaba Czeglédy's person appears, who even has the picture of the reason why we are sitting here today, and for which my fellow Members have made this proposal, who has not only damaged the budget, but also thousands of young workers, taking away the trust, the public confidence that those who do work will also get their wages. I very much hope that this initiative and subsequent government measures can help those young people who have practically worked their time and have not received their wages quickly. Who knows where these funds landed, and weirdly Ferenc Gyurcsány's identity comes up in this relationship system. You can see that there is also a Csongrád county involvement in this story, so somehow it seems to me that this process will accompany the story of the left after the change of regime with more and more actors. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Why didn't you help me so quickly in the case of Esos, Mr. Secretary of State?]] [[László Földi takes his place in the notary seat.]] Indeed, this case provides an opportunity for these young people to be compensated by the government, but there is also a legal solution to this claim that will be transferred to the damage management state, and there is practically no exemption from liability or financial claims for those persons, the companies involved. I thank my fellow Members very much for this initiative, because trust in the kind of law and rule of law that has been constantly strengthening since 2010 and which is the main objective of the Ministry of Justice and the government can be strengthened once again by this initiative and by bringing it to its success. In this sense, the government supports the initiative. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Fidesz rule of law.]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-19-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Bóna, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-10-19-5	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the floor. As is well known to many, Csaba Czeglédy is a representative of the Hungarian Government in Szombathely, who has served several legal representation of MSZP and DK as lawyers, and is under prior arrest for suspicion of fiscal fraud. Czeglédy from Csaba is not far from messy cases. Back in 2001, he was accused of tax evasion by the police when Czeglédy was in charge of the Ribus School Association. The office of the Rébusz in Budapest was also registered in the headquarters of the Republic of MSZP at that time. Csaba Czeglédy was sentenced in 2002 to a permanent suspension of 8 months due to the fact that in 98-99 Fictitious invoices were entered in the accounts of the nonprofit company at the Rebus School Co-operative, thus unauthorized deduction of VAT and reduction of their corporate tax payment, resulting in millions of HUF damage to the Hungarian state. In the current proceedings, it is suspected that Human Operator Zrt., which operates the labour agency led by Csaba Czeglédy. A crime organization built around it, between 13-16, caused more than HUF 3 billion in financial disadvantage to the state budget. To continue all this activity, Altus Zrt., linked to Ferenc Gyurcsány, received a loan of HUF 80 million. According to some press reports, it wasn't the only loan between the companies. Was it a regular loan? And if so, doesn't that give rise to business-like, unauthorized financial institutions? In addition to the damage to the state, Csaba Czeglédy's Human Operator Zrt., led by Csaba, was insolvent in May-June this year, resulting in nearly a thousand students who did not receive the overall payment of more than HUF 100 million, so Csaba Czeglédy, supported by the left to date, caused significant damage to young people. To this day, damaged students are waiting for their money in vain. Despite Csaba Czeglédy's promise, he has not paid their unpaid wages in many months, and it is expected that only after the long legal procedure they will be able to obtain the sums due. In view of this, the proposal submitted by Fidesz-KDNP calls on the Government to take steps to ensure that young people who have suffered damage pay their unpaid income on the basis of fairness. However, the prior payment of the claims settlement by the State should not result in the compensation being exempted from payment of the compensation. Following the necessary procedures, the claimant shall pay the amount of the compensation paid pursuant to this Decision to the State entitled by virtue of the assignment. [[9.20]] In the Czeglédy case, the Democratic Coalition led by Ferenc Gyurcsány and the entire Hungarian left have political responsibility, so it is justified to examine whether Human Operator Zrt. its activities had to do with the financing of the Balliberal parties whose representatives are still represented at the General Assembly in Szombathely. Ferenc Gyurcsány's name does not arise in the first instance in connection with prohibited party financing. Earlier, at a retail forum, he admitted that 20 percent of public investment funds had been reclaimed before 2010, and he said that this was at the top of political corruption at the time. In October 2013, he said at a podium discussion about his former party, the MSZP, that money migrated from many places, not very much from Europe. Where he wandered from, it's better we don't know. However, from the Czeglédy case, we may be able to find out how illegal amounts have flown and flowed into the black bank of MSZP and DK. Csaba Czeglédy is connected to the MSZP and the Democratic Coalition with a thousand threads. This close relationship, loans and the cashier's position raises the suspicion that the State and the students, at the expense of the injured, served the covert party financing of DK and MSZP. Now is the opportunity for the left to support a proposal that would allow the damage done to nearly a thousand students by their party mates and trusted people to be paid back in advance. We can also think of pensioners in Szombathely, László Fodor and his wife Ferenc Gyuk and his seventy companions. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, if you agree with the aim of the resolution proposal that the compensation for the students who are left alone be settled by the state on a fair basis, then please support the submitted proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-10-19-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-10-19-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal for a resolution before us is a political instrument, political hystericalisation and awareness raising, which is, in fact, inadequate to solve a problem artificially enlarged by lying statements. I think that my fellow Members, who are here in the role of the rapporteur, wanted to use particularly unworthy instruments. Of course, that depends on their conscience. I hope that the President will not reject me today because one cannot speak calmly and in accordance with the rules of negotiation of political culture, but I will try. Human Operator Zrt., led by Csaba Czeglédy. - record immediately at the beginning - it has not damaged more than a thousand students or young people, because between 9 and 13 June 2017, the vast majority of those entitled to do so, the thousands of people mentioned by you, have received their due wages in May, but you are already benevolently unwilling to talk about this. Then after Human Operator Zrt. its accounts were blocked by the NAV Crime Directorate, the wages which had not yet been paid in May 2017 were paid directly to those entitled to do so. By the way, I am surprised that one of the authors is not one of your great comrades, Lajos Kósa's comrades, who, on the other hand, is represented by his old friend, Dr. István Fiák, who, despite the fact that the Student'S Office has issued an MTI communication stating that there are currently 11 victims who have been able to fully justify their claims and have given the Children's Law Office a lawyer's mandate, well, this lawyer claims in the M1 News, regularly declaring more than a thousand injured people to be such a huge problem. Let us add and acknowledge that, of course, everyone's own life situation is one of the most important and serious situations in life, and the problems that arise in this need to be acknowledged. Of course, students who have not yet received their wages are absolutely outraged. But the political hystericalism that you want to draw on the Hungarian Socialist Party or the left is more than a face toaster. Let us also add that there are victims of ongoing criminal proceedings. In other words, the company's accounts were blocked, so the students couldn't be paid. I understand this very, very well-adapted proposal for a decision, but, let's just say, then we should have put forward a proposal for a decision to dissolve this particular criminal lock in this sense. Even if the allegations contained in the proposal for a decision were real, the parliamentary decision would not be a meaningful aid to the victims, since further legislative action would have to be taken on this basis. So if Fidesz really wanted to help the victims, they could have submitted a bill. Congressman Gulyás was able to write the Fundamental Law, and I do not think that a simple bill has caused him such a problem. If my Fidesz fellow Members really thought the problem was important, they should have tabled an amendment with a content that would allow wages to be paid from companies' accounts during criminal proceedings in a manner supervised by the tax authority. Unfortunately, I have to say that it would not be a big surprise for us, since Fidesz clearly does not hesitate to use students in need to achieve its own political goal in order to win next spring parliamentary elections. I think that this is the use of a genderless person - if I can use this unattractive Hungarian term - for vulnerable students and for the public in the country to be deceived and influenced by this matter. But if we respond a little to what the nationalist or the Fidesz lead speaker or the Fidesz secretary of state has said, let's see why this proves that this is a distraction. A number of cases could be mentioned when we could list cooperative cases with Fidesz involvement. Around the other social or employment cooperatives operating under the cooperative law, a number of scandals and attempts to withdraw funds have come to light recently. Well, I'm gonna start listing some of them now, too. For example, there is the HUF 1.6 billion extension of Flórian Farkas, where the employment co-operatives' programme of bridge to the world of work has been interrupted, i.e. the funds for the employment of disadvantaged Roma have been removed. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: It doesn't matter! It's okay.]] the way there is zusammen. Of course, I could mention your fellow Congressman Roland Mengyi's fine-made experiment. I'm sorry if I said your name, but I can't say Lord Voldemort's name, but in my defense, I didn't see this movie very much. In any case, Roland Mengyi wanted to tap into the program "The Model Program for Networking Social Cooperatives" with about half a billion forints. My fellow Member Bangóné has used the genre of Parliament several times, the means of interrogation, because he has no other means at his disposal now, well, he also mentioned to you the Eszost, the case of the First Hungarian Environmental Social Cooperative, where EU money and public money were stolen using mafia methods. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikót: It doesn't matter!]] This organisation has undertaken to employ under-qualified workers who are disadvantaged in an EU programme, and has also concluded contracts with them, but people have not been paid. They could not receive job search support because of their current contract. A total of 2877 employees were involved in this case and 701 workers were paid for their unpaid wages. In this case, the Wage Guarantee Fund paid the lost earnings to the victims. The same analogy could have been done in this case, but no, you are using this case again for political hystericalism, and you are trying to pin this case on the whole left. And then there are those former fidesz cases where we also didn't see the Fidesz representatives showing such a great deal of activity in order to solve the case. Let us immediately mention the Quaestor case, where the company's accounts were blocked and employees' earnings were not paid. 31 834 out of Quaestor-damaged, there are about 21,000 people still running for their money. You didn't want to do anything for this 21,000 people, and you're not willing to do anything, and you're even trying to push it away, as if it weren't burned on Fidesz, because you think Fidesz has nothing to do with it. It's an extraordinary Fidesz case. [[Dr. Gergely Gulyás: We made a law!]] Yes, Congressman, you have something to do with it. Then we could mention the Buda-Cash case, the DBR case or the Hungaria Securities case. These cases have taken place under your administration, linked to the fidesz economic backyard and the moonyard that you are concerned with. [[9.30]] Billions disappeared, tens of billions of forints of missing money, by the way, and yet you have not done anything to begin the compensation of the victims in these cases, the payment of compensation. That is why, as I have said, this case, as a whole, gives the impression that it is a solution to a problem artificially enlarged by lying statements, but is, in fact, an incompetent tool. Political hystericalism and distraction in order to keep people from talking about fidesz scandals. And by the way, it is absolutely outrageous when you try to make this thing look like it's about 3 to 3.5 billion forints in the current criminal proceedings around the company, as you have mentioned, let's say, in relation to questions about your fate, you're trying to prove it as if it came to the financing of the Hungarian Socialist Party or the Left. I understand the political intentions. I don't doubt that this is what you're going to do to the public in the election campaign, precisely to try to distract them from their own affairs. At the same time, we must conclude that it would also be a very simple solution to this case, if a bill had been tabled instead on how to pay victims from blocked accounts. That's not what's happening. We see, and we see that you are trying to do a political hysterical act here. What we're seeing is that they're trying to pin this on the entire left. Of course, if the company and even Csaba Czeglédy committed a crime, if they did do something that would not stand up, then we will accept it accordingly. But what we're seeing here is that, as the whole process is going on, and as your prosecution, the Fidesz-led prosecution, is doing procedural and investigative actions, it's quite facial toaster. Just Monday, I asked the Attorney General a question about how interesting it is that there is an ongoing leak from the prosecution in cases in which it is in Fidesz' interest to have a leak, in which they are not willing to respond even to public interest data requests. There could be a whole new or weird connection here, you know, to make you feel it, and you can see a lot of interesting contexts. Of course, as I have said, if the Czeglédys have made a mistake, the consequences must be taken into account. But until this happens, until this is established legally, not by the D.A.'s office, because you run the D.A.'s office, it's quite interesting that you're already interpreting what's going to happen here and what's going to happen. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: It is written.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, I think that, overall, this whole story cannot be supported, and that is precisely because you have come here only for political gain, just to deceive the public. Thank you very much, but I'm sure you can't support this in this form. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-10-19-8	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-10-19-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I was shocked to hear the last sentences. Because of the fact that this whole case may indeed be politically motivated, there is no way to support a thousand young people getting the wages they have earned. [[Dr. Csaba Hende applauds.]] It is clear that this should be supported. How can the government really be subject to criticism? I will give you critical opinions, too, but the fact that you, the MSZP, do not support with your vote that a thousand young people who have worked for their money get to this in some way after more than six months, I would add that I do not think it is irresponsible to support this. This is not responsible for political thinking. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Fidesz Congressman, As stated in the general explanatory memorandum to the bill, a series of frauds in a criminal organisation was discovered in May 2017, the direct victim of which was nearly a thousand young workers. The vulnerable victims turned to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and Speaker László Kövér for his assistance by the Association of National Interest Representative of Hungarian Student Enterprises representing their legal representation; in view of the time needed for investigative proceedings and the uncertainty that the assets of the companies used as an instrument of crime provide sufficient cover for claims, it is appropriate that the Parliament and the Government provide, as soon as possible, a compensation equal to the amount of income not paid by the injured youth. We fully agree with these sentences, and we should also think that it is morally unacceptable for people to profit by cheating students and young people who are trying to earn their first income. However, what you are doing in the Czeglédy case, my fellow Members, my fellow Members of the Fidesz, is simply a hypocritical thing. You're trying to frame this case by having a bad cop, this MSZ, and there's a good cop in it, and that's Fidesz. Only if we take a closer look at your steps in this case, we'll find out that you're not cops, you're accomplices, again. [[Dr. Gulyás Gergely and Dr. Csaba Hende intervene.]] Yes, Congressman Hende, you must know very well why I call you accomplices, but I will also list what has been done in the last six months in the city of Szombathely, what has happened in connection with the Czeglédy case. They just did it a little differently than they usually do. Unfortunately, it is clear that a lifeless, slow, XX. We could not expect the protection of vulnerable young people from the party of the century, so you, Fidesz, have just submitted a proposal for a resolution. Then allow me, Congressman Hende, if you do not like me to ask you a few questions, which, if you answer these questions for yourself, you may find out why I am saying this, why I think so. Why was the present resolution proposed only now, in October? It's been almost six months since the problem came up. Admit that you are always one step behind, and you are only going after Jobbik, for example, because my fellow Member, Mr Gergő Farkas, has already issued a communication on 10 July, he asked for and considered that the damaged students should receive immediate compensation and, in addition to their unpaid wages, compensation from the wage guarantee. That is why we called on, once again, the government on 10 July to completely eliminate abuse of students. That was over three months ago. And your government response to this is to submit a resolution proposal after several months. If you guys were as professional as you say you are, you would have submitted at least one bill. Let's just say, when I think about it, I understand why they're not trying to push a bill through this case in an exceptional way, as a matter of extreme urgency. It's not about you and the possibility of corruption you've committed, it's about innocent students. So it's not that urgent, it's not that important. [[Dr. Csaba Hende: Shame on you!]] Let me also explain what happened in Szombathely. Here I would like to read the experiences of our candidate Péter Balassa, member of the local government, current municipal representative in relation to the Czeglédy case. On this basis, you will see the chaos in Fidesz and how the Fidesz MEPs in Szombathely defended Csaba Czeglédy [[Dr. Csaba Hende: You're lying!]] And I wonder why. I quote the words of Péter Balassa:. At the board meeting on Thursday, the atmosphere was about as dusty as an annual NB III ranking in the county. The tension was caused by the Czegledy case. Apparently, neither the Fidesz nor the left can handle the case of the Member arrested three months ago. The ruling party communicates in a mess. There is clearly no consistency between the local forces and the center. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So while the municipality was in session, out there Gyula Budai held such a coming out, such a, you can say, stand up comedy press conference, where he told everything Czeglédy, he told everything about the MSZP. In front of the press, he attacked this whole thing in a very competitive manner. And what happened in there? The board voted in a large coalition not to launch a conflict of interest and indignity procedure against Czeglédy. Because Péter Balassa submitted this proposal and voted against it in the Grand Coalition of Fidesz and MSZP Szombathely. They thought that there was no need to deal with Csaba Czeglédy in this matter, so it is neither incompatible nor unworthy of his role. [[9.40]] Maybe we should decide whether we're gonna get this man out of here or put him in jail forever. It would be good if they decided what they wanted to do with Csaba Czeglédy. Many also asked, says Péter Balassa, why I was involved in the opposition case of Czeglédy. The reason is simple. The Czeglédy case didn't start in June. Tamás Cseszkó, who had been converted from the left to the left for fiscal fraud, wrote his articles from the Centre months earlier about the fact that the name of the representative, the Human Operator, had been revealed in various cases, that is, the local Fidesz knew much more about Czeglédy's affairs than the average person. After the arrest of the representative, the board or the mayor should have initiated the indignity procedure on its own initiative, which has not otherwise happened, and it was also voted down when Jobbik suggested it. Since the city administration has not acted, my fellow Member was forced to act, but you disagreed with this. By the way, it was not clear to him why the local Fidesz Czeglédy Csaba was apologizing and why there was no conflict of interest and indignity proceedings, but there was more. After all, Peter Balassa wanted to call him back. You know, a very nice stadium was built - again: Viktor Orbán likes to build stadiums, health care is not okay - and a very nice stadium was built in Szombathely. Who has been elected president of the supervisory board of this stadium - a fidesz city administration, with a fidesz majority -? Chaba Czegledy. He was considered the most appropriate man. Then, when Csaba Czeglédy was arrested, and it would be the responsibility of this supervisory board to check what kind of spending there is, so as not to be accidentally, because it might be something like this - it doesn't usually happen in Hungary - in case it is overpriced, let's say, the expenditure on the construction of this stadium or anything else; they refused, you also voted against, together with the MSZP, the proposal that Jobbik submitted to recall from the head of the supervisory board. [[Dr. Csaba Hende: That's not true! They called him back! That's not true.]] Of course it's true. [[Dr. Csaba Hende: That's not true!]] Take a look, Congressman. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Look, Congressman, feel free to take a look at the Commission minutes in which Péter Balassa suggested calling you back. [[Dr. Csaba Hende: They called him back! They called him back!]] You, along with the MSZP, voted against this. [[Dr. Csaba Hende: They called him back!]] Of course, they called him back for a month and a half, not when Jobbik suggested it. They waited a month and a half, and then they called him back. Until then, I guess you and Csaba Czeglédy had to cover their tracks. That's the big deal. [[Dr. Csaba Hende: Shame on you!]] They put this man in charge of the same supervisory board. But tell me, Congressman, if you - and Gyula Budai in here - are constantly talking about the mischief in this story, by the way, indeed, indeed, it is misadventure, there are certain gold bars and certain Austrian accounts that have not been launched as Jobbik suggested, an investigation into this man's wealth. [[Dr. Csaba Hende: They're on the move! That's not true.]] Congressman, you're yelling at me right now, press a button. [[Dr. Csaba Hende: I pushed!]] I'm very happy to argue with you. [[Noise.]] You have also prevented a propertyisation investigation. You'll have to file a property statement to a congressman. You didn't approve this property declaration, you refused to investigate the Czeglédy case the way you were supposed to. It is clear that in Szombathely, you guys are huddled with the MSZP, working, getting involved in corruption cases, and protecting a Csaba Czeglédy twice as if a Fidesz congressman was suspected. I don't know how much you remember, there was a Fidesz congressman who was on a tape of you using drugs. Your own Fidesz representative was not entitled to the presumption of innocence, and quite rightly allowed that congressman... [[Intercoms.]] But that's part of how you even deal with these cases. But you know what? I'll tell you something else, if you don't like it that much. Do you know what else Péter Balassa, local representative of Jobbik, suggested in Szombathely? There's a $3 million budget for everyone. This was proposed four months ago to the local government representatives, and he offered HUF 1 million to each local government representative to offer at least HUF 1 million from his own budget, even to the local government, and to begin to compensate these people. He wouldn't have covered it all, but at least they'd have done something a few months ago. What did you do? He's been voted down. They said that this cannot be done by the municipality, it is not for the municipality to compensate for various such crimes. That's why it's false to be brought here now. Péter Balassa offered to give one million forints of his own funds. You did not support this. However, we will not give up, and Péter Balassa will continue to offer this offer, so he will continue to offer the victims 1 million HUF from his representative's budget. All in all, we accept your proposal for a decision, because we support every small step that leads to a solution, but we also ask you to accept the offer of our representative in Szombathely. Accept that Jobbik doesn't want to marry you, he wants to give you. Get used to it, because next year you will see this feeling often. There's one more thing we need to talk about during today's trial. And this is that what you're doing right now is just a surface treatment, a solution to one case. I'm telling you, this could have been done four months ago, but I want you to acknowledge that the whole system is a problem, and you're gonna tell me that you're not, because the school associations are working so well and everything is fine. But if it were okay, there wouldn't be cases like the Czeglédy case. So something's not right. In order to solve the compensation for these students now, it is a good thing, but don't lean back, because in our opinion, this issue should be dealt with much more seriously. This question is important because in school cooperatives, these young people who are preparing for life meet for the first time with the world of work. So not only do they suffer from paying their money or not being paid, they also suffer from the experience they gain at their first job. We believe that these young people, respect for the exception, are vulnerable in those school cooperatives where these things work well, they are vulnerable in their first job, employers abuse their dominant position in many places, and we therefore want greater protection, greater control and appropriate regulation. That's what we want to do. We would like in any way to establish a system that will provide adequate protection for students when they get to work, i.e. work at school cooperatives. In addition, Jobbik has been operating such a system for five years, but we are not still in government at the moment, but it is true that in six months it will change, and then we will do it centrally, but you can do it now, for this six-month period. Why don't you set up an opportunity or create an opportunity for young people who are on student work to complain to you? Let's have a place where they can announce that they're being violated in any way, because right now, there's no such thing. If young people could predict, so they could open up a complaint office, say, where they could call in and tighten up the check-up, this could mean huge changes in six months. I would like to ask you now, as I say, that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary naturally supports this proposal for a resolution, but let us be serious about this matter, so that there are no such Czeglédy cases, no school associations that can deceive students and abuse their dominant position. Both regulation and control and the whole system should be examined and a much more comprehensive bill should be put before the House, which will settle this issue once and for all. Once again, it is very important that students who take a job during their studies gain experience during their first work. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-10-19-10	Thank you. Dear Parliament, President Csaba Hende asked for the floor on a point of order.
u2017-10-19-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, The point of my point of order is that my colleague before me has seriously misled Parliament and the public. The declaration procedure was initiated by the competent committee of the municipality of Szombathely, which is still under way because of the gold bar found in Csaba Czeglédy's Austrian safe. Furthermore, on the issue of indignity, the very unfounded motion tabled by the better Member...
u2017-10-19-12	My fellow Member!
u2017-10-19-13	... it was rejected because it would require a final judgment that on this basis...
u2017-10-19-14	My fellow Member!
u2017-10-19-15	They're taking the congressman out of office. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-19-16	My fellow Member, I cannot treat this speech as a point of order, and I will therefore not open a debate, because I will not discuss this procedure here in the context of points of order. [[9.50]] Since further agendas are the basis for a debate to settle on a point of order, I say we do not settle it on a point of order. Honourable Parliament, as the last item on the agenda, the debate continues and I ask my fellow Members [[Anita Beringes: But he could tell us that we couldn't tell him! This is democracy, this is democracy to you!]] to discuss this on a point of order, so I will no longer give the floor [[Dr. Gergely Gulyás to Anita Heringes: We'd like to continue.]] I will no longer speak, the general debate will be adjourned, continued and concluded on this day. [[Anita Bering: You will be ashamed of this again!]] Dear Parliament, [[To György Szilágyi:]] I would like to inform you that I fully understand you. According to the agenda and our scenario, we will conclude this debate with speeches from the lead speaker, and then we will continue again as the last item on the agenda. So, Honourable Parliament, the agenda will be adjourned and we will move on to the next item on the agenda. Dear Parliament, The general debate on the draft law implementing Act C of 2015 on Hungary's central budget for 2016 will follow. The government referral is T/17578. T/17578/1. on the control of the implementation of Hungary's central budget for 2016 submitted by the State Court of Auditors Report No 1 is available on the parliamentary network. Dear Parliament, I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I welcome Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, who has arrived at the hearing. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr. Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, the author of the bill.
u2017-10-19-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, Honourable Members, The 2016 discharge bill before you, I think, is a true reflection of the positive trends in the transformations of the period behind us. As a result of responsible management, stable public finances and macroeconomic developments in line with forecasts were characterised last year. With an increase of 2.2 per cent of GDP, the Hungarian economy achieved above the average level of the Union, while the general government deficit was better achieved than planned, at 1.9 per cent of GDP. As a result of measures to strengthen the stability of debt financing, public debt decreased from 74,7 per cent at the end of 2015 to 73,9 per cent according to the EU methodology. Although economic growth was more moderate in 2016 than in the previous year, this is largely linked to the change in the cycle of the EU budget for 2007-13. Given that Hungary's economic performance increased by 0.3 percent of GDP in 2016 above the average level of the EU, I think that the opinions that the Hungarian economy is exclusively driven by EU funds can be refuted. Virtually all sectors have contributed significantly to GDP growth, whether it is agriculture, services or the performance of industry. In 2016, more than HUF 6200 billion was invested in Hungary. The overall positive contribution of private investments to the expansion of the economy in 2016 is positive. The stable pillar of growth was the growth of consumption by 4.2 percent, supported by rising employment, targeted tax reductions and low inflation to 0.4 percent instead of the planned 1.6 percent. Positive labour market trends continued in 2016. The number of people employed increased significantly by 2.6 per cent to 4.3 million, while the unemployment rate declined to 5.1 per cent per year, and the trend was favourable until the end of the year, the unemployment rate reached 4.4 per cent. The average gross monthly earnings of those employed increased to HUF 263 thousand in the national economy. The net real earnings calculated taking into account the family tax relief increased well above the expansion of the economy by 7.7 percent. The external balance has also been extremely positive. Last year, the 3,4% increase in Hungarian exports also exceeded the growth rate of imports, further increasing the high foreign trade surplus in previous years. Thus, last year's trade balance reached a record high of EUR 9.7 billion. As a result of measures aimed at the stability of debt financing, the foreign exchange ratio of government debt decreased significantly to 28,6 percent and the share of foreign holdings to 42%. I think this is also outstanding because, within the downward trend in public debt, the previous 50 percent foreign exchange financing rate has been reduced to below 30 per cent, as mentioned above. Overall, in the light of macroeconomic developments and facts, it can be concluded that the majority of the sectors of the Hungarian economy increased in 2016 and that the balance indicators remained excellent. Hungary's performance is recognised both in Hungary and internationally. Following a delay in the valuation of market investors, he classified Hungarian sovereign debt as a recommended category for all three large credit rating investments. Dear House, Economic growth above the EU average has enabled significant support for Hungarian families in Europe as well. To this end, the government further reduced the personal income tax rate from 16 percent to 15 percent in 2016 and increased the benefit of families with two children, leaving a net HUF 60,000 more than these families in 2016. He ran the home creation program, through which families could use up to HUF 10 million depending on the number of children. Meanwhile, it reduced the rate of VAT on housing from the previous 27 percent to 5 percent. With regard to everyone's wallet, he reduced the VAT on pig meat from 27 per cent to 5 per cent, and continued to extend the free meal for children. Dear Parliament, In addition to supporting families, Hungary's positive performance has also established the basis for further improving the situation of people from work and encouraging job creation. To this end, the government launched new career plans and continued to raise wages in 2016. The career programme of state officials was launched, so in 2016, the salary of the employees of district government offices increased by 30-50 percent. On average, employees of the National Tax and Customs Office received a 30 percent wage increase. At the first stage of the career of law enforcement workers, judges, prosecutors, court and prosecutors received a 5% wage increase. After the wage developments of previous years, a multi-stage wage arrangement was launched in the healthcare sector, and higher education teachers and researcher wage planning also started. The career of professional workers in the field of law enforcement and defence continued, with a further 5% wage increase after the 30 percent increase in 2015. There was also a 5% increase in wages for civil servants employed here. In the field of public education, not only the teachers' careers launched in 2013 and the qualification introduced in 2015 reported wage increases, but there was a further wage development of those directly assisting educational work, and there was a replacement for teachers working under difficult conditions. In 2016, the government paid particular attention to the moral and financial appreciation of pensioners. In order to increase the share of economic growth achieved for pensioners, they received a HUF 10 thousand Erzsébet voucher at the end of 2016 in addition to a significantly higher pension increase than in inflation of 1.6 per cent, i.e. 0.4 per cent. Dear House, One of the main merits of the efforts to build a work-based society was the six-year wage increase and tax reduction agreement concluded in November 2016 as an economic policy milestone. The agreement was therefore concluded last year, but its effects can also be felt strongly this year, also next year. From 1 January 2017, the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage were increased by 15 per cent and 25 per cent respectively, while the employer's social contribution tax was reduced from 27 per cent to 22 per cent. We can recall that if the Parliament accepts the government's proposal, this rate will be only 19.5 percent from 1 January next year, and it would be recalled that the corporate tax rate has also decreased to 9 percent from this year. The six-year wage agreement of November 2016 will therefore continue from 2018 onwards, with further substantial increases in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage in addition to tax reductions. [[10.00]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen. The government's economic and social policy objectives could be achieved effectively by the budget in 2016. The general government deficit was HUF 540 billion, the lack of a central subsystem was HUF 825 billion, while the government sector's deficit according to the EU methodology was better achieved by 1.9 percent of GDP than expected. The 2016 closure report confirms the effectiveness of fiscal planning scheduled for spring. This is also confirmed by the fact that, as a result of budgetary savings, a legislative amendment was made once, and in April 2016 the government proposed to provide an additional HUF 420 billion in resources while maintaining balance. This was how education, support for families, economic development, rural development, agricultural support surpluses and the management of mass immigration could take place, among other things. I would like to highlight among the amendments the HUF 91.6 billion in education, vocational training and adult education, and the HUF 17.7 billion in vocational training. In order to facilitate home creation, this budget amendment provided a surplus of HUF 50 billion. The Hungarian Parliament has also approved a HUF 50 billion surplus for the programme "Modern Cities"; but this line includes the increase of the investments of the National Rescue Service by HUF 2 billion. Moreover, in addition to the significant fiscal adjustment of 420 billion, the already mentioned real economic processes, in particular the significant increase in the number of employees, enabled the government to provide additional resources to different areas in the light of the budgetary situation at the end of the year, including educational, health institutions, civil and cross-border organisations and churches. There was also a source of economic development measures, industrial park, automotive development or capital increase for public companies, and the payment of the aforementioned Erzsébet vouchers for pensioners was also available at the end of last year on the basis of the budgetary margin. Honourable Members, Allow me to continue to talk about the sub-areas of public finances. The 2016 expenditure of the programmes and tasks of the central budgetary bodies and certain headings managed by the chapters was completed by HUF 8732.5 billion, which is HUF 96.8 billion more than the 2015 performance. The surpluses have occurred in a number of sectors, such as education, cultural and religious activities, health, welfare services, defence or law enforcement. This was how the additional benefits related to the preparatory work of the new Budapest hospital could be made or the investment of the University of Pécs, the continuation of the establishment of a new campus at the University of Physical Education, the investment of the Moholy-Nagy University of Arts and the additional support of the Academy of Arts - to mention just a few examples. The central budget spent considerable resources in 2016 to address the migratory pressure on Hungary. In view of the exceptional situation, a total payment of HUF 86.5 billion was made for this purpose. At the same time, a total surplus of HUF 64.9 billion has been provided to increase the effectiveness of counter-terrorism. I think that Hungary is one of the safest countries in the European Union today; thank God there have not been events in Hungary that characterize many countries in Western Europe. Dear Parliament, In 2016, about HUF 2097 billion of EU budget support was allocated to the beneficiaries. Most of the expenditure was determined by the advance payments linked to the 2014-20 budget cycle of the European Union, and the projects of the previous period were completed. Payments were increased by the amount of non-budget agricultural subsidies, which meant HUF 502 billion in direct income replacement allowances for farmers. All in all, it can therefore be said that in 2016, nearly HUF 2600 billion of EU aid was granted, as I said, in a decisive part in the form of an advance, which means that the real economic impact of this significant EU resource payment will arise from 2017 and the subsequent period. Dear House, Among the financial funds of social security, the management of the Pension Insurance Fund was stable and balanced in 2016, with a closing balance of HUF 12.8 billion. The total revenue of HUF 3089.5 billion was HUF 30.2 billion higher than the amount of the revised appropriations for 2016, resulting essentially from favourable economic developments and additional revenue from employment growth. Within the HUF 3076.7 billion expenditure total, the largest item was pension expenses amounting to HUF 3053.5 billion. Within retirement expenses, I would like to highlight the retirement form of women who can be used for 40 years of service, known as 40, to which the fund spent some HUF 205.3 billion in 2016. Pension expenses provided 2 million 166,000 people, including 140,000 women receiving retirement benefits below the age limit. In 2016, pensions increased by the already mentioned 1.6 percent, which further increased the value of the purchasing power of pensions due to lower actual inflation, continuing to increase the real value of pensions for the fifth year. As a result of the government's pension policy, the real value of benefits increased by 10.1 percent between 2011 and 2016, i.e. pension increases were substantially higher than the rate of cumulative inflation. Dear Parliament, The revenues of the Health Insurance Fund in 2016 amounted to HUF 2044.1 billion and its expenditures were completed at HUF 2133.8 billion, thus closing the year with a deficit of HUF 89.7 billion. Within the fund's revenues, HUF 1479.3 billion of contributions and contributions were made, which is HUF 62.3 billion more than planned. A small part of the revenue was the budget contributions at the level of appropriations of nearly HUF 415 billion. More than 27 percent of the fund's expenditure was used to pay so-called cash benefits and nearly 72 percent to finance benefits in kind. Among the benefits in kind, health care-preventive benefits provided health care providers with a further HUF 130 thousand to increase the monthly amount of the premium, to increase the financing of dental and protective care, to adapt so-called mobile wage elements for health workers to the previously increased basic salary and to support young specialists, to reduce the overdue liability of public health service providers and to implement health policy measures to implement their structural measures and to reduce waiting lists. In these areas, therefore, I think that progress has been made compared to 2015; we are thinking of either the wages of health workers or the financing of the institutional system. Dear House, In recent years, the scope and funding instruments of the domestic municipal system have also been transformed. The central financing of local authorities was carried out in 2016 under a task-based support scheme. Last year's main task was to maintain predictability and local stability, to strengthen fiscal conditions for management without operational deficits, to facilitate further catching up on small settlements, and to increase the quality of public tasks and public services. The municipal sub-scheme generated a budget surplus of HUF 285 billion, which is intended to serve the municipal development goals of the following years. Without the revenues related to the EU and Modern Cities programme to be used in later years, the local government balance amounted to nearly HUF 30 billion in 2016. This is confirmed by the fact that the municipalities managed effectively, i.e. without any advance payments made by the government from EU programmes or under the programme "Modern Cities', the municipal system was not only null and without any deficit, but also closed the year 2016 with a substantial surplus. [[10.10]] Local government debt stood at a very low level at HUF 42.5 billion at the end of 2016, with debt consolidation completed in February 2014. Honourable Members, Finally, please allow me to express my thanks to the State Audit Office for its work on the audit of the accounts. In its report, the Court pointed out that the implementation of the 2016 budget was in line with the legal requirements, and that the bill was a realistic presentation of the figures and information on the implementation of the budget. Dear Parliament, I think that, overall, we have a successful 2016 year behind us. Of course, we have a number of tasks ahead of us. While Hungary was characterised by high unemployment and inactivity rates a few years ago, the availability of skilled labour is now a barrier to the expansion of many companies. In order to stabilise the level of employment at a high level, wage increases should continue in the future and should be sustained and sustainable, we need to increase economic growth further. This requires increasing productivity, improving our capacity to innovate and improve our competitiveness, but I think that we have already achieved results in these areas. The economic policy measures that have been taken so far thus define the path that, on the basis of the 2016 accounts, will also contribute to further strengthening economic growth, encouraging and thus helping companies to improve their efficiency and productivity. Moreover, high and lasting economic growth is the basis for and ensures the growth of family income. The government's actions will continue to focus on the priority of work and families in the coming years, of course, while strengthening and preserving the internal and external security of our country. However, it is, of course, in our fundamental interest to preserve the stability of public finances and the reduction of public debt. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. On this basis, I would ask you to discuss the 2016 discharge bill and to support it later. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-19-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, author of the report. Mr. President, you have the floor.
u2017-10-19-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, According to the Fundamental Law of Hungary, the Parliament adopts the central budget and approves its implementation by adopting a bill implementing the central budget. During our discharge audit in 2016, we assessed the data contained in the discharge bill submitted to the State Audit Office and the reliability of the accounts and accounts underlying it. We analysed the regularity of the compilation of the 2016 annual budgetary accounts and the budgetary reports and residual statements that form part of them. We also checked whether the implementation of the Finance Act was legal and regular and that the audited organisations were properly managed with public funds. At the same time, we have checked the implementation of the public debt requirements of the Fundamental Law and the Stability Act. The central sub-scheme institutions have a significant impact on fiscal sustainability and the quality of government wealth management, and therefore it is important to ensure that their public use is regular, transparent and accountable. This is a prerequisite for the efficient and efficient allocation of resources and for the effective performance of their tasks by the budgetary bodies and for their operation to be effective. Dear Parliament, The State Audit Office found that the implementation of the 2016 budget was regular. Developments in deficit and public debt were in line with legal requirements and EU conditions. The discharge bill is well-founded and the data contained therein are reliable. The central sub-scheme of public finances for 2016 amounted to HUF 18 229.9 bn and its expenditure amounted to HUF 19 054.9 bn, resulting in a cash deficit of HUF 825 bn, corresponding to 2,3 per cent of national income, GDP. The ratio of the government debt to the total domestic product under the Stability Act decreased from 72,7 per cent in the year 15 to 72,3 per cent in the year 16 respectively. According to the Stability Act, the government debt in 2016 was HUF 25 620.7 billion. The deficit of the government sector by EU method was HUF 656.5 billion and 1.9 percent of GDP. The evolution of the deficit was in line with EU conditions. The government sector's debt according to the EU methodology was 73,9 percent of GDP at the end of 2016 - HUF 26 164,4 billion - compared to 74,7 percent in 2015, representing a decrease of 0.8 percentage points. Our final audit found that the implementation of the 2016 budget and the drafting of the bill complied with the legal requirements. In the draft closing act, the central budget of the central subsystem, the financial funds of social security and the revenue and expenditure performance data of the separate public funds are reliable. The bill is realistic and presents financial data and information on the implementation of the budget in accordance with the data of the reports. The main objective of our final audit is to support Parliament in its decision-making on the admissibility of the bill and to strengthen transparency and accountability in the management of public funds. This time, too, we have sought clarity and user-friendly editing as we wanted to make more effective use of the audit findings presented in the Court's report. In its territory, a short technical solution, which has been introduced in previous years, can be seen in its online form as well, of course, on the Court's website as well as the National Assembly ensures transparency. In recent years, Parliamentary representatives and the professional public have been calling for feedback from the Court of Auditors on the deeper context of macroeconomic processes. With this in mind, four years ago, we decided to prepare an analysis of the context of the implementation of the budget for that year in addition to our report. This work was carried out again this year, and the analysis was submitted to the Parliament together with the report. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The State Audit Office of Hungary has set itself as a strategic objective to develop a different approach, content and procedure to ensure more effective and effective control of the accounts, and to continue to support Parliament's work in adopting sound and transparent accounts. The State Audit Office renewed and published on its website a new methodology for checking the accounts in January 2015 with this strategic objective. The methodological renewal was induced by the new budget accounting rules introduced from 1 January 2014 and by the new audit principles adopted in December 13 of the International Organisation of the Main Audit Institutions, INTOSAI. The Court also carried out audits of the implementation of the 2016 budget on the basis of a renewed methodology, as well as the previous year. [[10.20]] The focus of the audit was, therefore, on the audit of the accounts of the budget accounting setting out the closure accounts and the data of the bill. The methodology for checking closure accounts is designed to give an informed opinion on the implementation of the budget as a whole on the basis of the audit procedures used. The audit provides a comprehensive and objective picture of the reliability of the data contained in the 2016 discharge bill. The audit covered the total revenue and expenditure of the central subsystem, including five main areas: central management appropriations, appropriations related to chapter management and European Union support, central budget institutions, social security financial funds and allocated public funds. In these five control areas, we checked the reliability of revenue and expenditure data and the regularity of the implementation of revenue and expenditure appropriations, budgetary accounts and budgetary reports and residual indicators forming part of them. In addition, we checked the regularity of the compilation of financial accounts and the balance sheet and profit and loss accounts in the institutions required to report to Parliament and in the management bodies of the social security funds. Our findings on this matter do not affect our opinion on the bill, they have been assessed separately, but they can also be used well when discussing other agendas of the Parliament, as background-based findings. As a result of the methodological renewal, the Court's audit of the closure accounts covered a hundred percent of the expenditure and revenue of the central subsystem for the 2016 budget. The State Audit Office of the State used so-called statistical sampling methods in the course of the audit of the accounts, in accordance with its rules, and accordingly drew the determination of the total population on the basis of an audit of the items selected accordingly. Dear Parliament, In the framework of the closure accounts, we have checked the implementation of the revenue and expenditure appropriations for the central budget, social security funds and separate public funds, the adjustment of appropriations, the establishment of a residual and the establishment of a control environment that underpins the regularity of the budget, the social security funds and the separate public funds. Our audit revealed conformity errors in all five control areas. The audit also revealed conformity errors in around one third of the audited organisations, linked to infringements of the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, regulatory deficiencies, incorrect exercise of management powers and non-compliance with time limits in the preparation of annual budget reports and non-compliance with legal requirements in the case of amending appropriations. In order to correct irregularities, the SAO called on those concerned by a notice letter. The Court's law, which entered into force in 2011, provided for the first time the opportunity to address the head of the audited organisation with a letter of attention in order to eliminate illegal practices and the misuse or waste of property detected during the audit. The head of the audited organisation shall assess the information contained in the notice letter within 15 days, take the appropriate action and notify the State Audit Office of the measures taken. The Court of Auditors may, in the framework of a follow-up audit, verify, where appropriate, whether the organisation involved in raising awareness has implemented the action taken. Thus, the Court of Auditors can also generate a change and improvement in the orderly functioning of public finances by means of a notice letter. As part of the follow-up this year, the implementation of the action obligations in relation to the findings of the 2015 discharge check was monitored by 64 organisations using this instrument. Our audit found that, in accordance with the provisions of the SAO Act, the information contained in the notice letter was assessed within the prescribed deadline within 15 days, with a few exceptions. On this basis, measures have been taken and their actions have been notified to the Court of Auditors. In order to draw attention to a total of 257 actions in the 64 awareness letters, the organisations identified 255 measures, of which almost all elements were actually taken. The percentage of measures implemented and partly implemented exceeded 80%. The utilisation of awareness-raising by the institutions of constitutional chapters, who are involved in the audit each year, was 94 per cent and 100 per cent in the management organisations of central management appropriations, as a result of annual regular monitoring. Overall, we can say that the organisations have complied with their action obligations in the awareness letter. Based on the experience of several years, it can be said that the vast majority of irregularities and deficiencies detected by the Court's audits have been corrected by the organisations concerned, thus making use of the SAO's audit work and the Parliament's intention, as set out in the law, to introduce the institution of letters of notice, which is also common practice in other business sectors, and also in the public sector. In order to ensure proper and responsible management, we sent a Presidential Notice to 56 audited organisations this year in the framework of the 2016 closure report. Of these, only 8 are the number of audited organisations we have been looking for in the last year, albeit on a different subject, but with a notice letter. In the light of the nature of the irregularities, it can be concluded that there was less control environment, i.e. the finding of shortcomings in regulation. The regulatory compliance of the control environment, which is a basic condition for normal operation, has been improved. However, further steps and measures are needed both in respect of compliance with statutory deadlines by budgetary bodies and by managing bodies as well as in respect of kept and detailed records to support annual budgetary reports. It should be noted here that our experience shows that we are initiating the five signing orders linked to the so-called accounts, which require quite high administration, and we initiated at the appropriate level of law preparation, to review whether it is really justified to apply rules that have been the source of such errors for 40 years, which have now exceeded the time, since the design of internal control systems could lead to a completely different type of billing and accounting system. This process is under analysis, and we are currently looking together with the Ministry of National Economy for a solution to clarify this issue. In order to support Parliament's decision-making work more effectively and effectively, the appendix to our report includes a brief summary assessment of the results of the audit of the accounts of the institutions required to report to Parliament. A summary evaluation of an organisation was carried out with the aim of informing the Members of Parliament about the reliability of the information contained in the report of the organisation, since the accounts of the organisations also contain information on the organisation's management. Dear House, I would like to draw attention to another technical circumstance in the context of monitoring the implementation of the budget. Last year and this year, according to the amendment of the Public Finance Act, the deadline for submitting the closing bill to Parliament was changed from 31 August to 30 September. [[10.30]] It could be said that this was a good decision, that more thorough work could be done, and I think that both hundreds of colleagues from the government, who participated in this, or from the staff of the Court of Auditors, who had more than a hundred people, could have been more well-founded and more careful in this regard in the last year and this year. During the planning and preparation of our audit, this deadline was taken into account this year, so our report on the implementation of the central budget for 2016 was published on 2 October. This date, like last year, coincides with the fact that the Hungarian Central Statistical Office will publish the so-called revised EDP report on the deficit and debt of the government sector by 1 October in accordance with the relevant EU standards. I believe that this date match is not ideal, from a professional point of view, for the submission of the closing act, for the final conclusion of the data, and I therefore make the following point. The House Rules of Parliament state that Parliament is discussing the bill on the implementation of the budget together with the report of the State Audit Office. The Court of Auditors, taking into account, of course, the relevant legal requirements and the Parliament's working schedule, plans to prepare the presentation of the discharge report to Parliament within five working days from the submission of the bill on budget implementation and the publication of the EDP report in the first week of October. Obviously, we still need to agree on this, but just so that transparency, clear documents and Parliament's debate do not lead to differences in these two already last year and this year - it is true that now these were more favourable data than they originally seemed - I still think this is a matter of consideration to improve transparency. This deadline for submission at the beginning of October is also planned for the submission of the closing bill at the end of August, and we recommend applying it to the SAO report. I am convinced that this schedule supports the work of the Parliament and contributes to the legitimacy of the parliamentary debate on closing accounts. Dear Parliament, As I mentioned at the beginning of my expo, we carried out an analysis of the macroeconomic context of the 2016 budgetary processes in parallel with our closing audit, thus fulfilling the SAO's statutory task of supporting good governance and the work of the Fiscal Council by carrying out analyses and studies in its responsibilities. I think it is important to point out that the data contained in our analysis reflect the pre-EDP report of 29 September, but I am already presenting the revised data in my current expo. Our study looks for the answer, not with the need for completeness, of course, about the economic factors that shaped revenue development, about the economic and social changes that budget expenditure has brought about, and about the relationship between the budgetary balance. In order to show the economic and social context, the analysis does not limit itself to the data of a single year, but we have also tried to draw attention to trends in a multi-annual perspective. The study was carried out by means of economic analysis and the links presented cannot be considered as one of the audit findings of the State Audit Office, which reflect the work of the authors of the study. One of the most important conclusions of the analysis is that, after the economic crisis ended, the Hungarian economy was on a growth path: it was marked by growth in 2016 and is expected to continue in 2017 and even in 2018. GDP growth was 2.2 per cent in 2016 compared to 3.4 per cent in 2015. This is better than expected at all expectations, however, this growth rate was in scale equivalent to the average economic performance in the European Union. One of the reasons for a lower rate compared to the previous year is the decrease in the amount and use of EU funds, which has also had a direct impact on gross fixed capital formation. On the other hand, there have also been positive effects on the lower use of EU funds, but I will talk about this later. On the production side, the growth of industry and the performance of the construction industry have been significantly lower than in 2015, with an increase in the value of agriculture and community services. Our analysis confirmed that in 2016, government programmes launched in previous years, so-called structural measures, continued to improve economic growth and employment. In order to promote economic growth, in line with the recommendations of the State Audit Office, it was a priority to reduce labour taxes and increase employment. Tax whitening was an important area in 2016 for the stability of the budget and for the improvement of competitiveness, which contributed to the extension of the so-called "sustainable whitening" model proposed by the SAO. What exactly does that mean? The development of tax collection procedures brings more revenue to the budget, which the government can use to reduce tax burdens and raise wages. This increases people's standard of living and purchasing power, and also makes the Hungarian economy more competitive in general. At the same time, I believe that further opportunities are available to whiten the economy and to increase the efficiency of tax collection, which must be linked to a continuous, systematic and thought-out reduction of taxes and contributions to work. The government sector's ESA deficit, calculated according to the EU methodology, was HUF 656.5 billion in 2016, corresponding to a balance of 1.9 per cent of GDP. This figure was more favourable than the 2 per cent deficit planned at the beginning of the year and the 3 per cent ceiling. The fulfilment of the deficit ratio legislation was supported by a significant improvement in the general government's cash flow balance compared to the previous year, while the profit and loss assessment, corrections related to the revenue and expenditure of the Union programmes and the balance of entities outside the general government overall reduced the deficit indicator by 0.2 percentage points. It is important to highlight the improving trend in public finances over the past year. The positive development of the budget deficit was significantly contributed by the positive impact of the structural measures taken years ago in 2016. For example, the previous reform of the pharmaceutical support system reduced spending in 2016 by HUF 350 billion, and the savings resulting from the tightening of disability pensions also exceeded HUF 300 billion. At the same time, nearly HUF 175 billion of the sector's special taxes were generated by public finances in 2016 and HUF 155 billion of revenue was generated from the application of the electronic toll system, thus ensuring the maintenance and good quality of technical infrastructure. In 2016, EU funding expenditure was HUF 2096,9 bn, while revenues were only HUF 641.1 bn, so the advance from the central budget was HUF 1381.1 bn, and other revenues amounted to HUF 74.7 bn. Obviously, this could only be financed by a strong economy and a strong budget. The expenditure related to EU grants exceeded the planned initial allocation by HUF 664.9 billion. By contrast, EU revenues, along with other revenues, were underperforming by HUF 177.7 billion compared to planned, thus providing HUF 842.6 billion more funds from the central budget than planned for the payment of EU funds, which had a negative impact on the central budget's cash flow balance. At the same time, the phenomenon supports the fact that in 2016, the Hungarian economy was able to increase its GDP by more than 2 per cent, 2.2 per cent, in addition to a significant decline in EU funds. [[10.40]] In 2016, nominal government debt growth continued, but, thanks to unbroken economic growth, debt ratios in relation to the GDP ratio, according to the domestic and EU methodology, improved compared to the previous year. In 2016, a positive increase in the share of HUF assets continued to be observed in the change in the structure of the public debt. In the composition of the forint debt, the volume of bond issuance increased, the government bonds and the short-term sovereign debt at that time also came to the fore, typically relying on domestic savings. Maintaining current trends, the foreign exchange ratio of government debt compared to the extremely dangerous state in 2011 could decrease by the end of 2018 to close to the less vulnerable 22 percent, resulting in a significant reduction in the exposure of the Hungarian economy. Expenditure on government debt management accounted for 3.3 percent of GDP in 2016, which was less than 0.4 percentage points in 2015. Overall, higher debt figures could be covered by lower nominal and specific expenditures. The favourable process was due to Hungary's improved international perception, favourable conditions on the financial market and predictable changes in public finances, deficits and sovereign debt developments. The revenues of the central subsystem exceeded overall in 2016 compared to the modified appropriations. On the one hand, the payments made by entities, the public, interest income, other revenue and other Union revenues exceeded the planned value. On the other hand, EU support for chapter-led appropriations, consumption taxes and public wealth payments have been underachieved. This again draws attention to the dilemmas relating to the reduction of the general turnover tax, which are raised from time to time in different sectors and in consumer goods. I would also like to point out that VAT is an extremely sensitive area. Since this tax does not represent the largest increase in the revenues of the central budget, tax reductions of up to a few percentage points or a few sectoral areas could lead to a loss of up to a hundred billion revenues, while a tax recovery of the previous crisis is taking place now, that the State will pay the VAT back sooner than previously, from 75 days to 40, and that this value will continue to appear next year. , which will reduce the actual possibility of VAT revenues by up to a hundred billion more than the source of expenditure. This trend can also be seen from data in 2016 and in the first half of 2017, as there has been no increase in VAT revenues and no increase in VAT revenues compared to planned consumption. In recent years, during the audit and analysis of the budget, the State Audit Office has repeatedly drawn attention to the high level of the so-called centralisation rate. Each country's economy is heavily influenced by budget weight within the economy and by the degree of redistribution in relation to GDP. The centralisation ratio is the ratio of budgetary revenue to GDP, which decreased significantly last year. One of the important conclusions of our analysis is that in 2016 the growth trend of the centralisation ratio in previous years reversed and decreased by 3.4 percentage points within one year compared to 48.2 percent in 2015. In the development of these indicators, the lower use of EU funds is reflected in government tax policy measures and in the reduction of the tax burden on labour income. The change in the indicator is also highlighted because the significant decline occurred with a moderate increase in GDP compared to the previous year. In parallel, the redistribution rate also decreased from 50,2 per cent in the previous year by 3.5 percentage points in 2016, representing a redistribution rate of 46,7 per cent. The unemployment rate continued to decrease in 2016; the number of employees has been highest since the change in the system, and these processes will continue in 2017, according to the latest employment statistics. Last year, the Hungarian employment rate increased to 72.1 percent, which means that for the first time it exceeded the average of the Member States of the European Union. This is why we can say that there is actually a turn of competitiveness in 2016, not only in terms of growth, but also in other important macroeconomic contexts, there is a reconnaissance with regard to data indicating entry into European competition. In addition to the effects on the labour market, the development of actions has been influenced by a number of government decisions. The minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage also increased in 2016. Last year's e The average gross national income of full-time employees in Sténkee exceeded the previous year by 6.1 percent. This very dynamic, rising trend continued in 2017 and is expected to continue for the rest of the year. Several factors have had a positive impact on the development of household consumption, the most important of which are increasing employment, rising earnings, a reduction in the rate of personal income tax, increased consumer confidence and extremely low inflation. Households' financial savings have been steadily increasing since 2013 and a steady decline in financial liabilities has already been observed last year. So we can say that not only in the budget but also in the household budget, and at micro level, at the micro-level of the economy, at the level of families, there is a process of economic change that unfolds before our eyes in 2016. Savings are increasing, and to a lesser extent, but consumption is also increasing compared to income growth. By the way, this indicates a wise, economical thinking, as households seem to share their additional income, share it in terms of consumption growth and savings, and pay back their debts. The value of investments in the national economy decreased significantly compared to the previous year. This impact has been observed in particular for budgetary bodies, with a smaller reduction in the investment activity of enterprises compared to this. In 2016, the volume of exports increased by 5.8 percent and the volume of imports increased by 5.7 percent compared to the previous year. The external trade activity is also significant compared to previous years, now it was almost EUR 10 billion. In particular, the change in the external trade balance of services was positive, with imports increasing by 0.3 percentage points compared to the 4,9 per cent increase in exports. Economic growth was supported by a moderate increase in prices of 0.4 per cent and a stable low level of the central bank base rate. The international environment has also typically helped achieve economic policy goals, with significant players in the world economy showing signs of moderate growth. Honourable Members, After a long time, thanks to favourable budgetary and debt management processes, the debt rating recommended for investment until the second half of 2016 has changed to a stable category for Hungary. This has also made a significant contribution to strengthening Hungary's competitiveness. At the same time, the results of budgetary efforts have been less reflected in the different international competitiveness rankings. The reason for this is that government efficiency represents a low share of rating factors in measuring competitiveness and a much higher proportion of subjective factors and judgements. There is a further significant disadvantage for the country's economic competitiveness indicators. [[10.50]] I believe that by means of our work, the report and analysis which was published on 2 October and forwarded to Parliament and the Committee on Budgets, we will contribute to the favourable budgetary processes and support the Parliament's decision to adopt the discharge bill on a well-founded basis, based on the transparency of the budget as a whole. Our work is useful, as our experience contributes to the implementation of a fiscal policy that leads to sound and long-term economic growth. Finally, I would like to thank both the staff and managers of the audit organisations for their summer work, the year-round work and the efforts of my colleagues in the Court of Auditors. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-19-20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. I give the floor to Mr Tamás László, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-10-19-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! Another year has passed, and looking back on the past year, we can account for a period to which all Hungarians can be proud, since the work of all Hungarians is included in the good performance of the previous year 2016. This year, the government continued its disciplined fiscal policy and the state of public finances remained stable. In fact, in many respects, macroeconomic indicators that were even more favourable than projections were the year 2016 in line with the legislative closing act. For example, we can say that as GDP grew by 2.2 percent, the Hungarian economy achieved above the average level of the EU. As a result of the government's fiscal policy and favourable macroeconomic developments, the general government deficit in 2016 according to the EU methodology was reached at 1.9 percent, while the gross government debt-to-GDP ratio decreased from 74,7 percent in 2015 to 73,9 percent. The main strategic objective of the Hungarian government debt management is to reduce the debt ratio in parallel with increasing the stock of private sovereign debt and reducing the foreign exchange debt ratio. In line with this, the foreign exchange ratio fell from 52 per cent at the end of 2011 to 29 per cent and from 65 per cent to 42 per cent of foreign creditors. This has greatly contributed to reducing the country's foreign currency exposure and external vulnerability. These positive results are confirmed by the fact that last year, all three large credit rating agencies have brought our country back to a category recommended for investment, which has made debt financing even more stable. The stability of public finances is well demonstrated by the fact that the amending budget took place on one occasion last year, which was justified by significant budgetary savings. In the spring of 2016, the government proposed additional resources of HUF 420 billion for education, support for families, economic and rural development, agricultural support and the management of mass migration. Let me remind my fellow Members of the fact that during the socialist governments, the amendment of the budget was always equal to a tax increase and austerity, and they did not even need a financial crisis, because in the years before the financial crisis in 2008-2009, the state budget was not in order. I would really just like to remind you of some of the gaps in the socialist governments' pre-crisis period. In 2004, minus 6.5 per cent, in 2005 minus 7.9 per cent, in 2006 minus 9.3 per cent. I think it's important to recall these numbers from time to time to see where we started. Today, thanks to civil governance, the Hungarian economy meets all Maastricht criteria. In economic circles, there is now a debate about whether or not to introduce the euro, and when, if so. Such discussions continued before 2010, but they were not based on any basis, since the maximum of one of the conditions required for the introduction of the euro was if we were able to meet it. In fact, socialist governments have also made the historic mistake of encouraging Hungarian people and market players to introduce the euro as soon as possible, and I like it, I don't like it, but by floating the introduction of the euro, they have also contributed to the widespread spread of foreign currency lending, which we know where it has led. But let us return to the year 2016, to the very end of the year, when the favourable budgetary processes enabled the government to provide further substantial additional benefits. These included, on the one hand, economic development measures, such as automotive test track development for industrial parks and automotive development, and, on the other hand, decisions to improve living conditions, such as the Elisabeth voucher for pensioners and additional funds for education, health institutions, cross-border and civil society organisations. The churches could also obtain additional resources for their necessary investments. Here I would like to acknowledge and thank you for the careful planning done by the Ministry every year, because in recent years the budget has always been submitted and adopted in the spring, when there is still less evidence available, but this clearly has not affected the effectiveness and quality of the planning at all. I am convinced that this early planning will also contribute to the performance of the economy, since all economic operators know well in advance what they can expect in this year. I would note here that for four or five years now, we have always been faced with the situation where serious left-wing economists and analysts, considered to be moderate, predict the unsustainableness or over-optimism of the Hungarian economy and the budget. On the other hand, the fact that none of these predictions have worked in recent years, the Hungarian economy has performed well, and the figures have not been excessive, but have typically been overachieved. I'll just keep it quiet that these experts never once said, "I'm sorry, we were wrong." Hungary is now on the right track, as the structure of economic growth has become sustainable in the long term. Growth is supported by several factors at the same time. The improved income situation of households increases consumption, which was 4.2 percent in 2016. This is because more and more people have jobs. The number of employees increased by 3.4 percent last year, and the activity rate reached 70 percent. Exports remain decisive, as shown by the record level of trade surplus in the previous year. On average, prices increased by 0.4 percent, which was also lower than planned. Again, of course, we are not talking about some conscious underdesign, but we need to think of external circumstances such as low oil prices. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there is another reason why the budget has closed such a good year, and perhaps we are talking little about it, namely that the government has done a great deal to reduce the grey and black economy, to collect tax revenues effectively. Over the last seven years, the government has taken a number of measures to reduce the leeway of tax fraudsters and to create tax conditions that do not make the taxpayer interested in devising. One of the most important measures was the supervision of the online tax authority on cash registers, but the setting up of the EKAER system, the reverse VAT introduced in several sectors, the reduction of the VAT rate or the adjustment of the automatic market for certain products also contributed to a more efficient system of collection. [[11.00]] This has created resources for various developments, wage increases, tax reductions. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, in the light of macroeconomic developments and facts, it can be concluded that in 2016 the various sectors of the Hungarian economy were strengthened, while the balance indicators remained excellent. For my part, I do not wish the Hungarian people and the budget a worse year. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-19-22	Ladies and gentlemen, I have an announcement to make. The author has passed away and has no replacement at the moment. We will try to ask the rapporteur to come back, because there is no other way to hold this debate. So until then, I'd like to call for a technical break. Thank you.(Sunning: 11.01.11.13) President: Tamás Sneider Note: László Földi and István Ikotity)
u2017-10-19-23	Ladies and gentlemen, We would like to continue our meeting because I finally concluded that this is a government referral, where, if we take the house rules very strictly, there is no need to be a presence of the person or the head or representative of the organisation involved in the presentation, which is about monitoring the implementation of the 2016 central budget. Obviously, it is unfortunate that he or his deputy does not participate in this, but at the moment we cannot reach the President of the State Audit Office, and for this reason I do not wish to delay this important proposal for long, long hours or even days. I have therefore decided to continue our meeting with a view that, unfortunately, there will be no reaction to it unless someone from the State Audit Office comes in by then. So I now give the floor to Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2017-10-19-24	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This isn't the first time this is happening in this House, because maybe yesterday György Matolcsy did the same thing by telling us about his exposure and then leaving the room. [[Lajos Korózs: Shame!]] and then he did not participate in the debate, nor did he respond to what was said. Well, at least he left his vice president here as a hostage, and now it seems like that never happened. Maybe it's worth it to the fidesz majority. [[Dr. János Harghitai: Sick.]] Mr Vice-President, it is worth talking to your former fellow Member, perhaps to give this House as much respect once we discuss it, and to be here in this House, at least one hour, if we take this time, to listen to the comments that we would like to make on the basis of his presentation. I think it's the least I can do. And if, by the way, at any time in our time, the government had allowed itself to do so, you would have called for the end of democracy and immediately threatened us with suicide. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] But in order to get back to the subject after the interlude, allow me to make my speech as a lead speaker as well. Ladies and gentlemen, The final report on budget implementation is a moment of truth. In black, we find out what he said and what the government really did to Hungary. Although it is possible to have a success propaganda in the year before the election, it is possible to create a mood, even a war-incitement with Soros' plan, a barbecue, and its taxpayers spend ten billion to divert attention from the real problems of the country, but the moment of truth is when the closing report comes before the National Assembly and the Fidesz is forced to present the processes that Fidesz has supported and carried out. This budget, which was implemented in 2016, continued the policy of the Orbán government, which was far from serving the common good. In addition to the professional assessment of closing accounts, we cannot leave without taking into account corruption risks. What did we see? Fidesz was especially good for relatives, acquaintances, cousins and residential friends in 2016. For example, Pasa Park's Csetényi Csaba advertising agency closed a very good year with campaign ads, István Garancsi's Market Zrt. with new public procurements, buying online news portals and breweries for the Szemerey family, Andy Vajna's new newspapers, while Lőrinc Mészáros became richer with Balaton tourism. We have no doubt that all this was achieved with the Hungarian people, the Hungarian taxpayers' money. In view of this, it must therefore be examined whether the country, an average Hungarian family, has grown as much as these few fortunate friends, relatives and acquaintances. The numbers don't lie here either, they don't. The Hungarian economy was able to grow only 2.2 percent. The President of the State Audit Office has long interpreted the EU average as to how much better Hungarian data is than that, and it is always important in statistics to understand what is good or bad. A comparison has been forgotten: if we want to put it in a regional context, then it is quite certain that this 2.2 percent increase is no longer so good, as the growth in neighbouring countries has been higher in the last year. In view of the data, it is therefore clear that we are still the hosts, not only among the Visegrád Four, but also with regard to the Balkan region. Hungarian growth data was therefore the worst in the Central European region. However, in the case of Romania, it is becoming less and less important, for example, to say populist in this sense, that they will catch up with Hungary, since their expansion of 4.6 percent was twice as fast as ours. Moreover, Slovenia and Croatia, which had a difficult financial crisis, were able to grow above 3 per cent of GDP. We know that everything is the EU's fault, which is what they are trying to do now, because - and I would quote from the proposal - EU funds came more slowly than they assumed; this is what the President of the SAO referred to, which is what the bill states. However, they are already talking about the opposite in the explanatory memorandum, and they say that much more money came to Hungary in Brussels than could be expected, so a total of HUF 2100 billion of EU funding came to Hungary. [[11.20]] And yes, from this HUF 2100 billion, we managed to achieve a 2.2 percent increase - which, by the way, is lower than the entry - while the volume of investments fell by 10 percent. And that is what Viktor Orbán says, that the government has created an economic model that is developing even without the EU. He also says everyone wants to copy us. Of course, this can be thought of, while Romania also beats us after Slovakia, while the government celebrates itself with a success propaganda. The budget deficit was 1.9 percent, which is covered in blood and tears. It shows that the budget has mercilessly withdrawn funds from where the vast majority of society would give much greater resources, including from health, education and the social sphere, there are hundreds of billions missing. Unbelievable tragedies and problems are covered by this 1.9 percent budget deficit. It's black and white that they want to save money on welfare expenses, while they don't really want to talk about how poor people's lives are getting worse. In 2010 he spent much more on social security and pensions in proportion to the budget, even with the crisis, than in 2016. And this is what they want to show as a success, that, for example, pensioners are forced to work because it is impossible to make a living with a pension of 70-80,000 forints. Therefore, health care remains one of the biggest losers. Hospital departments are no longer able to provide permanent medical supervision, residents are on watch at night, and nurses are forced to take a second job, but more and more people are turning to Austria, Germany or England. The GP system is on the verge of functioning. There are areas that haven't seen a GP in years. When opposition representatives propose a transfer of funds, it is simply swept off the table by Fidesz. Instead of health, moving to the Castle, building stadiums and filling buddies' pockets is the priority for the Fidesz government. It's also a set of values. We also spend less on education in proportion than in 2010. There is a general shortage of teachers, not only in small village schools, but even in Buda districts, they would hire any specialised teachers. Meanwhile, there is the greatest fluctuations here, and it seems that teachers believe the facts, not the prognosis of success. So the safety of pensioners, health and education, these areas have lost most since the Orbán government came to power. But let's see what areas have won. Of course, in the first place, there can be nothing but the state itself. So there is no bureaucracy reduction, which you have said a lot. Never so many state ministers, so many state leaders, no political advisors like this. Moreover, John Lazarus and Nándor Csepreghy have acknowledged the failure in recent weeks. The specific part of the budget and of your economic policy, but it is a failure, is that the state is increasingly expanding in the field of the economy. It is not possible to say that this would be effective, but it is very expensive for taxpayers, because Hungarian citizens have to pay the big ones of the new national capital class, as you say. We can hardly say an economic sector that wasn't grabbed by a fidesz oligarch. Banks, construction companies, psychics, casinos, factories, hotels, just one example of their portfolio. That's what society sees. Of course, the state bodies led by the Fidesz people themselves always find everything in the best order. The 2016 audit of the State Audit Office, not surprisingly, welcomes the budgetary process. We should probably expect nothing more from the State Audit Office, since an ex-college, an ex-fidesz Member, was also at the head of it. There is no mention of the fact that in 2016 the Hungarian budget was declared one of the most opaque budget by the OECD's authorities. The government, by decree, can practically do whatever it wants with it, regroup it any way it wants, and in decisions, it transfers money to whoever it wants or to whom it is not ashamed. All of this can be done by the government without the permission of the Parliament or without a parliamentary debate. Excellent examples of this are the extraordinary government measures and the National Defence Fund appropriations. For you, this line of HUF 200 billion may not be that much compared to the entire budget, but it shows that you have built a country without consequences. They give you where you want, no control, no transparency, no professional preparation; it will be as the party interests dictate. Let's take a look at what your government was up to in 2016. The Prime Minister's Office gave itself 12 billion forints to move to the Buda Castle and to renovate the Carmelite monastery. I'm sure the Prime Minister's $3 billion study will be ready. The Ministry of the Interior did not dare to dream big enough before, so they asked for and received another one and a half billion in connection with moving to the Castle. The Ministry of National Development reported another HUF 6 billion for the later withdrawn Olympic tender, and HUF 7 billion for the preparations for the wet World Championship. Of course, these deficits have also been replaced by this amount. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs capitalized its total failing trading houses for billions in 2016. It is also worth noting that it was announced just this week that all African trading houses would be liquidated. To account for this African adventure, to assume responsibility, we no longer hope that it will ever happen, even though it is time. You can't be surprised that the Minister of Human Resources was also busy with the Buda Castle, trying to obtain artifacts for billions. But the head of the House of Terror got another $6 billion for the memorial year. What he spent it on, despite a whole range of public interest data claims, he wouldn't give it away. So much for transparency. Don't take this the wrong way, these items were highlighted in the bill by you, and you're probably the proudest of those items. To sum up, the 2016 budget reflected the failed economic policy of the Orbán government, built on a waste of EU funds, so the state became increasingly dependent on the economy, friendly oligarchs gained control over the most important sectors, and did so with taxpayers' money. On the other hand, the social security of pensioners in the never intended proportions of the Hungarian government is as low as in 2016, or domestic education and health care are maintained only by the commitment and vocation of those working in it. It is also very serious news for the future generation that they do not care about, manage or solve structural problems, so the low level of investment is already a threat to the future. Meanwhile, Hungary's financial resources are being used in a wasteful way by the government, but economic growth cannot be put on a dynamic path independently of EU funds. In view of this, the bill implementing the 2016 budget will not be supported by the MSZP faction. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-10-19-25	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to János Harghitai, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-10-19-26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Before I go to the final report on the budget, I would like to return to the unfortunate little interlude that meant the interruption of the meeting here, and only so that everyone is informed and, above all, the public is informed. I do not dispute Mr President's position or the position of socialist Members that he would be lucky to have a representative of the SAO here. But we are talking about the SAO - and let us be fair to them - who are usually sitting here with two people in every budget debate or closing debate; there may be two of them here, either the president or the vice-president. The president was here, he told me his expo, he's gone. The only reason the vice president's not here - I know he apologized - is because the vice president's sick, so he can't be here, because otherwise he'd be here. I know it's not an explanation for you, but for the sake of fairness, I'd like to add that. [[György Szilágyi: The concept case. I'm sure that's what they're looking at.]] Because I know this information, and I wanted to share it with you. And I'm telling you, we're talking about the SAO who usually sits through these debates with two people. [[György Szilágyi: Conception case. That's why.]] Yes, Congressman, I have been following this debate for 20 years, and you will have the opportunity to do so. That's why I told you, because I think it's fair. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: The president should be here!]] Turning to budget closure. It's okay if the opposition is critical, that's your job, that's perfectly normal. The President of the Budget Committee, who had just spoken, was critical. Only when he says his criticisms, should he say from the basic position that when he compares us with the performance of other countries in Central and Eastern Europe and puts us behind - which I do not share; otherwise, this comparison with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe is always correct - he should also look at the starting position from which the Orbán government starts its own budgetary thinking, and it is not just about 2016 that we are talking about budgetary years, thank God, unlike the socialists' budget, which has always been a large amount of improvisation. [[11.30]] So you must reach back, my honourable fellow Member. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] By 2008 [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: until 2002!]] By 2008 [[Attila Mesterházy: until 90!]] When your budget policy bankrupted the country. [[Dr. Zsolt Legány: And a global economic crisis doesn't mean anything?!]] Now, when I was listening to your speech, I was looking into what the press had written at the time. I can quote Ference Gyurcsány, who himself says in a Romanian newspaper: if we do not receive extraordinary support, then the bankruptcy of the state will occur. Well, that's where the budget process starts. You, of course, had another budget year after that, and I would add fairly that in that 2009 budget, you took the country a little bit from the bottom, from the bankruptcy of the state, but first of all by receiving extraordinary support from the financial world, because without it, it would have been a state failure. So that people who listen to us, without it, if it happens, there's no pension, because there's nothing to pay for pensions, and there's no way the country can pay the state's employees. We were in this tragic situation, and that is how we will take government from you in 2010. I always wonder if your lack of talent [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] I mean, it was the lack of talent of the government that brought this country here, or something else. I do not think that people who have ever sat in this ministerial horseshoe are so talentless in themselves that they can bring together such a problem, but they themselves judged the situation - I can quote Ferenc Gyurcsány again - that instead of government, it was pretend government, we lied, we lied, and we just wanted to survive. Now, this budgetary policy is over, Mr Mesterházy, starting in 2010. The thought is over: there is an abundance of money in the world, we will always have access to loans, we do not care about the country's long-term future, we only survive the moment - because you have continued this fiscal policy and it has bankrupted the country. It's been a pretty big tradition for many years. So when we compare ourselves with Romania and other Central and Eastern European countries, we also need to see that, on the one hand, in the socialist era, these countries were not indebted to as much as we were indebted to, in the post-system change world, they continued to have a strict fiscal policy there, the first Orbán government down to 52 percent of the government debt inherited from the past, and you set it up over 80. This is the initial situation, which if we do not say, then any comparison is false - and misleading the country's public opinion. From 10 o'clock in this country there is a completely different budgetary thinking, thank God for what you have done, and I also say - this is obviously not going to be said by the Secretary of State, because he is the owner of this area today - that the Orbán government, if you can consider yourself successful, will not judge you to be successful, I consider that if we succeed, all kinds of success, which is clearly a social success and can be measured there, is actually based on a consistent and rigorous fiscal and fiscal policy. If we hadn't been able to break with your thinking practice since 2010, then we could have built all of our activities on a hibernation, all of our activities would have failed. This consistent fiscal policy underpins the social policy of the Orbán government and creates opportunities. I could also tell you, because, of course, we are talking about 16 and, at the same time, we know that we are at the end of 17 and we know the budgetary processes of 17 and you, when you came to Parliament, heard news reports, the news today is that the Prime Minister, previously another minister, has stated that for the first time this year the country will be in a position to pay a pension premium. So, Honourable Congressman Mesterházy, we have come from the state bankruptcy to the salary of the pension premium. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes. Attila Mesterházy: Where is the 13th? monthly?! Why not 13. monthly?! Nándor Gúr: You promised me 14 months! Intercoms.]] The payment of the pension premium is the result of the country's performance, and it fits into this process, including the 2016 budget year; with which, with regard to the 2016 closing date, I would like to point out some of the important social policy objectives a little more logically than you just did, although you had the right to do as you were about to do, because it is clearly in your political interests. It is important to highlight in the context of 2016... Another thought experiment, looking back until 2010: what are these main stations, which indicate that Hungarian budgetary thinking is going in a healthy direction and therefore the Hungarian economy? I consider it such an important milestone that we have been freed from the influence of the financial world, our vulnerability to it, and today we are on our own feet even without the help of the international financial world, which is what we have had from the European Union since 2013, when we are out of the scope of the excessive deficit procedure. To be subject to the excessive deficit procedure, ladies and gentlemen and kind public opinion, it means that we are pursuing irresponsible fiscal policies, we are always spending more than we could possibly afford. This was typical of your period. [[Attila Mesterházy intervenes.]] Since 2004 since we entered the European Union. So this is the date 13 that we get out of the scope of this in the middle of the year, now, this is an important signal, I can say that it is an objective signal, because the European Union qualifies us that way. The same important signal - and this is already linked to 2016 - is that not only the international markets recognise Hungary's economic performance, but also the credit rating agencies, who are always cautious and always reacting later, but by 2016 they will be able to include Hungary in the category recommended for investment, coming from the world of Bóvl to which you have sent the country. [[Attila Mesterházy intervenes.]] In the context of 2016 - and I will talk about this - I consider it a very important signal that the country is able to agree on the wage increase process with the right partners in advance for six years, and I am talking about a very significant increase in the minimum wage and the minimum wage for skilled workers, and accordingly, in order to make sure that employers are able to do so, they will also receive significant contributions, so that they will have to pay less taxes and contributions to the budget. This will have long-term effects. But, once again, from the hasty budget, from budget improvisations to the ability of a government to look forward to six years in 2016, well, that's performance, gentlemen, and that can't be lied to. And of course, I mentioned that in 2017, knowing the budget processes, we will be able to pay pensions for pensioners for the first time, but hopefully not the last time. No matter how you explain it, it's an achievement. Not the performance of the government - the government is very decisive in this, of course - is the performance of the Hungarian economy, but this comes out of the Hungarian economy because the government has been pursuing a consistent and rigorous fiscal policy since 2010. It was important in 2016 that we were able to continue the tax policy that we announced in 2010, which means that, in addition to increasing consumption taxes at some point - I note that in many areas these consumption taxes have since fallen. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] - reduce personal income, wage taxes, as the Secretary of State mentioned here in the Expo, this was such an important step, with personal income tax falling from 16 to 15 percent. He mentioned it in the system of family support, and I confirm that this year there is 60,000 HUF more for one family due to tax breaks. We were able to launch and operate home-building support. Everyone needs a home, family house, apartments everyone wants to buy, up to HUF 10 million in support of this state. (Daniel Z. Carpathian intervenes. ) We were able to reduce the VAT on housing, building new homes to 5 percent, and this is obviously once again giving up public revenues to help create homes. And I mentioned that the taxes on consumption are also gradually falling, and in 2016, we did so at the child food and at the pig meat. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Don't say such things with 27 percent VAT!]] People at work, different careers: or new ones start... - new ones start, and the old ones continue. I'll start with the old ones that have worked before. In law enforcement, this was launched earlier, and the police's salary increased by 5 percent in this year, and even by the public officials at the police station. [[11.40]] In the pedagogical world we started the career for the first time, in 2016, in addition to educators, very important employees helped teachers to raise their salaries. 2016. At last, the first step is taken in the public administration, at its lowest level and at the most in contact with customers, in the case of walks, there were also 30 and 50 percent wage increases. There has been a significant wage increase for the NAV, 30%, and there has been a 5% wage increase for judicial workers, as well as for court organisations. But also in health and higher education, the careers that started in the previous period continued. Retirement. It's a very important interest, there's a lot of people, and there's going to be more and more of them living longer and longer, thank God, the people. This is clearly the case in Hungary, so it is always critical and questionable how we are able to provide for pensioners. By 2016, it was true that pensioners' pensions increased in real terms, so they increased above inflation, and we were able to pay an Erzsébet voucher of HUF 10 000. I can also mention that it is very likely that this can happen in the year 17 too. And what I have already mentioned, most importantly, because it really has a budgetary outlook, this is the six-year wage agreement, and today, at the end of 2017, we can say that it is clearly working. It works because an agreement, because it is not a government dictatorship, so that something like this will happen in the world of the economy from tomorrow, has been agreed by the government with the economic players. The economic operators have admitted that they have an interest in paying higher wages to the minimum wage employees, to the minimum wage employees of the skilled worker, to keep the workforce for themselves, because it is necessary, but the government is also helping to do so by giving up contributions. The outcome of this is clearly statistically measurable as to how this is achieved, as envisaged by the parties in the agreement; as this is achieved, it will therefore continue in the years to come. At the end of a budget, it should also be mentioned, and I do not mention this as a tragedy, that the 2016 budget was once amended during the year, in April, and there the government decided to distribute 420 billion surplus. We are not living in the same period as before, in the period when you were ruling, when you had to go into the budget during the year to make further cuts. This was about distribution of surplus in education, families, economic development, and this is an unfortunate item, but it had to be sacrificed, and not a little, in 2016 and 2017, because of the difficulties caused by migratory pressure that were falling on the country, we obviously had to spend significantly on these, in this area. As a criticism, Mr Mesterházy states that growth is modest in 2016. The deficit-to-GDP ratio of 1.9 per cent was achieved with an increase of 2.2 per cent. 2016 is an interesting year because you are always accusing us of kneeling down this country without EU funds. 2016 has just demonstrated how far this is not so. Because if there were no EU funds - because there were no - the country was able to do what the Secretary of State said that it would advance EU funds for 2600 billion. Obviously, this could not have had an impact in 2016, it was an expense, but there was no production behind it. Behind the issues of 2017 and 2018 is there. So 2017, if I could say that it is a narrowly taken Hungarian budget year without EU funds, with a little exaggeration, but this simplification stands at about [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Haha!]] , it stands about, and so we have produced 2.2 percent growth, which is better than the EU average. Obviously we know that in 2017, so this year we can pay a pension premium. Not only can we, we are bound by law to do so. We can do this because there will be an economic growth of over 3.5 percent. Therefore, the 2,2% increase in 2016 should be assessed in this way. It is not simply comparing it with Romania and other countries and saying that it is less than they are, and it is therefore a failed year. Once again, when we talk about Romania and other countries in Central and Eastern Europe, let us feel free to say that they are not looking at their own budget in the dire budgetary situation that we inherited from you. [[Attila Mesterházy: Baltic countries!]] I would like to say, towards the end of a next term, that this is only a matter of smiling history, but the budget processes cannot be changed in two weeks. Here there are bitter years behind us, and Hungarian businesses and Hungarian people have a bitter job behind the fact that we have been able to continue that process today. So when we evaluate 2016, we can clearly say that this is a successful year from the point of view of the budget, all segments of society must have felt this way. As with simple slogans, I do not like these, but we say: everyone has been able to move forward; but more importantly: 2016 has brought Hungary's catch-up to the developed world, and I think there is a good chance that this process will continue, because the country needs such budgetary thinking, and not the irresponsible improvisations that the country has experienced at your time. So I think that they will be wise next year, because next year the electorate will decide what kind of fiscal policy they think, whether they want to bring back the past, improvisations, irresponsible budget, conservative budget planning, predictable budget, consistent budgetary policy, the, as long as your blanket is worth thinking, and I could say a few more of these items. As students of us are sober people, and they farm in their own families, they probably also want the country's leaders to go further in this spirit. Thank you for your attention, honourable Members and gentlemen. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-19-27	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2017-10-19-28	Mr President, Dear House, I have had illusions that there will be a professional debate on what the closing report would otherwise be about, on the implementation of the figures for the budget period concerned and on how it will be done. But the fact is that, on the one hand, the rapporteur did not respect this debate as it should have been, and we have heard some amazing planning reports and party speeches from our pro-government fellow Members. I do not sympathize with the MSZP, certainly not with its economic policy, but I have not heard speeches in Parliament in recent years that are appropriate for this level of party committee meetings. It's pretty amazing. So if anyone here dares to say that the economic policy of this government was perfectly fine for all segments of society, it is simply lying! So, my fellow Member, you are not telling the truth. We can start from funds and statistical data: as long as the demographic winter in Hungary is as dark and deep as it is now, so as long as our eclipse is at this level as at the moment, it is already smiling to talk about any social, economic policy or even political success. But the thing is, if every segment of society had sensed your wonderful benefits, they probably wouldn't have voted with their feet, hundreds of thousands wouldn't have left this country. They didn't do this out of an adventure, but it's quite amazing that the government has no response to this brutal challenge. So at the moment we are saying that there are tens of thousands of employees missing from the Hungarian IT market, tens of thousands of people missing from health care are either working there or taking part in the working chain. We now see that people are missing from strategic sectors, because they have left Hungary, because in the economic and political climate created and created by you, they simply could not survive, despite their will. I understand your sweaty attempts to point back at the pre-2010 period, but it's almost ridiculous. I beg you, it's been seven years since it's been, and it's simply not credible. [[11.50]] Even the accounts before us do not reveal the basics. Their basic tasks were not performed by certain bodies, since it is a special Hungarian practice that we talk about the economic policy of the government. It will clearly be evaluated at the closing date, but here would be an accounting and legal responsibility for the government; it would be considered, in particular, a report by the Court of Auditors. This would be his most important product, but we see very strong shortcomings here. At the same time, I must allocate a few words to the growth rate of the economy, as this has clearly halted compared to previous years - the rate of growth already. GDP grew by only 2.2 percent compared to 2015 and 2.5 percent, and, of course, it was said not to mention that this is below the growth rate of the countries in the region, but not only that of the countries in the region, but also that of countries in similar shoes. Obviously, we are not comparing ourselves to Germany, we are not comparing ourselves to France, but because of the different bases, it is also difficult to point out that this rate of growth may be higher than that of developed Western European economies. In fact, if I were you, I would not measure ourselves to the Czech Republic in this regard, because there is a different economic structure, so much more advanced the economy, that this comparison has actually lost its right to exist. It would be worth examining this series of data without EU funds, without EU resources. After all, you can say here that Hungary has practically brought down a year when the impact of EU funds has hardly been achieved. The thing is, the numbers are different. In view of the period concerned, according to the numbers of EU statistics, EU grants contributed to around 80,000 developments in Hungary. I could spend hours teasing how many of these were completely meaningless, how many were those that didn't create meaningful, productive jobs. I have a lot of criticism in this area for you, too. For example, in terms of home creation, why hasn't EU funds been opened for basic citizens to renovate apartments while they could have done so, but you have limited this system to public institutions, but we must also note that without the EU umbilical cord, unfortunately - because I am not an anti-competitive, but - the Hungarian economy is not on its feet. Here we also see that the forecasts are 4.1 percent growth next year, 4.3 percent increase. The basics of this are missing not only from the material laid down, but also from the statistical line that we have been looking at since 2010, we see that 3.7 percent increase is perhaps the highest. This was also based on very serious spin-off effects, but fortunately we once had such an increase. The characteristic, on the other hand, is the data starting with 2, starting with 1, even minus. So these optimistic expectations may not be supported by facts and reality. However, what is still very strange about the increase is the ranking calculated on the basis of GDP per capita. What we see here is that out of 11 countries in Eastern and Central Europe, Romania, Bulgaria and Croatia joined only after 2004, so we are faced with another ranking where Hungary could not substantially improve its positions. What is more worrying to me in the long term, however, is the sum of the indicators measured in terms of the share of investment, as we are once again below 20%, Mr Secretary of State. You are a competent secretary of state, who answers fair questions, I add that you are in a minority, you are in a minority among the State Secretarys, but I respect your work very much, so I expect you to have a professionally substantiated answer on how to assess, in the light of the following eulogy, how 19.2 percent of the investment share of GDP is projected to be 20.6 percent and 21.9 percent in 2015. So what processes justify this? And especially in the years to come, what can we expect if there is once again a reduction in the share of investment? We also need to see that the management of public debt is much more modestly spoken of by my pro-government colleagues than in 2010 and 2011. I was sitting a few chairs over the previous cycle, and I remember their praises that the economy is on a growing path now, and we're going to increase the government debt. Socialists and you have said this by using similar rhetorical elements. It turns out that this growth is virtually impossible, and since then, the government debt continues to increase by an average of HUF 1000 billion a year. This is what we get the ripost, that it is worth looking at in proportion to GDP, because most operators are looking at it on the basis of this, and it makes its judgment on this basis. That may be true, I can accept it. Just as I see in the current budget - and now we are looking at the number of these - as long as I see that interest repayments are only over a thousand billion per year, we must conclude that nothing has changed with regard to the management of sovereign debt management, so we do not really see the end of the process. Secretary of State, there's a question of when we can grow out of this. 120 years? 160 years from now? You can draw the flow charts from the game to see when, with such, say, a reduction in GDP, it is possible to imagine that, let's say, the volume of interest expenditure is reduced to less than HUF 500 billion per year. But what we can see is that there's almost no way to get rid of this burden. Therefore, it may be appropriate to choose a different way of managing sovereign debt, or at least to consider this or at least to hold professional debates on this issue. What is, on the other hand, in the words of my fellow pro-government Members, is a mass of statements indicating an improvement in the level of employment, since you have committed a net counterfeiting here. So they faked the statistics, which is what they're doing to this day. We talked about this yesterday. They were even able to do what the socialist economic policy, which I did not respect at all, could not do, because in the years that they called the Social Liberal, they did not commit the insolence that student workers were included in the statistics as full-fledged taxpayers. The student workers, please. You also include those working only one hour per week in the same statistics. They are mentioned in the same line as taxpayers who spend 8 hours a day at work. It's okay for these people to hold that hoe or the end of the job for at least an hour, it's got to be encouraged and strengthened, but you don't have to lie. It is not necessary to say that these are equivalent jobs that pay taxes in the productive sphere of society, which are a major barrier to the revenue side of the budget, because they are not, so it should be true. The same statistics still largely include some of the Hungarians migrated abroad, so if we add these three manipulative factors together, we see hundreds of thousands of differences, and this hundreds of thousands of differences no longer support the government's statements that there would be a mass of jobs in the productive sphere. We also need to see that it is clear that the workforce has been diluted with public employment, because the social productivity of work has clearly decreased, not in my opinion, but in the indicators. The rate of productivity growth in 2016 is an easy-to-do figure, minus 1.1 percent. Thus, in the spirit of productivity indicators, Hungary's performance has decreased, and in the long term this will have the most impact on both our economic policy and our prospects for development, regardless of how real earnings have turned out, because I am very happy if they increase. So, let's just say I'm not a backup fan, but I encourage any government action that points to this. However, I also need to see that while the government is pleased that it is spinning consumption-type taxes in an amazing way, its intention to reduce taxes is very difficult to take seriously, since 27 percent of world record VAT is also included in articles in national strategic sectors such as child raising products or essential consumer goods that have not been included in this narrow circle, where at least some concessions have been made with regard to VAT on basic foods. This is still limited to a one-digit percentage of the consumer basket. So we can still say that, let's say, in the case of a retired consumer basket, a meaningful concession could not be achieved by reducing VAT on basic foods, so this should be fully implemented, not only in a cosmetic way. But what we see is that 27 percent VAT is not only a hotbed for different types of fraud, but it works against the whitening of the economy, it also maintains certain forms of the grey economy, but it is also an amazing burden especially for poor, difficult families. And we also see that, when the government praises itself for home creation, it is again a mistake, as we see that, in terms of richer, luckier social classes, let us say, the CSOK may have been a very exploitable form, perhaps such was the end-payment at a reduced rate of HUF 180, which, to this day, cannot be justified by why some foreign currency lenders can repay at HUF 180, and why others, the unfortunate ones, are almost at the market rate, i.e. around HUF 256, even if they took on their so-called credit on 155. So, after all these years, it would be appropriate to explain why this difference is justified. [[12.00]] But what we can see is that the mass of those who have suffered foreign exchange credit is certainly not in agreement with my fellow Member from Harghita saying that all segments of society could make one move forward. It was my friend György Szilágyi who said that, yes, thanks to you, those who were standing on the edge of the gap, because they left the FX loaners on the side of the road, tricked him into making a deal with the Banking League. While the process started in all the neighbouring countries, I do not think this is so funny, but as you think, so the process started to move towards the exchange rate in all countries at the time of admission, the only disgrace in Hungary was that a thousand billion-dollar mass was taken from the owners and credited to the accounts of the relevant commercial banks. Obviously, we're talking about a financial scam of the century. I'm very sorry that this administration is still assisting, or at least trying to ignore it. Obviously, there will be consequences, and voters will not forget that. We also see, when we look at this papyros mass, that we can still comment on the management of state wealth in the most part. Here we see shortcomings in the sense that, quite simply, the closing accounts do not say enough or say anything about the change of state assets. I could say the country's inventory is missing. We have been saying for years that we have no knowledge of the composition of family silver, even though this has been a long time, if I remember correctly, a commitment made in 2010. We can quite simply see that the number of facts of government wealth management is visible, not in a system, in a table, in a coherent way; I quote:. For the year 2016, the budget included HUF 231.2 billion in revenue, the size of which was determined by payments from sales. We all know very well what this means, selling and selling assets. These are explained, supported, economic recovery indicators, while, where appropriate, the outline of alternatives is almost completely lacking. What we do see, however, is that the government and the bodies investigating it were not so pedantic and so strict in terms of the total expenditure. We see that the total expenditure has increased by HUF 421.7 billion, according to the quote. Compared to this, the total expenditure increased by an additional HUF 2067 billion, an unprecedented amount. We see that this is a brutal problem from the point of view of budgetary law, because you have spent this amount without a parliamentary mandate. We see that, in due time, there has not been yet a budget amendment in relation to the fact that there is a remnant of this size, I would like to spend it on this or on that, asking the Parliament's consent to do so. No, you have beaten these hundred billion without the authority of the Parliament for any purpose or purpose. We also see that it would simply not happen in a German parliament, because without the authority of Parliament, the federal government cannot spend a single cent of the state register there. Once again, we have found a hungaricum that has an amazingly damaging effect on Hungarian economic processes, on public confidence as well. We also see that there are amazing overspends. For example, the revised expenditure allocation for Titles 1 to 7 of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade was almost HUF 120 billion and the actual expenditure was HUF 162.9 billion. So we do not know at all what kind of authority this HUF 43.5 billion overshoot was based on. We also need to see that, in the case of amended appropriations for certain titles of the Ministry, these items are identical, but not in the case of actual expenditure. Accounting discipline could not be taken as seriously as in other previous cases. The SAO's point of view is that the rational breakdown of government accounts on the management of public funds and budgetary expenditure has simply not been carried out. We have been debating the SAO for a long time. In the previous term, it was my fellow Member, László Nyikos, who very, very often suggested to you that the SAO is actually carrying out a type of compliance check, so, according to international practice, certain types of checks are simply omitted from his activities, he does not apply the classic financial control that is used and applied in Western markets. At least the definition of these compliance checks is vague, or professional discussions are taking place. I do not even mention that there are still hundreds of Hungarian municipal authorities that no one controls in any way in terms of financial performances. However, as far as the specific issues are concerned, we must say that the type of control, its conclusions, at least on a question-signed professional basis. One last very hard point is that it is also inexplicable that the State spent a lot more on itself than in 2015 and compared to what was foreseen in the Finance Act. In 2010 there was a trendy topsz that bureaucracy had to be cut, the number of participants in your apparatus had to be reduced, where appropriate increased, obviously this would have meant the same thing, but the reality shows that Hungary has never had so many officials other than ministers, who are supplemented by secretariats, cabins and external agents. It must now be said, from the perspective of all these years, that the government has lost the fight it proclaimed against cutting red tape. I'm not sure that's a problem. So if you could justify what performance this huge apparatus is here for, how many indicators, how much it has brought to Hungary, how much it has brought to the state register, then this could be a reasonable, rational decision, but it has not even been attempted. Until then, we can see that Hungarian bureaucracy is horrific in size through the masses of chief officials and employees, and of course it is against efficiency. We have to say, this whole chaotic figure, drawn from both the accounts and the SAO's document, suggests that this government could not achieve a meaningful shift or systemic change. But I could accept this in one case if we had fulfilled our national strategy goals, the deepest ones, so that the number of years expected to be spent in health would have increased in the case of Hungarian people if the number of living births had increased greatly. I am not thinking of moving from 1.25 to 1.43 percent in the fertility rate, as the age group of the Ratkó-grandsons and as the expected last larger age group spins out of the age when they have a high chance of having children, then these indicators will start to fall sharply. I hope not, but statistics are stubborn; even if they are falsified, they allow conclusions to be drawn. When the number of living births, let us say, leaves the hundreds of thousands, or at least in a tendency, is the fact that Hungary has gone up in this most important area, or that it can be lured home from among the emigrants with intelligent motivations and factors, say, hundreds of thousands of people, then I say that this is a budgetary policy, although it is what it is, in terms of the outcome, successful in at least a few areas. Unfortunately, I cannot say this, and I can only share my hope that all my fellow Members agree that our most important problem in Hungary is our population disaster. We should be subject to essentially everything and to the slowing down of the emigration spiral. If we are already home, it is clear that an increase in the number of years expected to be spent in health could be the other motivation that, if we can reach it, we can put to the table the Hungarian citizens so that we can at least give them hope for the future. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-10-19-29	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2017-10-19-30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The year 2016 was strange from a budgetary and economic point of view, there have been several important changes, and there have been many things that describe the wrong and harmful economic policies of the government. In 2016, the budgetary philosophy of the Orbán government was completed. This means, on the one hand, controlling the deficit and the nominal reduction in debt as a positive and, on the other, an increasingly irresponsible and opaque management. Yes, irresponsibleness is the most accurate indicator, I think, of which the economic policy in Orbán can be attributed. Responsible for spending public money, irresponsible for the future, spending EU funds, and irresponsible for managing our own resources. The transparency and auditability of the budget have been drastically reduced as they have allowed for transfers within chapters and free distribution of reserves. This happened several times, for example in December 2016, when 200 billion forints were distributed out of so-called leftovers. [[12.10]] And how this was done at the discretion of the government, I suppose I should mention just one example. For example, the churches received considerable support, but the church that did not perform according to the government's expectations, the Lutheran Church, which raised its word for, for example, the fallen, was strangely left out of these subsidies. This means that the budget, thanks to its early adoption, had to be continuously carved, quasi-substitution budgets. It's not a solid foundation, it's just some sort of line leader. Another important aspect of irresponsibleness is the way in which EU and, by the way, domestic development resources are involved. On the one hand, they regard it as a mere prey for their sacrifice in behalf of the country. Accordingly, they take it home, spend it on own and buddy projects, skim public procurements, castles, yachts, estates from these sources. Not only are entrepreneurs near Fidesz getting rich, but they are also specifically Fidesz representatives. The shame of the world is that two common thieves, Roland Mengyi and Flórian Farkas, are still in prison, but still in the benches of Fidesz. It is irresponsible to spend EU money because it does not go to future development. Even when it comes to support for education or innovation, there is no proper control, expertise, feedback. The country's human capital is not increasing, even the money for education is being spent. It is irresponsible to spend EU money because it is forced to do so. The primary consequence of the call for money is that less attention is given to getting to a really good place, making good use of it. The most economically damaging consequence of forced withdrawal is the twitching of the economy. Spreading resources for seven years under three years will put investments and demand on roller coasters. On the waves, businesses are expanding, hiring people, and then going downhill, they're going down, they're going to let you go. The market economy is cyclic anyway, and even by government means to strengthen it with amazing dilettantism and irresponsibleness. Of course, the ups and downs are mostly perceived by small and medium-sized enterprises, and they suffer. Multis and kissing oligarchs survive, with massive state support in general, as we have seen many times. The interest of a healthy developing economy would clearly be to reduce resources, both in the use of money and in individual applications. If it is known that a resource can be expected for years and is known for a high level of requirements, then an entrepreneur has time to prepare, prepare, create the conditions for successful use of the aid and apply when they are already at their disposal. This predictability is extremely important. Otherwise, what is going on today is: rushing to apply, unsubstantiated investments, forced investment, and a great deal of wasted money. But all these professional arguments are obviously also known on the government side, they just don't care. They are interested not in developing the country, but in winning the next elections. They believe that they can alleviate discontent through the artificial and temporary revival of the economy. They're throwing money around like there's no tomorrow. We hope, however, that they will not have any, but what will the next government do with this country if the EU funds run low by the end of 2018? We saw a taste of this in the year 2016 as well. The 2007-2013 funds could be spent by the end of December 2015 and lay down on it properly. I could also mention Roland Mengyi here. Then in January 2016 what happened? It seems to have been cut off; the government has already forgotten to prepare for the launch of the new cycle that has been going on for two years, and even the operational programmes have not been ready. This resulted in a severe setback. In the first quarter of 2016, Hungarian GDP decreased by 0.8 percent compared to the previous quarter. Then, by the end of the year, the cash flow was boosted again, and the risk of recession was eliminated. But the annual increase was only 2.2 percent compared to 3.4 percent last year. The latter was also not abnormally high compared to our neighbours, our region or the fact that 7 percent of GDP was flowing into the country in 2015. In early 2016, therefore, we were given a taste of what is waiting for the country after 2018 because of the irresponsible economic policy of Fidesz, as regards our historical chances, namely that two Marshall plans of capital support were wasted and did not strengthen the foundations of either human or specific producers for the economy. Responsible and dilettious fiscal policy is also reflected in other areas. While the bureaucracy cuts have been promised since 2010, the Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office just admitted that they failed to do so. Of course, you didn't have to say that, we see that the Prime Minister's Office and other government waterheads are only gaining weight, it absorbs another tens and hundreds of billions, while in other areas of administration there would be a huge need for additional resources, such as courts, especially in economic areas, because there are not enough judges, there are not enough prepared experts. Only 8,000 of the foreign exchange credit lawsuits are pending. They're the ones the government let down a lot of, right? Now it's becoming obvious that the exchange barrier expired five years ago. In 2016, the privatisation of state land was irresponsible and even an assassination. In the past, 10 percent of the land was in the hands of the state. It could have used them to lease them under social, environmental and other rural development objectives. This would have been an amazing force and a powerful tool to save the countryside, but instead he used most of it to rent to his buddies, stooges, and giant owners, and then privatize him for the same. And in a law-breaking way, he didn't use it to buy other land, but to put it in the big bag of the budget - let it become a stadium! This is therefore the general picture of government budgetary policy. There are, of course, areas within the budget where there are plenty of resources and things are running smoothly; for example, state propaganda in the Ministry of Antal Rogán. There's a lot of areas with a shortage of resources. We said this when we negotiated the budget, and it is also necessary now, especially in the light of the fact that the government's margin of manoeuvre expanded by several hundred billion forints during the year, but did not spend it in these areas, but distributed it to different places where it was not necessarily necessary. One of the most sloppy areas that is handled most slowly is environmental protection. Everyone knows and sees that it's just a pain in the ass for the government, trying to get him out of the way with all the tools. We know what steps you have taken to achieve this, and we know that environmental authorities have been classified into government offices, and their autonomy has ceased. But now the professional autonomy of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office has also ceased, which has failed as a licensing and price regulation authority. Without real reasons, with false arguments, it still does not allow the construction of new wind power plants, it provides access to KÁT on a political basis, amazingly environmental-damaging projects such as a civil rubber burner, and it does not act against the extra profit of the State in gas trading. It was also described in the accounts, and I quote, that the prices of users buying under the universal service did not change during 2016. While import prices decreased significantly. In particular, there are serious failures in the price-setting agency for the inability of a waste-based public service. The charges do not cover the costs, the vast majority of service providers have become loss-making, the sector needs to be compensated by a hundred billion public losses. [[12.20]] The chimney sweeping public service is drifting into chaos, and the government, risking the lives of millions, has just taken action in this area. We can see what has been changed, and unfortunately, the effects of these can be predicted, which we have said on several occasions. I am talking about nationalisation of chimney sweeps, which are domestic small and medium-sized enterprises, which have been put in an impossible position. The transition, the creation of a new organisation, has cost a lot of money, and free money is not true, as taxpayers' money is used to finance this activity. The Agency shall not carry out regulatory work based on substantive analyses and inspections. It carries out political instructions, and in light of this, their annual budget of nearly 12 billion is unjustified. The government is irresponsible about public funds in terms of nuclear energy. Beyond the harmful and unnecessary Paks II. on a project, the chapter appropriation of the National Atomic Energy Office shows that the Office's expenditure is only partially covered by its revenue. This can be seen as a covert budget support for the nuclear industry. The Mining Office received HUF 2.14 billion to perform the tasks related to Mal Zrt. - we all remember the red sludge disaster - this is another item about the red sludge accident, which is an unjustified burden on the state. The money should be paid by the injured party. The target of building energy and energy efficiency is ridiculously low. Energy efficiency cannot be increased from HUF 1 billion. The green economy financing system pays minimum subsidies that are inoperative; for example, the one-day-old home heat program should only be referred to here. The use of money is incomprehensible. The same is true of the green investment system. The boiler exchange program for buddy companies is also a money flow in green robes. Refurbishing residential buildings and their surroundings 129 billion It doesn't make sense with a HUF frame. Improving energy efficiency also makes no sense by HUF 11 million; I was just talking about HUF 129 million. These are very, very small amounts, not even symbolic compared to the real need. I would like to turn to another aspect of the budget, where there could have been additional resources for moving to the Castle of Megalom or the Liget project, and this is the area of education. The results measured show that we are lagging behind both in primary and secondary education, both in terms of the required standards and in terms of European standards. The LMP continues to represent that at least 15 forints of each budget are to be spent on education, but rather 20 forints are to be spent on education. At present, this value is only HUF 10-12, and there was a year, we can remember it when it didn't reach 8 forints. However, it is not an unattainable objective to support investment in knowledge not only by 12 forints, but by one and a half times so much. Every extraforint spent on education will be refunded several times later, there is no better investment or investment in the world. Of course, this discovery is only recognized by the person who believes in the knowledge society and wants to do so. This can only be imagined within a framework where the governments are not only able to think over a four - year cycle and not just look at their own power. Obviously, this is not a profitable investment from this point of view. We imagine an education policy that provides the same high-quality education and training for all members of society, where we compensate for the disadvantages from home and do not push those who are a little behind average. They know that at OECD level, unfortunately, we are negative record-breakers, and we have the biggest remaining drawbacks from home. With proper care, innovative pedagogical methods, you can maximize everyone. That's what we believe. Hungarian education must be sent there to enable everyone to depend on the individual's talent and diligence. Young people should also be prepared to adapt to the changing needs of the changing world. Young people who are flexible, inventing themselves in every situation must be raised with an entrepreneurial spirit. This is what the knowledge society means. Of course, there are many professional steps to be taken in education policy, but it is all a condition of radical expansion of educational expenditure. With that kind of money, you can't get much more out of it than you do right now. It would be a great step forward, of course, to recast the National Basic Study Plan, to review the state textbook system, to restore public knowledge in vocational training, but these would be virtually the zeroth step. Every development, step forward, quality improvement can only come after this. Of course, this requires extra money. Education determines our future. For years, we have been saying that if spending remains at this level, we will essentially remain at this level, if we do not have a stronger and better quality education, then there will be no more living Hungary, no more competitive economy, no more sustainable development. The Fidesz government has been keeping spending on education low for years. The pseudo-wage process that he started was like pulling his teeth, and he changed his mind five times on the way, when he split it into pieces, when he released the minimum wage from the projection fund, and I could tell you that when he again divided the most recent details into parts. That doesn't make the teaching field attractive. The education system for strengthening the knowledge society only works with paid, respected teachers, and obviously with staff who help them and who are equally paid. It has just been said in the KDNP keynote speech that the salaries of teachers' workers have also been increased. Indeed, it was raised by 7 percent this year on a one-time basis, not tied to anything. Since 2008, the last time there was a wage increase, we can talk about 30% inflation. However, if we are talking about 2010 - their entry into the government, we can say that we are talking about 17 percent inflation, in comparison with the inflation figures of the last seven years. This increase of 7 percent is very, very low in terms of teachers' work, staff to support education. I wouldn't boast about it; that's what Mr. Harghitai did. Innovation also belongs to education and the knowledge-based society, without which there is no future for the economy, yet there is an unsustainable situation that the government would not only complement the funds received in the budget under the title of innovation contribution, but tap it, take 10 billion forints a year and spend it on others. And I don't even want to talk about it for a long time anymore, because it's not a very close concern that innovation should also be a predictable thing. It has been an example of schooling in recent years that its unpredictability - it is enough to think about innovation tenders - is a terribly prolonged tendering system and a payment system. There are still a lot of people waiting to pay for their innovation applications that have been won. How can you innovate by deceiving these systems, companies, institutions? Once again, in the area of rural development: the first and most important thing that the government is interested in is that henchmen should have a good line of things, no matter what, but they will receive as much resources as possible. Whether these developments are actually being implemented is less of a concern for them. The bill also described:. The actual payment was made by only HUF 34.8 billion, compared to the planned HUF 108.9 billion expenditure of the EAFRD under the rural development programme in 2016. Part of the reasons for the cancellation were the cumbersome start-up of the evaluation system and the repeated restructuring of the paying agency during the year, the maintenance change. In part, due to the failure to cut red tape, partly due to the unthinkable restructuring of the rural development institution system, very few EU rural development funds were allocated to the actors in 2016. [[12.30]] Among them, small and medium-sized family farms, supported by the government propaganda campaign, who should have received them, received extremely little. The total rural development framework for the current EU financial cycle is HUF 1300 billion. Small and medium-sized family farms, which are already poor in capital and credit opportunities, were therefore faced with a significant lack of resources in 2016. This is not surprising, the last seven and a half years of the Fidesz government's rural development activity is very low. Here, too, there is recklessness and incompetence. Despite the billions spent in agriculture, the success of the sector has not increased in international comparison, nor has the power of local economies. And the extent of migration from the countryside increased. At the same time, it can be seen that agricultural and rural development funds are being used by the government for political purposes, to large owners, Sándor Csányi, Lőrinc Mészáros's agricultural and food empire, and during most regions it is becoming more and more difficult. The fall is getting stronger. On the basis of the domestic product per capita, the line is closed by the South Great Plain and the North Great Plain of the seven regions of Hungary, where the sum of what is measured in Central Hungary is less than half. The government would have had a chance to correct it. The LMP has made countless proposals for redeployment and better use of budgetary resources. For example, we have proposed the specific management of the Great Plain, which covers most disadvantaged areas, the creation of an Alföld ad hoc committee. The government rejected that. Now you can see how much this is missing and how much there is a complex lowland water management and landscape management model programme, as well as the development of food processing, the promotion of higher value added agricultural production and the elimination of traffic anomalies in the lowland region. In the EU budget period between 2014 and 2020, only smartly targeted programmes could stop this region from breaking down, as could many other regions. But that's not what's going on. It's pointless money-making. The central problem in the countryside is the degradation of the road network. The budget law was amended during the year, with only 69 billion spent by the government on access to the countryside, work, school, and the long overdue infrastructure for access to a doctor. In 2016, the government spent 69 billion on refurbishing the national road network, of which only 568 km of road network was renewed from the budget, according to the Minister of State for Transport Policy of the Ministry of National Development. From this renovated 568 kilometers, there were 444 kilometers of main road and only 124 kilometers of side roads, even though the quality of the side roads makes access to small settlements difficult. The complete renovation of the 3-4-digit back roads linking small settlements and agricultural towns away from the big city has been waiting for decades. Because of the life - threatening potholes, the local people did not protest in the same place, but the government ignored it. On the wrong roads, you can drive relatively safely during the day, much slower than possible, but in the dark these side roads are particularly dangerous. The potholes cause a lot of damage to the vehicles, they often leave tens of thousands of forints in repair shops. Avoiding potholes also leads to potentially dangerous situations. Overall, much greater resources should have been allocated in 2016 to improve access to the countryside. The absence of this for years also underlines the anti-rurality of the Fidesz government's policy. The situation of the municipalities is also very closely linked to the fate of the countryside. In this area, there is a significant underfunding of municipalities, which threatens self-government itself in many places. I made a comparison with Prime Minister at the beginning of the summer: in 1990, municipalities received 18 percent of the total budget, and at the moment this number fell below 3 percent. Nearly 3,000 settlements do not have their own free-to-use sources, and the circle in which municipalities have real room for manoeuvre is constantly narrowing. In this situation, the uncertainty, potential for extraordinary subsidies and, in practice, the attachment to pro-government politicians appear to be particularly problematic when allocating subsidies. The budget for the development of local government tasks through the Ministry of Interior is also limited in relation to the needs, so most of the candidate municipalities are left out of it and will be on the waiting list at the most. Following the traditions of previous years, in 2016, no money was available to raise the wages of municipal civil servants. Finally, I would like to mention an area that is vital, which would be of paramount importance, especially today, but there is also irresponsibleness and incompetence here. The so-called investment promotion target, which is managed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is an open item. Actually, what you can see here is that Péter Szijjártó is not shy at all. The budget was exceeded three times, 30 billion instead of 10 billion forints, three times over. As we know, this framework is becoming increasingly in the hands of friends and multibillionaires, but from here it has received another 6.2 billion, for example, for the starch factory of Lőrinc Mészáros. Obviously, he needed it enormously, and he couldn't afford it from anyone else. On the other hand, an important area such as international developments has apparently been released by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, although according to the government propaganda, Hungary is helping to relieve migratory pressures by taking assistance into place. Well, it doesn't seem to be very visible anywhere from the budget, it only provides very high budgetary resources for international development activities related to corrupt projects of tied aid loans and projects avoiding Hungarian public procurement rules. This is what Eximbank's very high remuneration and capital increase is all about. It is clear from the budget expenditure of the Balassi Institute that cultural diplomacy has been completely released by the government and that it is using tools that will not have any relevance even in the long term. Thanks to the Ministry's reorganisations, foreign affairs no longer deals with the achievement of national political interests from a budgetary point of view. It is not named, but it is likely that this scandalous item, with which the Hungarian National Trading House Zrt. will be counted as an operating expense. its debt has been settled. I sincerely hope that we will get correct answers to all of these questions from the Secretary of State, because we get correct answers from him. It's not his work, we appreciate that, but rather the control that we see a lot of times on the part of the government. This accounts, in summary, are not acceptable to LMP because it reflects irresponsibleness. That is the word that best expresses the whole of this accounts: irresponsible. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-10-19-31	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, a German ethnic advocate, who has been invited by the committee representing nationalities. You have the floor.
u2017-10-19-32	Thank you. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschläges Nr. T/17578. über die Durchführung des Haushaltsgesetzes für Jahr 2016, Nr. C. aus Jahr 2015 - im Zusammenhang mit den Nationalitäten übergreifende Teilen - erörtere. Mr President, Dear House, Please allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position on the implementation of Act C of 2015 on Hungary's central budget for 2016 T/1757. Bill No.2 concerning the parts of Hungary's nationalities. Following the establishment of the mandate of minority advocates, I had the opportunity to express my opinion on the issues related to budgetary accounts for the first time three years ago, on 14 October 2014, namely the 2012 CCIV on Hungary's central budget for 2013. implementing the law. [[12.40]] Please allow me to recall some of the details of my comment from three years ago:. The 2012 CCIV on Hungary's central budget for 2013. We are in a difficult and easy situation at the same time in the course of the opinion of the discharge. On the one hand, in a difficult situation, because this comment was supposed to take place here in the Hungarian Parliament almost 20 years ago, so that almost two decades of failure should be eliminated as soon as possible in all aspects. On the other hand, the easy situation is caused by the fact that, unfortunately, we Hungarian ethnicities had little to do with the drafting of the 2013 Finance Act, so that we can give an honest opinion on its implementation without any responsibility. I stress: I am talking about 2013 and the previous years.1. The operational support of national minority civil society organisations and the support of ethnic cultural programmes have remained at a very low level since 2002 and did not cover a fraction of the legitimate needs.2. The resources available for minority mother tongue student camps were sufficient for two or three scoops of ice cream per minority child. 3. The national minority self-governments' support has remained substantially unchanged for two cycles, while binding legislative amendments have been imposed on them with significant additional costs. 4. The support of regional and local minority authorities, i.e. local minority authorities, has been frozen since 2010, with the introduction of task-based support, the overall operating aid has decreased to less than HUF 15 thousand per month net, and even a part of the smaller number of municipalities has been granted. Finally, I have expressed our view that we do not consider the previous practice to be fortunate and acceptable that the support of priority projects of a nationality depends on whether or not we have a joint ethnic intergovernmental committee with the mother country of a given nationality, whether or not there is a Hungarian nationality community in the mother country of a given nationality. Overall, it had to be said that the ethnicities in Hungary started from a very low level in 2013 and sometimes from a humiliating situation. In my speech at the time, I was able to highlight only two things as a clear positive, one of which was the provision of parliamentary representation of nationalities in Hungary, and the other was the changes in the rights and funding of the maintenance and funding of the ethnic public education institutions. The year 2013 was undoubtedly the most important and clearly positive change in terms of the fact that the support was significantly increased and normative in the case of the national public education institutions maintained by the national authorities, and here I stress that not only by the national authorities, but also by the local minority self-governments. This positive change in 2013 was not only important because it improved the funding of ethnic public education institutions qualitatively, but also because it made the conditions for education and education legally predictable and safe. At least in the case of nationality public education institutions maintained by national authorities. Finally, I have concluded my final statement in 2013 with this, and I quote: I would like to ask you now that, in the preparation and adoption of the 2015 Budget Act, which will soon be on the agenda, we have the opportunity to be responsible for the implementation of our proposals and comments, taking into account the 2015 accounts. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. After that, the central government laws of the following four years were adopted, in which Hungary's nationalities supported in 2014 even less than HUF 4 billion by HUF 2 billion in the 2015 Central Budget Act, HUF 2 billion in the 2016 Central Budget Act, HUF 63.4 million, and in the course of the amendment of the Act in April, an additional HUF 400 million in investment, renovation aid, HUF 678.1 million in the 2017 Central Budget Act, and finally HUF 1 billion 688,8 million in the 2018 Central Budget Act. Overall, this resulted in an increase in the sum of 13 nationalities in Hungary by nearly HUF 10.5 billion in the 2018 Central Budget Act compared to the 2014 budget grant of less than HUF 4 billion. In particular: 1. The support of national minority self-governments has increased by about 40 percent. 2. The operational support of local ethnic authorities has been increased by nearly 3.5 times and the task-based support has been doubled. 3. The so-called NMEZ-CISZ tender framework for the operational support of national minority civil society organisations has increased by more than 4.5 times in 2018. 4. The funding framework for national cultural initiatives, called NEMZ-KUL, has also increased by 4.5 times. 5. The support framework for native language student camps increased from HUF 30 million to HUF 400 million, i.e. more than 13 times in 2018. 6. In the central budget, a new additional funding framework has been opened for the local national authorities and the national minority institutions they have taken over, which is growing annually, already HUF 330 million in 2018. 7. The national theatres and the theatre groups playing in ethnic language will also receive support from a new additional framework, from HUF 130 million in 2018. 8. In 2018 more than 1 billion HUF will now be available in the framework of the renovation and investment of the national authorities and their national minority public education institutions. 9. From January 2018, the National Kindergarten Teachers and Nationality Teachers Programme will be launched, the first step being to improve the quality of the education of national children's educators, keep existing ethnic teachers on the field and increase their financial recognition, and increase the 50 per cent of the nationality allowance. In addition to this significant increase in the amount of national minority subsidies, we have been able to make significant progress by making legislative amendments favourable to Hungarian nationalities or by making the issue of NMEZ applications several months ahead, which is crucial in terms of the functioning of national minority organisations, their planning, predictability and the provision of liquidity at all times. On this basis, although I have already said it in the general debate of almost all four budgetary laws, but I am pleased to say it again in view of the whole four-year cycle: I would like to thank the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Parliament, on behalf of the 13 nationalities living in Hungary, for the increase in national minority support granted throughout the cycle, for the positive changes in Hungarian politics in relation to the ethnicities living in Hungary. It can be said with good heart that this change is on a scale that has not been seen in the last eight decades. In particular, we thank all parliamentary groups for taking matters of nationalities living in Hungary, regardless of their political affiliation, out of the topics of daily, often unworthy and harsh political battles, and the pre-agreed legislative amendments initiated by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities were adopted almost always unanimously. Please continue to maintain this good habit. At the same time, the fact that there is still much tension, problem and task to be solved before the 13 Hungarian nationalities does not contradict all these positive, truly historical changes. There are many tasks to be solved because after the serious omissions of the last seven to eight decades, we have started from a depth which, even positive changes in three to four years, cannot compensate from one year to the next. But the essence was ensured by this four-year cycle: we were included in the Hungarian Parliament, in the legislative process, and we were able to take our own fate into our own hands. We know what our goals are, and we are determined to achieve them for the future of our children and grandchildren, our nationalities. [[12.50]] Allow me to conclude the four-year parliamentary term from a budgetary point of view with a breakdown by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, already cited in the 2015 Budget Act. Also, Zitat von Johann Wolfgang von Goethe:, Toleranz sollte eigentlich nur eine vorübergehende Gesinnung sein: sie muss zur Anerkennung führen. Dulden heißt bezidigen. In other words, the tolerance can only indicate a temporary condition that should lead to recognition. Accepting in itself is an insult. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. From the point of view of acceptance, tolerance from a nationality, it's like they're just gonna tolerate it, put up with it. So acceptance is not enough, only acceptance is an insult in itself. We want more, we expect more - recognition! It's a condition of recognition, and it's based on knowledge. We think and are sure that this four-year cycle has made great progress in getting to know nationalities in Hungary and recognising them by the Hungarian government, the Hungarian Parliament. This provides a good basis for further successful work, for the encouraging future of Hungarian nationalities. On this basis, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary, in agreement with the State Audit Office's report, proposes to Parliament its report on the monitoring of the implementation of Act C of 2015 on Hungary's central budget for 2016. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties and the spokespersons.]]
u2017-10-19-33	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Peter Benő Banai.
u2017-10-19-34	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I feel that after the keynote speeches, there are some questions that I have to respond to. On the one hand, I believe that Mr Tamás László and Mr János Harghitai spoke factually about the implementation of the 2016 budget, the economic processes, and that there were also findings on the side of opposition groups that I agree with and that cannot be debated with. Let me say two words like that. Attila Mesterházy, Chairman of the Budget Committee, said that the moment of truth will come at closing time - I absolutely agree with him. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát said that it is appropriate to continue a professional debate - I also agree with that. At the same time, the Members then made statements with which I am obliged to debate and to strengthen the professional nature of the debate. One of the general criticisms expressed in the assessment of economic developments in 2016 was that this 2.2 percent increase is not high or even low compared with other countries, and that this increase is mainly driven by EU funds. I believe that the series before us and the public data relating to other Member States are factually rebutting these claims. Allow me to highlight three aspects here. The first is the often mentioned Romanian example, let's look at Romania as it grows. I ask that we also look at the evolution of the balance indicators for growth in Romania first. So it's easy to take a single item out of macroeconomic figures, but I think that when you approach the quality of an economic policy from the side of macroeconomic figures, it's how macroeconomic numbers are all coming along. In Romania, this increase is accompanied by a deficit of more than 3 per cent, rising public debt and a strongly deteriorating negative current account. These are the Commission's fact and forecasting numbers. So I think it is temporary to set growth to a high level, that if, at the same time, this is accompanied by a radical deterioration in the balance indicators, it will come back in the longer term for a given country, a given economy. We Hungarians also know from the previous decade that if growth is coupled with a high level of government deficit, rising public debt and current account deficit or, if you like, twin deficit, it can very strongly reduce the country's development later. So my first point is that if we discuss all the macroeconomic figures and look at Hungarian data in an international comparison, then I think that these figures are positive. Let me also quote specifics. Mr.Dániel Z. Carpathian said that we should look at the growth figures of countries in similar shoes and look at Western Europe. Some of the figures from the European Commission database: Estonia 1.6 percent to mention Baltic countries, western country, France 1.2 percent increase, Austria 1.5 percent, Italy 0.9, Portugal 1.4, Greece, with which we were on a starting line in 2010, experienced an increase of around zero percent in 2016. The second aspect that we are talking about, and what we cannot go on, is that, indeed, what was the initial situation from which we produced these economic data, and what was the situation that, in many respects, even sets out the public finances in 2016. Once again, let me say the Romanian example: Romania had a government debt of more than 40 per cent in the period 2010 and it was over 80 per cent in our country. This means that, while Romania had to spend around 1.5 per cent of its GDP on interest expenditure in 2016, this was above 3 per cent for us. If our public debt had been much lower, we would have saved 600 billion HUF with the same financing cost. Therefore, when we evaluate the 2016 figures, I think we should also look at the processes and trends. We need to see where we're going, where we're going, where we're going. And the third aspect I would like to mention is how much economic data is determined by EU funds. The closing account, I think, will help you with that, too. The total EU funding in 2015 and the related domestic financing were around HUF 3200 billion. This was the amount paid by the Hungarian State to the beneficiary organisations. This amount also decreased nominally in relation to the cycle change, it was about HUF 2600 billion in 2016, but the main part of the payments, some HUF 1200 billion, was an advance payment made by the State to the beneficiaries, which was in the accounts of the beneficiaries, but has not yet been made in the real economy. If only EU funds were to determine the rate of growth and look at the amount of EU resources in the real economy in 2015 and 2016, an economic downturn would have occurred in Hungary in 2016. But we can see that's not what happened. And I will reverse the situation: if only EU funds were to drive the economy of a given country, Greece would not have to say zero percent, we would have to see a high level of growth in the Mediterranean beneficiary countries and reverse this situation, there would have to be an economic downturn for the net contributor countries, see Germany. Since the figures do not show this, I believe that the quality of economic policy, however, basically determines whether there is growth in a country, whether there is an increase in jobs or not. EU funds have an impact on this, as appropriate, and have a substantial impact, but I repeat that, on the basis of the facts, it is not essentially EU resources that lead to a positive or negative range of economic growth in a given country. [[13.00]] The second general wording, which was said by opposition speakers, was linked to the financing of public debt. I would like to quote Mr Ikotity here, who said that irresponsible, dilettious budget policy has been struck in the financing of public debt. I think it is difficult, unfortunately, to argue with the facts of 2016 here - from the point of view of the Member - because, in addition to the credit rating agency's recognition of Hungary, we already see much earlier that the demand for Hungarian sovereign debt, which is an impression of economic policy and budgetary policy, I think one of the impressions, shows that the financing of Hungarian sovereign debt is cheaper today, we can sell sovereign debt more easily and cheaper than we can see in the case of Portugal or Italy, for example in Romania or Western countries. I therefore think that, in addition to credit rating agencies and institutional actors, market investors are the ones who appreciate the development of public debt and they have a positive view of the processes that have been and are expected. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The next general statement that I have to respond to is that, although it has been recognised from all sides that public finances have been disciplined and that public debt has fallen in proportion to GDP, some claim that this has been achieved by underfunded education and health. If I may, I would like to compare the figures for 2016 to the figures for 2009, since the implementation and exit of an investment has an impact on the investment figures in the sector, but overall, in both areas, it is true that education and health expenditures have not only increased nominally - and this can be seen from the closing accounts - but the financing of both sectors has increased above inflation in real terms. It is therefore not true that the favourable processes of public finances would have been achieved by bleeding out those sectors or sectors. I repeat: if we look at the total budget policy and economic policy since 2010 and compare the figures in 2016 before the Honourable Parliament with those in 2009, the financing of the two sectors has increased nominally and in real terms. Let me respond to some of the specifics that have been said. President Attila Mesterházy said that part of the budget resources are used in a critical manner in the sphere of government. I would like to remind you that, under the Public Finance Act, not only now, but also before 2010, the government decided on the use of reserves in a public decision. In this respect, I think that it is difficult to criticise the government with regard to the use of budgetary resources, because, in addition to the fact that the State Audit Office said that the accounts give a real picture of the implementation of the budget, and that the use of resources was overall in order - of course there is always room for improvement in the system of rules - I also have to say that the government moved within the legislative framework when an additional resource was created, it was used only within the legislative framework, in view of the deficit target and the reduction of public debt; and let us be glad that last year there was an opportunity for such additional resources to be used in addition to the stability of public finances. Mr Dániel Z. Karpat asked about the investment rate. Here again, we have to mention the already mentioned EU resource cyclicality, and let us look at the sub-numbers behind the investment rate. 2015 was the last year for the use of the 2007-13 EU resource cycle, with a high value of investments financed by public and EU funds, and a reduction in the level of these expenditure in 16 due to the change in the cycle. But if we look at the investment of the retail and corporate sectors behind the investment rate, then we see positive trends, and I think that this also shows faith in the Hungarian economy. As far as the future is concerned, if I look at the high level of retail savings, at a much higher rate than it was years ago, or if I look at the value at the level of 2016 and look at the EU's renewable, running-up resources, or at the investment activity of companies, I think that the investment rate will rise substantially in 2017 compared to 2016 and we expect that this will also characterize the Hungarian economy in 2018. Specifics. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs finds detailed information on the use of resources on page 149. Congressman Ikotity said that the surplus funds at the end of the year did not benefit the Evangelical Church of the churches. I can say, in fact, that yes, the Evangelical Church has benefited, and, as a matter of fact, this year-end use of resources has also been carried out by a public government decision. Some of the facts that have been said - perhaps, I think - in the context of error, I have to say that environmental expenditure is on a number of appropriations. Let us look at how much the state has made out of the EU programmes, and the state has also used the revenues from the sale of the CO2 quota for environmental purposes, so the scope of the 2016 environmental use is much wider than that mentioned by Mr Ikotity. In fact, the resources of the municipalities have decreased within the overall central expenditure of the State, but let us add that the structure of the public and municipal task provision has also changed. The state took part and even took full responsibility for the provision of education and health care, as well as social tasks transferred to the state and administrative tasks. This was followed by a change in the financing system. I read from the accounts that this change of task and the change in the financing system was also beneficial for the municipalities, since without the various advances, as I mentioned, the municipal system closed with a surplus of HUF 30 billion in 2016. As regards the investment promotion target at the SME mentioned by the Member, yes, indeed, as the Member mentioned, the use of resources was higher, since the use of the investment promotion target is linked to the plans of companies wishing to invest in Hungary and to projects supported by the government. There was a greater desire for investment; public finances were in a position to provide additional funding for larger investments; more investments were supported. I think that this is positive, because we have managed to maintain the stability of public finances and we can expect additional jobs and wage increases from additional investment in the longer term. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, regarding his comment on the state spending more on itself, let me say that the state expenditure in 2016 includes the wage increases that were made at the state institutions, such as the items of the wage increase at government offices or, for example, the increases in wages at NAV organisations. Overall, yes, the institutional system has also been transformed over the past period, for example by ministerial background institutions, and in these areas we have also been able to reduce public expenditure. But, I repeat, there are areas where we see surpluses, for example, wage increases, some where there were minuses to transform the operating system. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-19-35	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome. We will continue our work with a two-minute speech. Congressman Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP in two minutes, please.
u2017-10-19-36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Péter Benő Banai's questions about factuality will be answered in a longer comment, and I would like to point out a point from what János Hargitai has to say, which was basically about what positive changes have been made in Hungary in terms of the lowest income bands, here, my fellow Member spoke about the minimum wage, the guaranteed minimum wage. Unfortunately, it should be added immediately that this process, if any, cannot reduce the way workers leave. It is no coincidence that you cannot reduce it, because basically the increases were in terms of gross and less in terms of the net, in terms of the money that can be transferred into your hands. Just so that it is clear and clear, and that Minister of State Banai Benő should have a breeding ground for this conversation, I would like to point out that what I am saying now is that in 2010, when there was a change of government, for example, the tax burden on the minimum wage of the employer and the employee amounted to HUF 32-33 thousand, and now - 2017 - this amount is 73 thousand forints, more than 40 thousand forints more than it was in 2010. [[13.10]] The same is true with regard to the guaranteed minimum wage, this burden today was 92,000 forints, and then it was somewhere around 40,000 forints. In English: the government cannot give up its own greed, it takes the resources from where it should be given. If you had let, let's say, employers, and you hadn't taken them, and you wouldn't have matched the workers with an extra burden, then today, let's say, the minimum wage would be over 100 thousand forints net. This is basically your crime, your greed, your unscrupulousness. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-10-19-37	Thank you, too. But I don't give you too much time to breathe because you're next in the list of speakers that have been announced, Congressman Gúr. Here you go.
u2017-10-19-38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll just take a deep breath and start. We start with some factual figures. State debt. Government debt, December 31, 2016: HUF 25 899 billion. All I want to say is that, compared to 2010, this will cost 6,000 to 7000 billion forints more. Of course, there may be many other things to do in percentages compared to GDP, but if you look at the absolute figures, this is about HUF 6000-7000 billion more. The most important macro numbers in Hungary show that GDP growth, as Mr State Secretary said, was 2.2 per cent and the deficit is 1.9 per cent. In terms of investments, I understand the explanation, but it is not necessary to explain, but to accept what has happened, minus 10,6 percent is the proportion that we have to face, so there has been a 10,6 percent decrease in investment. If that's what we're starting with, I can imagine it, and I can see how they're trying to make a success out of all this. However, if we look at the opinions of serious economic experts, experts say that the structure of the economy is shaky. It can be said that what opposition politicians are saying is not true, that changes at the level of the V4 or the processes that are taking place in Europe, the things that we say are not true, but the facts are the following. Mr. Secretary. Whatever you are trying to put together in this story, in the Central European region, you have to face the fact that the Hungarian growth data was the worst. You know that the increase in Slovakia was 3.3 percent. I understand your approach to Romania, but I think that, in contrast, the rate that has been confirmed in terms of growth of 4.6 percent cannot be substantiated or explained by what you have said. But there is, say, Slovenia, where economic growth, GDP growth was also above 3 percent. I understand that you are trying to explain the magnitude of EU funds, the amount - you are talking about 2,600 billion, you are talking about one thousand to one hundred billion - that is directly integrated into the economy, it appears, and what influence this has or does not have as much influence as we think it does. But I have to say to you, Mr Secretary of State, if it is not 2,600, if it is not 2,100, but a thousand or a few hundred billion forints, the amount of money that has practically been integrated into the economy in the given year - 2016 - if we say that, I compare it to the number of budgets, I have not counted exactly, but it is virtually 5-6 percent. Even if I compare it to GDP, it must have reached 3 percent and economic growth was 2.2 percent. In this sense, I have to say that if there are no European resources that are not integrated into the economy, you are not able to account for a 2.2 percent increase, but that GDP is not growing but decreasing. So, from here on out, we should start thinking, and we should also think about why the falling of investments is happening, what is the more than 10 percent reduction? And, of course, I can also add that there are certain disappointments, or rather I say, with regard to industrial production, that many disappointing actors who are watching these processes have suffered. I, in a calm spirit, accept what Attila Mesterházy said that yes, this is the result of a dilettant and unpredictable economic policy. I can also practically confirm and unfold the part of it for you, if it will be necessary, how the withdrawal of funds from health care took place, how it happened from education, how it happened - I look at my colleague Korózs - from the social security system. So these, Mr. Secretary, can bring a mountain of papers to your desk, these are still factual figures. [[Péter Benő Banai: You can read it too!]] I don't need a mountain of papers. I know, I see, I've studied [[Péter Banai Benő: Read it!]] I've been studying things. Secretary of State, the state spends a lot more on operational functions, you spend a lot more on yourself than, say, the previous government spent in 2010 or before. But this is true even from one year to the next, from 2015 to 2016. Even in 2016, they spent more on their rates than in 2015. It is not enough for you to increase this spending trend in a moderate manner after a change in government in 2010, no, even year after year, further increase this process. So don't talk to me about responsible farming, people's problems, don't talk about it, please don't talk about it in advance. Rather, it will talk about how you intend to change the process of welfare functions, which has been about a moderate reduction in resources for welfare functions from year to year and compared to 2010. But you know that from 2015 to 2016, these levels have also decreased. So, again, what's important to you is you, your friends, your pereputty, your relatives and everyone else. What you don't care about is people. Where welfare measures should be provided through a multitude of social measures, this is not important for you, there has been a significant shift after 2010, less resources have been invested in this aspect in its proportions, but they have now been able to produce this from 2015 to 16. The budget for the tax reduction is practically the budget that has collected more taxes. It collected more taxes from 2015 to 2016. In 15 it is about HUF 17 500 billion, according to my memoirs, but I do know that in 16 it covers an order of around HUF 18 200 billion. What I am trying to say to you is that you should not talk to me about fiscal logic and thinking about tax cuts, but rather that you should try to make it work, which is in the interest of businesses and people in terms of taxes collected. But we could talk not only about taxes but also about fines, we could also talk about the penalties imposed. I can say with a calm spirit that there have been increasing findings and collections from 2015 to 2016 in respect of fines, fines imposed and fines imposed. While here, in the process between Parliament's walls, from time to time, we are listening to the multitude of preventive measures to be taken to ensure that entrepreneurs' access to air, so as to ensure better living opportunities for workers, and therefore to enforce restraint and prevention in this respect, there is much else to be done. [[13.20]] The factual figures and the closing accounts were reviewed by you, again, after you wrote in part, and then I can tell you that unfortunately there have been increases in fines imposed and collected from 2015 to 2016. They don't save money on themselves, but they do on welfare expenses. They don't give where it's necessary to give, and they put it right there, which is not in the interests of citizens, but in their self-interest. The level of bureaucratic expenditure on public operations has increased over average and has decreased significantly, I say, the level of welfare expenditure. In 2010 - in order to have a picture of it compared to, say, 10 - the budget expenditure will be spent almost 35 percent on social security preservation and improvement, while in 2016 this ratio reached only 30 percent. Do you understand? ! Where there is a helping hand, there are not increasing trends and trends, but rather declining processes. Once again, you don't see the bureaucracy cut you're so proud to talk about back in the day. You can see that with the mountain there are now secretary of state, deputy secretary of state. I can't even tell you their number. It's not a ten, it's a hundred-dollar scale, which affects those involved in this field. You can't see the bureaucracy cut. It is not apparent that, for example, in terms of the National Tax and Customs Office or the Hungarian State Treasury - and I could give you other examples - there would be restraint. No, we are faced with an increase in the use of operational resources. Secretary of State, you might want to deal with these. But in the economy, in the relations between the economy and the state, it is also worth giving some thought. You are creating a self-based expansion process. I'll just give you two examples. Let's say that you take into account the support of the MET business; or consider who the creditors of the companies belonging to the interests of Garancsi, Vajna or the Ripper were. I don't have to tell you, you know, the Eximbank. And let's see how and in what form Eximbank's recapitalisation took place. So, these questions should also be considered. However, in order to give some thought to the findings of the State Audit Office itself on the agenda, it is clear that, on the basis of the opinion of the President and Vice-President of the State Audit Office, which is unfortunately not sitting here, certain critical observations have been made. I say just a few institutions, just a few areas in which I think it would not be possible for such criticisms to be formulated: the Constitutional Court. But to tell you otherwise, the Presidential Office of the Republic? And there are many other things to mention: a multitude of organisations within the framework of the Curia, another ministry. I think that they are on the field, and in this area, order should be made, so that the State Court of Auditors will not have to write its sentences, with a pain in the ass, sweating these subtle thoughts. I have to add that the idea that our lead speaker, Attila Mesterházy, spoke about is perfectly correct and logical, i.e. that the government made use of the extraordinary government measures or the National Defence Fund in 2016 without any control and the possibility of a certain amount of press coverage. I'll give you examples so you don't have to look. Do you remember the work of preparing for Buda Castle's rehabilitation? Here it was a HUF 2.4 billion order of magnitude. Or questions related to the Carmelite monastery, with HUF 8.2 billion in cash. Or the redesign of previous architectural studies and plans related to the relocation of BM to Buda Castle in the order of HUF 1.6 billion. Or spending on funding the Olympic tender, HUF 5.8 billion. Or MLSZ's career development program in Budapest, HUF 5 billion. Or the 2017 World Championship Organizer Ltd. funding, HUF 7.3 billion. Or $4.9 billion in connection with the placement of the Washington embassy in a new building. Or the issue of the Hungarian National Trading House, with a HUF 1 billion grant. It was mentioned that on the African surface, virtually all trading houses are now closed down. Or I will return to the size of HUF 1 billion for the artifacts to be placed in the Carmelite monastery. Or he supported 6 billion forints in memory of the 1956 Revolution and Freedom Fight. Or 2.4 billion forints from the Prime Minister's Cabinet. The line is endless. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] But since the president rang the bell, I will finish here, and I will continue in my next comment. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-10-19-39	Thank you, and we're looking forward to it. Until this is fulfilled, we can listen to Congressman Lajos Korózs, MSZP. Here you go.
u2017-10-19-40	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to pick up where my fellow Member Nándor Gúr left off, but I am going back to the middle of what he has to say, where my fellow Member touched on the social field. All the more so, because I would like to deal with three items in this context, i.e. within the social field: family support, social benefits and pensions. It is well known from the publication or the compilation that the total national product has increased by HUF 1100 billion, compared to this, that the social care system has operated on such a residual principle this year as much less resources have been allocated to a number of items. If you look at the tables, you can see that you have less access to unemployment benefits, much less access to benefits and less access to social services. It has to be said that in the case of pensions and in the case of income-related maternity allowances, I would like to make a detour here, and then I would like to point out how this extra expenditure resulted from. Let's start with family support first. In 2016, the family tax and contribution allowance amounted to HUF 263 billion, which, although steadily increased in recent years, was reduced by the amount spent on the family allowance. Forint 319 billion was planned and HUF 316 billion was allocated to this item, and similarly less than planned for childcare, child care support, child rearing support, maiden name, and child protection support in cash and in kind. Meanwhile, maternity benefits were overachieved, the baby care fee was 8 percent, the child care fee was 11 percent. It is worth taking a short detour here, as I said, and I will try to shed light on how this extra expenditure comes from. This can also be derived from the justification of the Health Insurance Fund, as it says that, in addition to the payment of the childcare fee, it is possible to work for an unlimited period from 1 January 2016 without having to give up the benefit. In 2015, 1600 fathers used the lawn, and in 2016 there were 4370. We could ask what's causing this triple increase. Please, this is most likely due to women earning so little wretchedly that the family makes a decision that the higher-income father would rather come to pay her a higher amount of lawn, and it is the mother who works in the main job, because the maximum amount of the lawn in 2016 was HUF 155 400. [[13.30]] Compared to this, it should be noted that the case is still the smallest amount of the minimum old-age pension for the ninth year now. This is 28 500 forints, but in view of the fact that there is a pension contribution, 25 650 forints will be paid to the young mothers. These expenditure will be financed from the so-called National Family and Social Policy Fund for family benefits with the right of the subject. We know that this is mostly a virtual cash register, but still, for years this name has included a number of social and family benefits in the budget, I think XX. In this regard, it is important that the Commission take account of the fact that, in the light of the above, the Commission considers that the measures in question do not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and do not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) But I've caught my eye here on one of the findings of the State Audit Office. I think this is a very strong criticism of the budgetary institutions. He says the SAO, I'd like to quote it literally, I'm looking for it. that, in the case of expenditure under the title of Family Support under the National Family and Social Policy Fund, the audit found that there was a lack of reliability. The transfers of appropriations did not meet the requirements of the Accounting Act, despite the relevant decision on the determination of the benefit and the change in the amount of the benefit, no supporting documents were available for the clearance of the benefits paid. In the case of expenditure carried out under the article, it was a reliability error that, despite the provisions of the Social Act, no annual review of eligibility was carried out in respect of the support to replace employment. The total value of non-reliability errors in the area of benefits and grants under the appropriations of the National Family and Social Policy Fund exceeds the materiality level. In English: the organization's expenditure data are not reliable. I don't know what else to add to this. Let's look at the area of social benefits. In terms of the number of support for social and child welfare and child catering tasks of municipal authorities, it is clear that there has been a decrease in expenditure compared to the previous year. If we add the extra summer social meals by 2015, we can see that there is a decrease of more than HUF 8,5 billion: for district social tasks, i.e. central aid, HUF 70.5 billion was planned, but only HUF 64.7 billion was allocated to this item, instead of HUF 15.9 billion there was a HUF 14.2 billion in public health care, and it is worth noting that the budget line with twice a year's support for the regular child protection allowance in the world of aid, this applies to financial and in-kind child protection aid, with more than HUF 1.4 billion less than planned. Since care is fixed, we can only think that the number of poor children has been so accounted for, or that the number of right holders has decreased, but if there has been such a decrease, I don't know why this could have happened. It is also noteworthy that they spent HUF 267 billion on public employment compared to the planned HUF 340 billion. It is worth quoting the reasons for the proposal, the explanatory statement states that: . The municipal aid system has changed significantly since 1 March 2015. It is well known that several forms of support and care have been abolished by the government, regular social assistance has been abolished, housing support has been abolished, debt management services have been abolished, two municipal grants can be granted out of fairness, public health care, and the equity care fee has also been abolished. This appropriation is intended to cover the following expenditure: We're not the only ones saying that, this closing report is IX. It is also included in the explanatory memorandum to its chapter 1. After all, I don't know if the government can even say how much attention they pay to the poor. I have gone on the issue of social assistance at the district offices. I have a compilation that says that there are settlements in the order of 100 that have required extraordinary social support from the government. Please, it is clear that the settlements have requested aid to address the social situation, for example in Hajdú-Bihar county, in the order of 100 million in Szabolcs county, in the same order of 100 million in Borsod county. Of course, there are some weird things about this thing. It is not part of the last year's accounts, but here I note that if a city with Kaposvár county rights has to turn to the government to solve social problems, this is a rather spicy situation, as is the case when Hajduszoboszló or the relatively wealthy Szentendre turns to the government for help. I note this only because, of course, even if Szentendre is a wealthy city, the poor can live there, or if Hajdúszoboszló has a great tourist income, the poor can still live there, but I also think that if they hadn't changed the support system so quickly and didn't drastically eliminate the forms of care and support I had previously listed, then perhaps this situation wouldn't have happened. In the case of pensions, some unscrupulous sentences. In 2016, the pension rate increased by 1.6 percent, but in this chapter, which I would like to mention, I am more concerned with the so-called equity pension increase, a one-off allowance and the setting of pensions from equity. Please, the exceptional pension increase, which is commonly referred to as a equity pension increase, is estimated at HUF 700 million, with an estimate of 200 million for the establishment of an exceptional pension and 500 million for the provision of benefits. I looked at 66,771 people in 2016 applying for an equity pension, and 29,744 of them received a pension. I must also note that most people are unfortunately unaware that there is such an opportunity. It is untenable, I said here last week in my speech before the agenda, just in relation to the World Older People's Day, that the situation is untenable that the minimum retirement pension has remained the same for nine years. It is untenable that the provision of nearly 300,000 pensioners, their old-age pension and pension-like care is less than HUF 50,000. And it is also untenable that every year the same amounts are set for aid and equity pension increases, only 700 million forints, and 200 and 500 million forints. Please, I am spending more than a minute on this matter, and I also highlighted it last week, because, in addition to the fact that the minimum pension rate has not increased in nine years, there are very serious bridges here, and with the fact that years ago the Orbán government abolished the contribution ceiling, it has created the possibility of having pensions of up to HUF million or several million in Hungary. You can say that the pension fund is not such a burden, you can say that a person who has earned a long service period has paid a lot of contributions, deserves more pensions, that is all right. But it is not right that from the bottom it has been unchanged for nine years, and from above it is possible to have several million HUF pensions, while each of our proposals was voted off by the Fidesz majority in the committee, which aimed at raising the minimum retirement pension every single time. We have a Parliamentary resolution proposal now, and I look forward to when the People's Welfare Committee will put it on the agenda and what decision will be made. Well, I can envelop the government side's answer to that question. [[13.40]] Still, it is worth considering, my fellow Members, that although the KSH has not been carrying out minimum life surveys for the second year now, research data is not published, but there is a civil society organisation that is doing this instead of the KSH. 79 757 forints for single person pensioners; please, more than one million of pensioners are below the pension minimum per household. There are 1 million 30,000 pensioners out of 2.6 million pensioners who can't get the 79 757 HUF income. Please, I think that a just society cannot afford to have such differences and injustices in the pension system. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-10-19-41	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, State Secretary Peter Benő Banai has now applied for a speech. He has the opportunity to speak. Here you go.
u2017-10-19-42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In short, I would like to respond on four points. It is not easy for Mr Gúr to do so when he talks about the development of public debt before 2010, but, as far as the 2016 figures are concerned, I would like to state three things on the basis of the final accounts: the public debt-to-GDP ratio has decreased, the financing costs have decreased, the financing ratio has changed so that the internal financing has increased rather than external financing, simply saying that we pay interest to Hungarian families at a much higher rate than we have paid before, and we pay much less abroad than we did before. The other thing is the operation of the state. Congressman, tell me you did not agree with a wage increase for people working at district offices or at the NAV. These wage costs are the operating costs of the State. When you see the state's operating costs are increasing, look at what's behind it. The third thing I have to highlight is social affairs. I am sorry that this seems to be such an endless debate for years, and I have to say again: look at the closing score, the number of people in need of help has fallen to God, employment has increased, and real wages have also increased. According to the closing accounts, real wages, including family benefits, increased by 7.7 percent at the national economy level. As a matter of fact, the municipalities were forced to apply to the State for social assistance: this was not the case. It was a planned item. If we look at the 2016 budget or the closing account, we see that, yes, the state has set aside a framework for social support that it has given to the municipalities. So it's not a process that can't be planned. Thank God, we also see that the number of people employed has increased to a greater extent than planned, and that less money had to be spent on social assistance. As far as pensioners are concerned, the closing account talks about the increase in real wages in 2016 too - we would remind you that this was not always the case before 2010 - real pensions also increased, and I would remind you that the payment of a HUF 10 000 Erzsébet voucher was made in addition to a value that I think is no longer questionable and that the stability of public finances has been preserved. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-19-43	Thank you very much. We will return to the speeches of the speakers who have been announced. Congressman László Teleki is next, MSZP. Here you go.
u2017-10-19-44	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to begin by saying that you continue to keep those who were in poverty in extreme poverty, and there is no concept in the 2016 accounts that you can see how you can lead them out of extreme poverty. But it is also true for young people that they want to continue to be unable to get from A to B, so to get a degree that can be applied to the labour market. However, this is true of vocational training, either for adult training or for general vocational training, that you have released the hands of these people. You promised careers, and you can say that there is no way to break out in any of these areas, and there is no way for families to design a career model that has been announced. I'm thinking primarily of educators. If you look at the teacher's payroll, you can see how much a ten to 15-year-old teacher is taking home today. I'm telling you, in case you didn't know, Mr. Secretary of State, these people are bringing home 130-140 thousand forints, who spend 15 years on the field. This means that they earn approximately HUF 200 to 220 thousand in gross terms. I find it outrageous when they say that they want to provide the teachers with a career model, and I do not agree to how bad the proportion of those who have spent more time in the profession has been. So you've shown these people a career model, and you can see that there's no way they can possibly maintain their families. This is also true for health workers, because if you think about a similar rate of monthly pay for healthcare workers, then you can say that you do not talk about giving anyone a life in which it is worth working, which is worth going into and doing in Hungary. Because what you can see from the foreign figures is that young people are also leaving Hungary because they do not want to pay them in the professions they have chosen, in the profession they have chosen, but rather let them go abroad. It is very difficult to say that everything is all right because you are saying nice numbers about how much resources have been created in 2016, but if we put aside the life situation that you can see, then you can say that you are lying, you are not telling the truth, because in every life situation, you can see extreme poverty, poverty, vulnerability and deprivation. Mr Péter Cseresnyés, Minister of State, must also see the situation in the countryside. People in the country are tired of their lives, and they've given up their lives because they can't go to the pharmacy and replace one or two recipes after one or two recipes because they say they can't afford them. For social assistance, it is said that everything is fine and that there are far fewer people in the system than they were. It's outrageous! Do you know why there are fewer people in this system? The only reason they've given up their rights is because of one thing. They've given up their rights because they've given up on the possibility of going in and giving them some money. You forget that citizens who are, by the way, very often elderly, retired and sick are supported at some level. So it is outrageous that they have released their hands to these people, and they can no longer exercise the rights they may still have at their disposal. The drug support system, I say, is catastrophic, can no longer be maintained, that's what you can see from the numbers. Of course, he will say again, Secretary of State, what numbers this country has, and how much they give patients to get well. Well, that's not true. It might be possible to mention how much you lack in different areas of life right now, but let me get to what my specialty is predestroying, first of all, on the Roma issue, and let me start with the worst, Mr. Secretary of State. The news that came to light today is that the Ministry of National Economy concluded mentoring contracts with Roma persons for 350 thousand forints a month, which was ordered by Flórián Farkas, leader of Lungo Drom in the Ministry; he ordered these people to pay this much. I'm telling you, based on RomNet's information, you have this contract. It's true that seven of the members of the Lungo Drom organization were questioned as suspects yesterday, and it's expected that more people will be questioned. Dear Secretary of State, Why is the Roma's money spent on funds that do not affect the Roma and do not try to put the Roma in the position, but on some Roma, who are wrongly given resources that are outrageous? I think that you have a responsibility to start a process that takes account of Roma leaders who have received HUF 350 thousand a month without work. Why are you doing this? I'll keep going. If you were to pay attention to spending that money for a good purpose, you could also eliminate extreme poverty in Romaberk. I have told you several times, but I will tell you, Mr Secretary of State, that 120 to 130 thousand Roma live in extreme poverty and poverty in Africa. In this budget, last year's budget, you have done nothing to eliminate Roma settlements, you have done nothing to increase employment opportunities within Romaberks. [[13.50]] They did one thing, and they did it with great money, they gave Flórian Farkas all the resources he could make disappear, but for no useful purpose, that's for sure. Why are you doing this, Mr. Secretary? Why do they not feel that they have a responsibility to try to support a person in Roma matters who does not give the Roma the opportunity to have employment opportunities, housing opportunities, or to reach a level in health care to recover from the disease in which they are living? Therefore, I am asking you, Mr. Secretary of State, and the Hungarian Government not to do that, through Florion Farkas, they want to rehabilitate the Gypsies in Hungary, pay for them to be in every programme. Because I think that from now on, the government will become even more frivolous than the role society sees in you. I would like to go further: I mentioned the lack of resources for the settlement programmes. You said that you would be EU funds and that in 2016 we would see what resources are coming here. Well, we can see from the report what resources are: zero forints in this category, but their souls are on it. I think that in the next six months, all you can expect is that this area will not be embraced. But I'd go one step further. You say how good the employment situation of the people in the country is and how well we live because everyone has jobs and even soaring in employment. Secretary of State, you're forgetting that most people are in public employment, and they're cosmeticizing the data so that it's outrageous. It is not a problem to be employed in public employment, not to misunderstand, but to keep those people permanently and not only Roma, but also Roma is an outrage. I said it at the beginning when I said that you forgot about your adult training. They don't have adult training in their inventory, and you can't see the resources they have. You can see smaller resources, but those that you would require in this country are neither provided nor provided in the past, nor in 2016 nor in this year. What do you want to do to those who have finished eight classes of primary school, went to public employment, and then realized that they wanted to study a profession? Do you provide them with a profession? Can you provide them with a profession? Because from this draft we see, or from closing accounts, we do not see that we are assured that in the next period, too, they are serious about achieving something in this area. I would also like to send you a message from here again to pay attention to adult training, because otherwise there will be no specialist in this country, as it already is, and it is even better to expect that professionals from abroad must now be brought in to repair a plumbing, roof or anything else. I think you need to think about how you want to deal with this issue. It is very important to mention what I have said many times that you have released the hands of the Roma self-governments. I could say that, perhaps, on behalf of national authorities, although I would not like to speak for them. You can see increases in resources, but not in areas where operating grants could be enjoyed, and what you can see is that the local government and the local government could work together and launch programmes that would help integration. What you do not see is that the opposite of integration has been launched, namely that the municipalities and national authorities are opposed to each other, so there is no integration because everyone points out to each other who is responsible for representing an area in the matter of nationality, whether education, culture or the treatment of ethnicity. I think that you are in any case responsible for the fact that the national authorities are not entrusted with the task and are assigned to it with financial resources so that they can carry out an active activity that can be seen in one settlement. I do not wish to talk about the National Roma Municipality, which I have already said a sentence about. There's fraud, theft, and lies in the system. I would ask Mr Secretary of State to do something here in order not to stir up conflicts between the Roma and not the Roma. Do something, because otherwise it will be that the Roma and non-Roma conflict will be much bigger than ever, because they say that media visitors who read the media or watch psychics see how much money these gypsies have, yet they steal it. No, they are not stolen, they are badly and inadequately supervised, so they can do this in the National Roma Municipality, and there is no partner to sit down with in the National Roma Municipality to talk about programs. It's your responsibility that this mischief can be done. By the way, Flórian Farkas should be here for such an account, and Félix Wolf, because I think that the cause of the Roma is very important. We are talking about nearly 1 million people in Hungary today, and they do not represent this nationality at any level, this minority, and they hire a monthly allowance of 1 million or 2 million forints for the non-existent work they are not doing. How is that possible? ! I know it's not your responsibility, Mr. Secretary, but you're sitting here, and I'm telling you this, and it's possible to explain to the government why they're doing this because they don't want Florian Farkas involved in these work, they don't want him here. The only thing he's good for is spending money on things he couldn't possibly do. About regional and local authorities - this is the final thought - two thoughts. At County level, regional authorities have no owners. It has no master because it cannot be seen what sources they operate from. You now provide a few hundred thousand forints to these local authorities, from which we are talking not only about starting programs, but also about a government system and a public body that does not exist at all. At local levels there is cooperation in some places, and you can see various efforts. I would like to highlight, Mr Secretary of State, Nagykanizsa, where you have a role to play in the fact that there is a well-functioning minority self-government there for many years, but that, as you know and see, would not be possible without your help. And why does Nagykanizsa work well? Just because there is a system of cooperation that we developed together at the time, those who are there, and you can see that in other places because there is no cooperation and no public attention, there is no way to talk about achieving results. So, Mr State Secretary, you have a very big responsibility in taking on the further repression of the Roma issue, or you say that you support this group of people because it is necessary for them to be in a situation in which they can be taxpayers. If you continue to choose the form that you are now, I would like to point out that Gypsy will continue to be dependent, will be in line for aid and will be in extreme poverty. It's your responsibility to make sure it doesn't happen. I therefore ask you, as a representative of the government, to influence the government and the economic interface, to give more to Roma organisations, Roma self-governments, ethnic organisations that want to do something for the Roma in Hungary, not to abuse that money and spend it on themselves. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-10-19-45	Thank you very much. We now have a two-minute speech, Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2017-10-19-46	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, the house rules are such that it is only possible to respond to what has been said in the debate with a significant delay of several hours. But still, I'd like to do it just for the record. Vice-President Harghitai, Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets, has said a few points, and also Secretary of State Banai, which need correction or clarification. In the previous debate, it was said that governance was taken over in a very bad situation in 2010, because the country's fiscal situation was very poor. I would like to put a quote to your attention, which sounds like Hungary has a world championship performance in the field of fiscal consolidation. And even before they thought that this was said by a socialist prime minister, well, that is not so, that is what Viktor Orbán said in 2010 when he held a joint press conference with Angela Merkel. So interestingly, in 2010, Hungary was still a world champion in terms of its performance in the field of fiscal consolidation, and as we progressed and had to find some kind of explanation for why the Fidesz government failed to achieve its economic policy goals, they went right back to the Jolly Joke, the last eight years. Basically, this was seen differently by the Prime Minister at that time. The other thing that has also been said is how much better you actually do everything in this huge success propaganda. [[14.00]] I would refer here to the President of the SAO, who said that the circumstances in the favourable international financial market also contributed to the financial and macroeconomic data for 2016. I would just like to mention this because it is always forgotten to say that in 2008-09 the global economic crisis hit not only Hungary but the whole world, so the budgetary situation at that time must be interpreted in the light of this. Thank you, Mr President, I will continue in a next comment.
u2017-10-19-47	Thank you. There will be speakers who would like to have a normal word, the first to be heard by Member György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2017-10-19-48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I did not really wish to comment on the debate, because in this report, I am even questioning how professional this report is and how politically motivated it is, how independent it is, let us say, of the government in question, how independent it is of the policy in question. After all, it was clear that the SAO has also given its name to political discrediting actions in the last month, and is willing to participate in such activities, which has not been typical of the SAO's activities so far. But you can't be surprised at that, because an ex-member of Parliament is the president of the SAO, and they don't seem to be able to separate themselves from this role. That is why I did not wish to comment on the report. For what I have to say, it was László Teleki's speech, in which there was a lot of truth. Indeed, what you have said is that Flórian Farkas is a criminal. And the current gangster government is protecting this criminal, and there's no debate between us. But let's remember that in your time, when you were in power, Kolompár Orbán was a similar criminal who also stole development money. I remember in 2010 when Kolompár Orbán stood in front of the office building, holding a press conference, wearing a white T-shirt that I was a Roma, not a criminal, and then two months later he was already under arrest. He also suggested, and he is right about that, and I agree with you that the solution is indeed not to try to catch up, not to try to help the gypsy. But pouring money bottomless for these purposes, and that doesn't make sense, it really can't be done. So the government has a lot of responsibility. The only thing László Teleki didn't talk about was how much responsibility Gypsy has in this situation. Because the fact that a man who has now made 1.6 billion disappear, like last time on Flória Farkas, as I understand it, is organizing a gypsy demonstration of 5,000 people alongside Viktor Orbán and his government, and he can still do that means that gypsyism is not throwing these people out of control. In fact, I say, of course, this would be a longer debate, and we should look for the reasons why this has developed, but unfortunately, Gypsy is also responsible for not having their leaders accounted for, not putting leaders in certain positions who want the money the government and taxpayers want to spend on catching up with the gypsy, indeed. So one of the biggest problems of gypsyism is that all the gypsy leaders in the situation have been dishonest, the people who have been stealing their own. [[László Teleki: Don't generalize!]] I think we should say that, too. And if you're a criminal, you shouldn't be handing out presidential pardons like you were handing out to Flórian Farkas, you should lock him up, and you shouldn't put him in that position. The other, and this is the last thing I would like to note, I also agree with what László Teleki said, that the issue of salaries and wages is indeed a huge problem in Hungary, because such low wages are impossible to make a living or to develop normally. We want Hungarian families to live in the best possible living conditions. Therefore, if he feels the same way, I only encourage him to find the booths where Jobbik is fighting for the Wages Union, either at Western Station or elsewhere, in order to start catching up on Western wages in Hungary, so feel free to sign. [[István Ikotity is replaced by Nándor Gúr in the notary seat.]] Don't worry about the fact that the MSZP didn't support this, which I don't understand, why a left-wing party didn't otherwise support the increase in wages in Hungary. We are open, we accept everyone's help in this fight. Our goal in Hungary is to make more and more money, to live on a better standard of living, and to start catching up once the commodities have been achieved in Europe, and it costs almost everything from basic foods to almost everything in the West, so the wages should start to catch up. So please come to one of our booths and sign. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-19-49	Thank you very much. Now, Congressman Attila Mesterházy, in a normal speech, MSZP. Here you go.
u2017-10-19-50	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to continue my comment. The other was such a mistake, which was discussed for a long time by the Fidesz MEPs, the issue of public debt. Congressman Harghitai has said that we have never been in such a good position. Of course, if we choose the right thing to do, then, of course, we can even show that. However, let me draw your attention to the fact that the Fidesz Members have already left, who have spoken about this for a long time, that before the crisis, there was about 65 percent of the public debt to GDP, but if I look specifically at the 2008 figure, it was 71,6 percent of GDP, now, in 2016, 74.1 percent. So if we measure it to this, then maybe this data isn't as impressive right now. Secondly, if you look at the figures in particular, the government debt was HUF 19 500 billion in 2010, at the time of the change of government, and in 2016 the Hungarian government debt was approximately HUF 26 000 billion. So that's not a big step forward either. Not to mention that they managed to achieve this by basically stealing private pension funds and adding HUF 2000 billion to the debt reduction, of course they spent the rest on themselves and on the state. But it is clear that the results in this sovereign debt are not as positive as you have mentioned. Then there was another one, in which Mr Banai, Vice-President Harghitai, also got into an argument with me. This was about GDP growth. The President of the SAO, who also did not wait until the beginning of the debate, nor did Mr Matolcsy yesterday, said that Hungary has grown more in 2016 than the EU average, and what a fantastic result it is. I took the liberty of noting that if we do so in a regional comparison, this figure is already not so beautiful, because Romania, Bulgaria, Poland, or the Czech Republic, Slovenia and Croatia were also ahead of Hungary. And Mr Harghitai's claim that the situation in Hungary was much worse than in these countries does not correspond to the reality either. Please, that is not true, because Romania, Slovenia, Croatia, in 2009, in 2010, but even the Balkans fell much more than Hungary. In 2010 or 11 Hungary has already produced GDP growth. In English: in no way is it true that the Hungarian economic miracle is unique in Europe. Rather, it seems that Hungary would have much greater opportunities and prospects, seeing Romania or Bulgaria, not to mention Poland and the Czech Republic, which is not sufficiently exploited by bad economic policy. There was another statement, which, at least based on the events or news of the last few days, gives rise to a smiley or at least a small correction. Perhaps Mr Hargitai talked about getting rid of international financial institutions, because Hungary has the ability and the knowledge of both the World Bank and the IMF to deal with the economic crisis, and this Hungarian economic miracle is actually envious throughout Europe. What I really don't understand is why Mihály Varga had to conclude a cooperation agreement with the World Bank now. If we are so obsessed with these international financial institutions, then why did we now need to sign a cooperation agreement in Washington that provides professional assistance to the Hungarian government in solving labour market issues and difficulties. So far, we have heard that they have fantastic solutions, that in fact, unemployment in Hungary has already ceased. And there was one more: perhaps at that time they talked about the fact that the then Ministry of Finance - because at that time it was still the Ministry of Finance - had not properly prepared, prepared the budgets according to inadequate strategy theory or procedure, but now. [[14.10]] I smiled because Minister of State Banai was still in the Ministry of Finance, even during our government. Then, not as Secretary of State, but as I recall, as Head of Department, he did a good professional job, by the way. Probably not all the experts in the Ministry of Finance were replaced, and not all were dismissed, and experts with Fidesz Party Book were recruited. So these were the facts that I wanted to record during the debate, at least for the minutes, and what is perhaps important to note, and I would ask the Secretary of State that the President of the SAO spoke of a turn of competitiveness in 2016 in Hungary. On what does the President of the SAO base this statement? After all, what we see in the competitiveness rankings is that Hungary is constantly slipping back and forth, and in fact, during the hearing by Minister of National Economy Mihály Varga, he talked about - with a little self-criticism - that very much success has been achieved, but there is certainly one area where further action is needed, and this is a question of competitiveness; and at the same time they discussed various steps that the government would like to take in the framework of the Competitiveness Council. So summa summarum: I think that this turn of competitiveness is certainly not a turn in the right direction if we call it a turn of events, because it is clear that Hungary has not moved forward in this area, on the basis of the various international indicators, but rather backwards. Another question to the Secretary of State is that the OECD has found that this Hungarian budget is an extremely opaque budget. This is interesting because Mr Hargitai has talked about the fact that one year and the next year's budget are finally built on one another fantastically, and that even six years can be foreseen. In the last draft law, I looked at the medium-term outlook of the Ministry of Finance or the budget prepared. Let's just say - it's rather rough, even though, interestingly, it shared information close to reality in trends rather than the budget for that year. In Hungarian, for the sake of transparency: how can you say that you are so transparent, so fantastic, such a comparable, good-structured budget has never been in life in Hungary, while the OECD misses precisely that this budget is in a European comparison, OECD... - and even wider, because it is certainly not considered to be a 100%, indeed, among OECD member countries. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-19-51	Thank you. We now have a two-minute speech. Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP!
u2017-10-19-52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In these two minutes, I won't go into deep analysis, and I'll do it in the next speech. However, I would also like to establish a basis for the Secretary of State to discuss matters if he thinks he needs to debate them. In terms of closing accounts, the government has its own praise in mind, I believe, while the transparency of their budgets, or rather the lack of transparency, is what is given. My fellow Member, Mesterházy, spoke about this, because one of the worst assessments of the transparency of the Hungarian budget is among the OECD countries. With regard to closing accounts, it is reflected that what you are talking about is that this government and this government activity that is behind us, this activity combined with the budget for tax cuts, is not true. Much more taxes were imposed in 2016, year after year, increasing in scale. They don't save money on themselves. They save on people, save on welfare expenses. They're saving up where they're supposed to be. This has been said by my fellow Member, Mr Korózs, and others. There is no reduction in bureaucracy, however, and the fact that the number of state ministers is increasing with the tip of it is that they are creating background conditions in which they can lubber, while more and more people are becoming more and more miserable. Instead, bureaucracy should be reduced and welfare institutions and measures should be increased. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-10-19-53	Thank you very much. But if all you did was sit down to move your thighs, then I suggest you do this, stand up as it happens, because it's your turn. As a speaker asking for a normal word, Mr Nándor Gúr may continue to make his thoughts known. Here you go.
u2017-10-19-54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All I would like to say in my current normal speech is that it is inevitable on the most important issues. I find it a mistake to waste European resources because it was a waste in recent years and the economic policy built on it. In addition, I find it wrong, along with what we have already mentioned several times today, that, as a result of the investments, I can safely say: as a result of its inefficiencies, we have recorded a 10,6 percent reduction. Then I repeat it again, because I think it is important that, if I add to GDP, to the sum total of gross domestic products, the scale and scale mentioned by Secretary of State Benő Banai, i.e. that I am talking about 2500-2600 of the number mentioned by him, it is only a few hundred out of a billion forints that were integrated into the economy in that year, I must say that it is still 3 per cent higher than GDP, while it can account for a 2.2 per cent increase. In English, without European resources, this economy would have died thanks to the government's actions in quotes; it would not have grown, but rather decreased. Of course, friendly oligarchs benefit. They're gonna get everything they want to get, what they want to get access to. But again, on the contrary, welfare expenditure and welfare measures are being reduced. What the Secretary of State is talking about is not exactly true, i.e. that in terms of education, health and social expenditure, in real terms, he says, more money is being made than, say, in 2010 or before. It's not true at all! You have condemned these sectors, so to speak, to death. Sources - I thought about it, yes - have been withdrawn through these sectors of a thousand billion forints. Obviously, Hungary's financial resources are not something in which public money can be declared to be abundant, but what it does is that the government, on the other hand, conducts wasteful behaviour and squanders public money. Meanwhile, economic growth is unable, even with European resources, to set Hungary on a dynamic path, but if I want to be fair - and of course I want to be - then I must say that without European resources, it is not impossible, but it will bring to life no longer of inability. It can simply be seen that you are incapable of using the European resources at our disposal, on the one hand, in a way that calls for or carries on the dynamics of the economy. I would like to address three fundamental issues, which concern the discharge law. One of the issues related to the world of work, where I have to say right away, is that employment is clearly based on how and how businesses can operate. I have to say, in my first sentence, that in 2016, the payments made by businesses increased. They have grown, which is obviously a barrier to strengthening and the development of real employment growth processes; I say: real employment expansion processes. It can be manipulated, false statistics can be produced, but real employment expansions in the economy can unfortunately be paired with poor confirmations. [[14.20]] In addition to the fact that businesses' payments are increasing, I mentioned it once today, but now I'm going to open them up a little bit, with increasing fines. They are constantly talking about prevention, talking about the need not to fine, but to warn, and then it may be the result if businesses fail to follow the appropriate guidelines to carry out a fine, and yet the closing statement confirms that an increase in the amount of fines has been collected. They blow their mouths out, open them the next minute, and cold air comes out. So what I'm trying to say is that they're not telling the truth. They are saying that they want to create a better world for employers in order to have the chance of increasing employment, while even imposing fines in their direction is a growing trend. But also in terms of the population, from 2015 to 2016, the level and magnitude of personal income tax collected is higher by more than HUF 23,000 million. Once again, I will return to the fund: whatever they say, however they want to get out of this issue, the level of investment in the national economy will lead to a decrease of 10,6 percent. János Harghitai talks about how good the world we live, what you create, as they raise the minimum wage, the guaranteed minimum wage and much more. I am telling Mr Péter Cseresnyés, Secretary of State, that he may hear and look into it, and as a result he will start to fight to make it not the reality I am talking about. In 2010, the net of the minimum wage in Hungary was 60 200 HUF. Now we're talking about 74,000 forints. This means that, taking into account 20 percent inflation over the seven-year period, this amount is roughly the same as where the HUF 60 200 was, so it is the same in purchasing value. But the tragedy is that these minimum wage people have been stolen for five years, because they had less buying money in their hands each year, moving forward than they had in the year before. The deep tragedy is that these minimum wage amounts have been combined year after year with increasing burdens. In 2010, the total burden paid by the employer and the employee was HUF 32 thousand, and now this is to be paid by the employer and the employee together. More than 40,000 HUF increase in burden, which is neither good for the employer nor good for the employee. He's taking them both away. If you had left it at both and kept it at the level it was in 2010, then the employer would have more air, more freedom of movement, and the employee would have more money on purpose, but the employer would also have a chance to make further wage improvements. If they had only let you hire this one, which you collected and then scattered among your friends, then today you would have a net minimum wage of over 100,000 forints. So, all I have to say to János Harghitai is that, in terms of minimum wage, he and State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés should fight to ensure that not the gross ones rise to the sky, but the net ones grow in a moderate way, that people can experience growth in real terms. The same is true of the guaranteed minimum wage. I'm just gonna say one sentence. I don't want to tell the story again. About HUF 40,000 was charged in 2010, and now HUF 92 thousand is paid by employers and employees together. Well, that should be changed, government greed should be limited, and then, in terms of people in the lowest income range, pay increases in respect of moderate net realities could be discussed. I do not want to deal with the public workers anymore, but what you have done is shameful, that the HUF 47,000 is now at HUF 54,000 net against the HUF 60,200 net salary of the public employee in 2010. Now, after seven years, only in absolute terms, there is more than 10 percent less in hands, but if you look at it in realities, it's one third less. You took one third of these people's money with your ex-two-thirds government. In terms of employment, to move past the issue of wages a little bit, slide statistics are used. I could say they're lying, lying to people's eyes. Yes, slide statistics are used, because three factors - but I can tell you more - influence the data reflected in the statistics. One. Between 2010-16 and 2016-17, there are hundreds of thousands of additional jobs in public employment. Last year it was 220,000, now it's 180,000, the average number of employees. Either way, the system is obviously pulsating, but we can say that between 150 and 200 thousand employees are booked in the statistics as a result of public employment compared to 2010. More than 600,000 people have been chased out of this country. A significant proportion of these people, some 140,000 people, are included in the statistics as those who do their work in Hungary. They don't do their work here, because of your fierce actions, they get their bread elsewhere, but they're still here in the statistics. Thirdly, even the many of the students - the system pulsates, between 150 and 200 thousand people per period - who were not in the statistics 7-8 years ago - are included. These three figures affect about half a million people. With a calm spirit, you can discount it from the employment growth you're promoting, and then it comes out that there's a lot of things you haven't done. Many things have not been done, while - remember - 1 million new jobs have been promised, not in public employment, not abroad, not in student employment, not in the economy. Where are you from? Nowhere. Unemployed? Day after day, the news of how good it is, today it is only 4.2, today it is only 4.3, with any percentage points, that unemployment rates are matched. Two sentences belong to this. One is that in the supply systems there has not been a reduction in revenue, but expenditure has. They collect the same contribution as they did 8 years ago to address this issue, but they reduced the duration from 9 months to 3 months, which can provide people with temporary care, and in addition, in an impeccable manner, who can be cleaned out, kicked out of the systems. Well, that's possible, but it's not a normal social attitude to handle things. It is not necessary to push people out of supply systems, not to limit the duration of care to a level that makes them impossible, but to provide for a series of measures or requirements that encourage fair and, of course, stimulating behaviour. National Employment Fund? Forint 340 billion was the money that was planned for the Start job. You know, you remember that they had suns and clouds drawn with a multitude of people instead of the system of normal, active employment policy tools being canceled, but they would have provided a multitude of personalised services. I have to say, they are on a path that is really just about making your own satisfaction in their own interest, in their government interest, happen, and not acting in the interests of the people. You are not guided by how and how we could, let us say, make significant increases in social spending. It is not under the heading of the budget for the tax reduction that you are guided by the fact that, indeed, there are fewer taxes to be collected and more opportunities to be provided, no, as they have done now that they have collected more taxes by HUF 180,000, the government has collected from businesses and people than in the previous year. I have to say, if I want to finish with one more picnic sentence, I would like to say that with HUF 80,000 million for the special tax on financial institutions - HUF 80,000 million! - less in 2016 than in 2015. Whose side are you really on? What they are talking about and what is real is as far apart as, as they say, Mako is from Jerusalem. Well, that's it for the first time. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[14.30]]
u2017-10-19-55	Thank you very much. Two-minute speech, Mr László Teleki, MSZP.
u2017-10-19-56	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I asked for the floor because I can't argue with György Szilágyi, although I'm sure it's not good for me if we can't argue, but we agree on one or two things. The only reason I did this is because when you say that Roma people have to change, and they have to think differently about Flórian Farkas, what to do, yes, you just forget - and you know it very well, because you are in the area - that in the settlements where the mayors of Fidesz are, in many cases, they are in an emergency situation, precisely because of public employment, and so often there is nothing they can do, as they go to work on such a call. Do you know how many phone calls I've received in the last few days that I have to go to the Lungo Drom meeting in Szolnok, because otherwise I won't have a public office? Lots of them. Of course, that doesn't mean anything. We need to change. For this reason, when it comes to change, I was asking Mr Hiller, President of the elections, to prepare a study on precisely the fact that the change of Roma people - we call it a paradigm change - could be started, but one thing is certain: we have to go back in history, before 90, these Roma people worked, and I do not list because of the shortness of time, where they worked and how many people worked. [[Péter Benő Banai returns to the Chamber.]] The fact that, at the moment, this situation has emerged has a major role to do with the current government that Roma workers have come to where they have come, and it is our duty and responsibility to ensure that the paradigm shift takes place either from the point of view of Roma employment or with regard to government considerations or in the transformation of public administration systems. However, I think it can't be any other way, only if we feel joint responsibility, because history has shown that these people want and want to work, and they didn't get the opportunity the way they should, and the developmental opportunity and the development path have been blocked, I say, in the field of education, in the field of vocational training. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And within the possibilities of passing through. Thank you.
u2017-10-19-57	Thank you very much. Congressman Szilágyi, Jobbik, in two minutes.
u2017-10-19-58	Just to see if I could be reprimanded, to say that I agree with you on a lot of things you've just said, and I do. It's a very unfortunate thing, by the way, and it doesn't matter whether we're talking about Roma or not, that we're living in a country where people can really be blackmailed by losing their jobs, that if they don't do what the government or the power wants, where we have to live in a suffocating atmosphere where people have to fear for their work, if they, say, express their opinions, are not good at all, and we have to change that. The other is that I also agree - it's just a matter of responsibility again - that the situation of Roma society and Gypsyism was completely different in the '90s, and it's completely different today, and it was completely different for the Gypsy society to start working at the time, and we kept saying that unfortunately. But the responsibility must be taken away, and you've been involved with the MSZP for the last 27 years, that there will be irreversible processes now, if we really don't deal with this seriously. If the Roma policy continues to be to buy the Roma vote and therefore we are not trying to catch up with them, then unfortunately we are now at the point that there is a generation that has no longer seen their parents work, for example, and does not know what the honour of the work is, let us say. And we want this not to be the case, but rather to go back in time in this part and have an employment policy for a normal government - such as the Jobbik government in 2018 - which will try to catch up with the Roma and try to create opportunities for those who want to be a useful member of society and not to try to settle in on a completely different lifestyle. But, I'm telling you, in most of the things we talked about, I agree. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-19-59	Thank you. As a normal speaker, Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP.
u2017-10-19-60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will pick up where I left off: basically, I would like to take a few little flash-forwards with regard to social issues. With regard to public expenditure, I am pleased that Minister Benő Banai has returned, because it is clear that we can discuss if I might not see something correctly; but unfortunately, I have to say in advance that I see it well, because I know the figures too. For general government expenditure, the share of expenditure for social security and welfare services was 15 per cent in 2015, a figure of 14.5 per cent in 2016. What I'm trying to say is that this doesn't seem like much, this is half a percent, but within a budget, let's say 1 percent is nearly HUF 200 billion, so we're talking about the order of HUF 100 billion. Or - I do not want to go into the details from retirement to other social support or welfare services - if we look at the fact that, in the case of municipal municipalities, today roughly 3,200 municipal municipalities, the issue of social assistance, the conditions of the financial background from 2015 to 2016, unfortunately, we have the idea that, in time, from one year to another, the funds available for social assistance at municipal level are unfortunately less. I think that we do not need to analyse this in a deeper way, that is not acceptable in itself, that cannot be forgiven in itself. The other thing that my fellow Member, Mr Korózs, was partly about is the issue of pensioners. I would like to say here that it is unfair - unfairly! - the funds that you make within the framework of the equity pension system will be put into operation at the rate of 700 million forints. You know, that's what over 66,000 people were after, 66 thousand people for that 700 million forint, and 29 thousand of them were supported. But this makes it even more difficult for you to keep the minimum amount of old-age pension frozen at HUF 28 500 during the period of your government for more than seven years, during the period of almost eight years. I would like to point out that since the moment of the change of regime, there has not been a government, not even the first Orbán government, during which period, in its four-year parliamentary term, the minimum amount of old-age pensions would not have increased, which is now HUF 28 500. Now, during the period of the second and third Orbán administration, Minister of State, this did not grow by a single penny, it froze at 28 500 forints. And between 28 500 forints and 50,000 forints, there are more than 70,000 pensioners in this country who are retired, who are pensioners of this magnitude, who are pensioners of this magnitude, and if we look at those who are pensioners, then there are another 350 thousand people, almost half a million people who receive pension or pension between 28 500 forints and 50,000 forints. For you, this question is not important, in words, yes, of course, less important in terms of action. It is also shameful, Mr Secretary of State, that today - you are no longer using minimum methods of calculation, you are not even letting the KSH do what you did before to calculate them - the minimum amount of living for pensioners, you know, is under HUF 80,000, and HUF 79 thousand and a few hundred per person. Today, among pensioners, more than a million people - more than a million people! - some people don't get the minimum pension amount as a pension. I think that if there was something, they should have taken action in this regard. And, of course, I will add what my colleague Korózs talked about, but I confirm that by liquidating the contribution ceiling, you have achieved that today he is in Hungary - let me say, the two extreme values - a pensioner who receives HUF 28 500, and there is one who has an amount above HUF 3 million in Hungarian: between the two pensioners' pension amounts, there is a multiplier of more than 100 times the value. [[14.40]] Well, it's your attitude to how and how to give people a hand. And of course, if you are a pension, I would add what I consider to be a fundamental sin on your part, that in December 2011, when the 65 years of the old-age pension age were stamped - I only say so that you know that it is clear to you, if you had not read this - there was a popular initiative which, in 62 years, wanted to set the ceiling for the old-age pension age, but Fidesz rejected it, voted for 65 years. I don't necessarily have a problem with that. My problem is that, in addition to all this, the old-age pension age limit was fixed for 65 years, all forms of flexibility were liquidated in the following year. All kinds of things. By this you mean that from early retirement, practically every possibility, every loophole - based on the words spoken in your mouth - has been closed through the leeway of the system of early discounts. With this, countless, not tens of thousands, but hundreds of thousands, have brought countless people into a hopeless situation that did not provide the basis for the creation of a minimum of their livelihood. One word, like a hundred, you're socially insensitive. You're very sensitive to yourself. There's everything, there's the God of God, everything you've been blessed with, according to your own creed, that's all there is. People get nothing, they get lost, they get crippled! Think about the example I'm giving you. The 62-63-year-old who loses his job behind his back for 43-45 years in Hungary today, even today, when 600,000 people have been chased away and needed, finds himself facing the situation in Hungary that he either goes to the slaughter - pre-retirement allowance to be clear - and receives 44,000 forints or puts on the yellow vest and goes out to the parks and earns 54 thousand forints as a quasi-public worker. I'm telling you, 45 years of service behind your back. All kinds of flexibility have been removed. Even though he's had many decades behind him, no, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. They're putting these people under the worst conditions. Mr. Secretary. What if it's not one of the biggest sins you've ever done? And who are they doing this to? Obviously, not with those who, if any, have more degrees in their hands, language skills, creativity and many others, who can play a part in the labour market, but with those who have either a professional qualification or not, as the case may be, but who have been able to work as good trained workers. These people in the labour market will not be able to find their place again for sixty or so years, because we want, we do not want, the labour market works in such a way that it primarily seeks to put people in the prime position of generating profits and returns. Well, that's understandable. That's what they do. They're not social welfare institutions, they want to make a profit. But it is not your job to be a government figurer that only profit comes before their eyes, but their job is to have social sensitivity to a certain extent in their actions, and therefore to those people who are in such a situation, to be able to lay hands on them. But I don't want to be stuck on this issue, so I'm going back to the questions you mentioned for a few thoughts. He says that debt decreases in proportion to GDP. I won't argue with you, Mr. Secretary. I do not dispute it, although with a calm spirit I would not dare to put it in your place, because in 2008, when the global financial and economic crisis occurred, when the volume of public debt was HUF 16 000 billion... [[Péter Benő Banai: What are you talking about, honestly?]] - start pressing the button, let's talk about it. It was worth 16,000 billion forints. This was about 70-some percent, we are not talking about the figures around 78-79 percent, but the 70-some were the beginnings of the 70s, so the 71-72 percent was around the GDP - 2008, the global financial and economic crisis - this is in 2010, already living the global financial and economic crisis, only 19 300 billion forints, whereas now on 31 December 2016 it is 25 900 billion forints. Mr. State Secretary, you can fool each other here, you can talk to me about rates of GDP and other things, and I am talking about absolute figures then, and I am telling you that it is unacceptable that, while the gold reserves have been squandered, while the private pension fund has confiscated HUF 3000 billion, and I could say that while they are not pennies, these are items of a magnitude of several thousand billion forints each, while the total amount of HUF 10 000 billion has been looted in this respect - we can talk about a debt of HUF 25 900 billion of 72-73 per cent compared to GDP. Secretary of State, we also need to tell you what money has been confiscated, what has been zeroed, the country's gold reserves have been destroyed! Or he says that outside funding is that cheap funding. I'd like to tell you one item. I know, cheap funding, settlement policy. Why the hell don't you talk about the settlement policy between the walls of Parliament? About the dishonest process that you started, where through offshore companies, God can only tell you who, how, from among your buddies, from the oligarchs, how you benefited from these sources, from a profit far beyond the order of 100 billion forints. And who's gonna pay back these money? Not you, Secretary of State, not the government, not the people altogether, because you know that after five years these funds must be repaid. What I mean to say, and I have to say, is that it is dishonest when financing through settlement bonds was maintained even when market financing would have been much cheaper. Are you talking about a reduction in the number of aided people? Of course it's dropping, so damn it wouldn't fall if they pushed everyone out of the supply systems!Are they talking about increasing employment? Of course it wouldn't grow if they fed people lying statistics.A million new jobs in the economy! Secretary of State, this was your election promise in 2010. A million new jobs in the economy. In the economy, Mr. Secretary, not in public employment, not abroad, not in student employment. And then I won't come back to the issue of pensioners, I won't come back to how they lie to their eyes and what's real. I'm only going to mention two things to you. One of the things is that it is not exactly true, Mr Secretary of State, what you are saying is that funding for education and health has increased in real terms compared to 2010 in 2016. It's not exactly true. The other thing, Mr. Secretary. The financial uses in government power, you know, the sum of about HUF 200 billion or above, are you saying that within the legal framework? Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary, look me in the eye. Look me in the eye so I can tell you. What is this sentence, that within the legal framework, when laws are called into being, where the context is about to become that if the Fidesz steals, it is not considered stealing! Under such laws? Under such laws, do you say here, within the walls of Parliament, that within the legal framework? Financial use is the most opaque among OECD countries. I'm not saying this. Research results support it. And my last sentence is, with great calmness, that when you talk about the investment rate, when we know that it was a reduction of more than 10 percent, then, Mr. Secretary, don't tell me that it will be better in 2017 and 18, don't tell me about it. Tell me about why this wasn't better in 2016, that's what we're talking about. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[14.50]]
u2017-10-19-61	Two-minute speech by Congressman Mesterházy, MSZP!
u2017-10-19-62	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Secretary of State, the other Secretary of State, has already left and has not answered my question, which is why I would also like to refer two questions to Mr Banai. One is about transparency. Here we have heard from the President of the SAO, but especially from Congressman Harghitai, that he has never actually had such a transparent budget for Hungary in the last 27 years, and it is not only a transparent budget, but it is a converging budget for six years and a hundred years. Why, then, does the OECD consider the Hungarian budget not sufficiently transparent in this regard? So somewhere around here, there's some kind of conflict between propaganda and the position of the international organization. Secondly, Mr Secretary, how can it be that government agencies and companies managing projects in the budget are unable to plan a budget? Let's look at the budget for the water world, which has always cost a few billion more a day, with a little exaggeration. To date, we do not know exactly how much this World Water Championship has cost, and the problem here is not that Hungarian successes are not important to us or international events, and I do not even doubt that such an international event always has to make a profit, but what kind of budget is it, what kind of project management is, where it cannot be predicted by at least a 10% error percentage what the budget will be. So there were 2-3-4 billion people flying around in connection with a project, and I quote, it was a pleasure to watch. So how is there no consequence of this, that public officials or state-funded officials in charge are unable to plan a budget, which, by the way, will require new and new funds from such budgets later on? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-10-19-63	Thank you very much, and don't sit down. [[For signal:]] But the thing is, in the meantime, there's been a change, so take a seat. I recommend this with friendship because Mr Szilágyi pressed a button and so has the opportunity to speak in two minutes. Here you go.
u2017-10-19-64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to confirm this question, that it is indeed an important issue, which my fellow Member has been pressing here about the water world. The problem, I suggest to my fellow MSZP Member, is that it has not yet been a very long time since the wet World Championship, only a few months, so I think that by the time we can draw a normal balance, we may need it in a year and a half, because the water world is long over, but the news is still coming almost daily about how much the water world budget is going to rise, and by the time we have to pay for it, we didn't have to pay for it. And if you have already mentioned how opaque and how much it was possible to plan - of course, it is not entirely closely related to this subject we are discussing here, but it is interesting - I do not know if Mr Secretary of State can answer whether it was before the wet world that when the temporary bleachers are broken down, the parking garage will be built from it. The reason why the high tide arena looked like a parking garage during the water vb is because these will be the foundation of a parking garage. I would like to know where this parking garage is built, because this is a very important question, because it was designed not to be thrown out of a window, but the foundations of a parking house that could be used afterwards have already been prepared, and if I have good information, these unfinished items are not used in a parking garage, but are being taken to the dump and other things. These are important questions, by the way, and that is why I said - I do not know whether Mr Secretary of State was here or not at my first comment - that I do not really want to comment because I question the professional nature of this entire report, how professional and political it is [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So please, really, if you can, answer me. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-19-65	Thank you, Congressman. Congressman Attila Mesterházy in a normal speech, MSZP. Here you go.
u2017-10-19-66	Thank you very much. I think it is right that Mr Szilágyi has given a little more detail on this point, because at that time we did not even talk about the fact that they could not even design these facilities and projects well for post-utilisation purposes. Well, what if Hungary could have an Olympics? Then, I think it is quite certain that the Hungarian budget would go bankrupt, because if the cost of setting up an Olympics would increase at this rate, as was the case with the water world, the Hungarian budget would certainly not be able to handle it. One more thing I wanted to draw your attention to here in the debate, Mr Secretary of State, is that Nándor Gúr has already spoken about this in part, and it is indeed also related to welfare expenditure. In this debate, it has not yet been said that recently the European Union published a survey, if I remember correctly, surveyed the European Union's 260, precisely 263 regions on the basis of various economic indicators, the extent to which these regions have developed in terms of the EU average. Here, the unfortunate result was that between the 20 worst-case regions in the European Union, four regions belong to this region from Hungary, the North-Alföld region, the North-Hungarian region, the South-Transdanubian region and the South-Alföld region. So in Hungarian, the government did not express any cost elements, complex development programs in the 2016 budget, which could not only improve the situation of these four very backward regions, but also lead in various regional developments. But if I add the most advanced regions, the central region of Budapest is the most advanced region, reaching 105 percent of the EU average, I will just compare - the former Secretary of State was not here when I spoke about the regional situation in terms of GDP growth - I will now give you another figure. The Bratislava region is at 188 percent in the same survey, at 178 percent in Prague, Bucharest, which we always refer to as where they are compared to us, is at 136 percent, and Budapest is, again, 105 percent. So in Hungarian, there is something for the government not only to do in terms of welfare expenditure, as has been said here several times in the debate. You have talked about all kinds of real growth, and Mr Harghitai has also talked about how much extra resources have appeared in the fields of education and health. Again, this is either a lie on the one hand or a self-distorting of statistics, since the base was sufficiently lowered, hundreds of billions of forints were taken out of these sectors by means of restrictions over the last six to seven years, so, compared to the fact that something has been replaced, it is far from the result that no funds have been taken from the start, and perhaps even additional resources have been provided for these resources. Not to mention the fact that, for example, in the area of health, resources that are known to European Union funds could be used for these purposes. So, as has already been said, in terms of welfare expenditure, this budget spends less than the 2010 budget before the crisis or during the crisis, and, moreover, we do not see any development policy idea, which must, of course, have a budgetary branch, which, for example, would improve the situation of these four regions by speeding up, because this is not about inaccessible issues, but about something that really makes sense and can be done in the foreseeable future. It was another question we didn't get an answer to. The President of the SAO said that he had seen some kind of competitive turnaround in the 2016 budget. Unfortunately, the President of the SAO left immediately after his comment, so we could not ask him that for clarification, so I would ask Mr State Secretary how he sees this huge turn of competitiveness, because your boss, Mihály Varga, at the Committee on the Budget hearing last year, talked about how many fantastic successes had been achieved, but in one subject he really said self-critically, surprisingly self-critically, that there was something more to be done with regard to Hungarian competitiveness. It is true that the Prime Minister spoke just a few days ago about Hungary's ability to achieve fantastic results even without European Union funds, and that it is not true that Hungarian companies might indeed be at a competitive disadvantage without European Union funds. [[15.00]] What is interesting is that a number of studies commissioned by the government, such as the ministry marked by János Lázár - and I believe that the joint study of the GKI - could have been negative for many years, and that without European Union funds, Hungarian GDP growth, as Nándor Gúr has already said, could have had a negative impact on the Hungarian economy, and that these European Union funds have indeed had a negative, so-called restrictive effect in the Hungarian economic sphere. So it seems a little lazy for companies, because the European Union's resource in this regard is, perhaps, a simpler source than if these companies wanted to turn to bank loans, as it is a major non-refundable grant in many cases. So in Hungarian, in terms of competitiveness, the government should certainly take new and new steps, not to mention education, innovation and much more that it can help Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-19-67	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary of State has applied for a speech, but I would like to say to you, which you cannot see from the fact that there is a two-minute comment - which, of course, is not a guarantee for the future, but a kind of hope - whether you wish to speak now or if you will give your opinion in closing. [[Péter Banai Benő: I'll tell you in closing.]] He withdrew it in English. [[Peter Benő Banai: Yes.]] All right. We have a two-minute speech. Congressman Nándor Gúr!
u2017-10-19-68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And I would just like to ask the Secretary of State not to withdraw and not to say a closing word, because that is less interesting than discussing things. So I'd like to ask you... [[Peter Benő Banai points to the president.]] I'm telling you, you, Mr. Secretary, are a sovereign individual. Just like the President of this House is a sovereign individual. So I ask you not to withdraw your comments, not to create a situation where you will be able to say in a closed manner all the things you think about what we have talked about here in Parliament's walls, but to be worthy of yourself at some point when you are willing and able to argue. Be worthy of it, because I appreciated it. Do not enlist in the ranks of State Secretarys who dare not say one single word in a debate, and then draw the final conclusions, so to speak, in a instructive manner, if appropriate, to the opposition, to tell what is true, the smart one, the reasonable one. I didn't know you as such, don't want to say a closing phrase, answer the questions, which, if necessary and not unnecessarily, may be subject to further discussions, debates, discussions and discussions. So, with all due respect, I would like to ask you to press the next button, not on the closing word, but on the answer to the raised questions, which will allow you to continue to say in this debate, if any of the Members so wish, in order to clarify and have a clear vision of certain issues for everyone. Secretary of State, I hope you understand my request, and I hope you will act accordingly. You have confirmed my hopes several times because you were willing to argue. I hope you're willing to do it now, and you're not trying to say a closing point. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-10-19-69	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if any of the Members would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to reflect now. [[On the sign of Péter Benő Banai:]] Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-10-19-70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I must start with the words of Mr Gúr, and I can assure Mr President that I will always undertake a sensible debate myself, and I will try to respond to sensible professional arguments, but at the same time I have the feeling that during the negotiation of annual budgets and the negotiation of the accounts, statements, questions on which the answers are in vain, the same false, false statements are being made again and again. So I, for my part, am always open and open to intelligent debate; I do not see the point of arguing with factual matters on the subject. [[Nándor Gúr: Why didn't you do this now?]] I have seen among today's questions from the opposition that are truly worthy of debate. Attila Mesterházy, Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, mentioned in his last speech the issue of competitiveness; this is a subject I think it is worth talking about. And the 2016 final report, I think, showed that Hungary has performed well in terms of objective indicators measuring competitiveness. I say this not only as a government man, but also as a person who sees the data of the Member States of the European Union, all macroeconomic data, and who sees the value judgment of market investors and official credit rating agencies and other economic policy organisations. There is no doubt that, alongside objective indicators, there are subjective factors affecting competitiveness that could shift a country's competitiveness indicator in a positive or negative direction. That's exactly the kind of factors we've been talking about. For example, the World Economic Forum forecast, where 70% subjective indicators are formulated, gives the content of the index subjective indicators. Now, in this area, we have also managed to move forward nine rankings on the basis of the latest statistics on Hungary. At the same time, I think that, in terms of competitiveness, there are tasks in terms of our productivity, and I think that the six-year wage agreement in 2016 is moving forward in this direction, since it increasingly requires businesses to produce high added value products, provide high added value services and have a well-paid and well-trained workforce for the production of this. I think that we have tasks, but we can see what steps we have taken, and what steps can be taken to improve objective indicators that measure competitiveness, and I hope that they will also change subjective indicators. With regard to the implementation of the budget, the transparency of the 2016 budget: I would once again like to state that all government decisions and the budgetary implementation of organisations independent of government have been carried out only in accordance with the laws. When I talk about the government implementing the budget within the legal framework, I think that it has respected the deficit target laid down in the Finance Act and respected the reduction in debt. Yes, on the basis of the legislation, I would add, as before 2010, there are appropriations which are used by the government's decision. This is absolutely natural; these use of resources is also reported in the accounts by the government and decisions are public. But I think that the 2016 budget and its implementation are also positive in this respect, and in this respect also followed the government's policy that we consider the deficit target to be important. It is recalled that when criticisms were given that this was not the case before 2010. And it is possible to refer not only to the economic crisis, but also to periods where Hungary had reached a deficit above 9 per cent of GDP before the economic crisis. We see that in 2016 as well as in previous years and I hope that the deficit in 2017 will be below 3 per cent. The debate also discussed EU sources of economic growth. I repeat, on the basis of the statistics available, if only EU funds were driving the growth of the Hungarian economy, we would have seen a decline in 2016. And I repeat, of course, the use of EU funds has a significant impact on how economic growth is developing, but international examples and Hungarian examples show that the quality of economic policy determines whether there is growth in a country or not. Congressman Ikotity said that the rapid use of EU funds could be dangerous, a one-off spending, a one-off demand effect, which could later be a problem with the so-called decline in EU funds. I have to argue with this statement, since in the new period 2014-20, the government basically raised direct economic development aid to the top, with a 60% share of direct economic development resources. [[15.10]] These economic development resources may result in additional investment in enterprises, higher employment and higher wages. Thus, in economic terms, the supply effect, the higher production of the subsidised investments, can later characterize the country. Therefore, it is rational to use these development resources as quickly as possible. And again, unlike the 2007-13 period, the government intends to use mainly direct corporate subsidies and subsidies to strengthen the economy in the 2014-20 period. Thus, the use of EU funds has not only a one-off, so to say, demand impact, but also a lasting effect that results in higher productivity and higher output of the subsidised enterprises. The 2016 discharge, I repeat, reported that the State had advanced significant resources for these EU grants. The real economic impact of these advanced resources is essentially achieved from 2017 and fortunately, thanks to the country's efforts, this significant pre-financing could be achieved by the government in 2016 by keeping public debt on a declining path. I repeat: the debt reduction in 2016 that marked the country has characterised Hungary since 2011 and Hungary is among the few EU Member States who have been able to reduce their public debt year after year since 2011. Based on these favourable macroeconomic conditions, marginal conditions, data from the 2016 accounts, the population and families were able to significantly expand their resources. This increase in resources is due to these economic growth, the increase in employment and the 7.7% increase in real wages. In addition, tax incentives have contributed to an increase in income. It should be recalled that family benefits for families with two children have been increased, and I would remind you that the rate of personal income tax has decreased from 16 to 15 percent. In addition to families, pensioners saw an increase in the value of their real pensions in 2016, as inflation was only 0.4 per cent, with an increase of 1.6 per cent, and at the end of the year the budgetary situation also allowed Elizabeth's voucher to be paid. There was a lot of talk about pensioners in today's debate. I think that these figures, these facts speak for themselves, and it is possible to compare governance since 2010 with that before 2010. Since 2010, real wages and pensions have increased by more than 10 percent. We know that we cannot say the same real increase every year for the period before 2010, and that even the 13th month pension was reduced at that time. The stability of the budget, which also characterizes the year 2016 and the previous years, and also describes the first 9 months of 2017 has been achieved by increasing the resources of many sectors. In 2016, there was a lot of talk about this, including extraordinary spending, such as protecting the country and Europe. I think that there was little mention of the positives of this, even though it is worth talking about. Yes, we were able to spend tens of billions of HUF on border protection, on countering the threat of terrorism, and today Hungary is one of the safest countries in the European Union. But in addition to these one-off expenditures, systemic expenditure has also increased in a number of areas. Congressman Gur, who no longer listened to the answer [[Nándor Gúr from the notary's seat: I'm here!]] He said - I'm sorry, I'm wrong, yes - that it was not factually true that, compared to 2009, health and education expenditures had increased in real terms. Then I would like to draw your attention to the 2009 factual figures, the 2016 closing report, which we were talking about, and, if I may, the honourable Parliament will allow me to say the numbers. Total expenditure of educational activities in 2009: HUF 1529.7 bn, based on closing figures in 2016: HUF 1846.5 bn. Health 1185.3 billion HUF nominally, 2016: 1521 billion HUF. [[Nándor Gúr: Real value!]] Real value, notary, I've heard, I've said that. I would ask you then to look at the numbers and, with respect, I ask you to revise your statements, because Mr. notary has said things that are not true in the debate in Parliament. The cumulative inflation rate between 2009 and 16 is 17.3 percent; in real terms, both education and health expenditures have increased. We can have a professional debate about what kind of breakdown this was. My statement is that, and the closing account of 16 shows that there were also surpluses in wage increases, and, of course, in addition to wage increases, there have been a number of changes, whether in terms of investments or in terms of financing the institutional system. We still have a task, I think, in this area, too, but it is difficult to argue with facts, and the facts show that the 2016 discharges also show that the often mentioned withdrawal is not real compared to 2009. There are also items in the debate that will be answered not by the 2016 accounts, but by the closing account of 17. These include, for example, the financing of the water world. I can tell you that, of course, as the government has always reported to Parliament on the implementation of the budget, it will do the same for the year 2017. Let me just say that, according to international opinions, we have been able to hold a very successful World Championship. We managed to ensure that resources could be provided alongside the stability of public finances in 2017, and I draw attention to the fact that a number of investments have been made that will remain with us permanently. So when we are going to analyse the costs of organising the World Water Championship, the positives, in addition to the results, and in addition to the fact that this event was a very big advertisement and very positive news for Hungary, we also need to see that a number of new investments have been made, which will remain with us permanently. I'm thinking about the new Arena swimming pool. When assessing the 2016 accounts, therefore, I think that we can leave behind a year that is also favourable for macroeconomic figures, positive for the change in the income situation of families, and, of course, there are a number of other tasks ahead of us, but I think that these past results show that government economic policy will find the answers to the challenges facing the country. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-10-19-71	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that it is possible to present the amendments by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, It follows that the general debate and conclusion of the proposal for a decision on the extraordinary settlement of claims by victims of the Czeglédy case will follow. Gergely Gulyás, Zoltán Bóna, Csaba Hende, Gyula Budai, István Németh, Members, Fidesz, and István Hollik, Member, KDNP, Members of the European Parliament submitted a proposal H/17788. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I would like to remind you that during the start of the general debate, the initial speech by the author, the speech by the representative of the government, the speeches by the keynote speaker and the speech by the first independent Member. Here, therefore, are some further speeches from its representatives. Congresswoman Anita Heringes, MSZP, has applied for a speech.
u2017-10-19-72	Thank you very much for the floor. I regret that there is only one Member left here; I see that he has been left here for us, yet there must be someone who defends the honour of the munter, in something that I think is indefensible. Because you're using students in this decision proposal for political hystericalism. It's as simple as that, and that's it. [[15.20]] That is because you are also putting forward in your proposal for a decision to ask the government to take action as quickly as possible to ensure that the unpaid income due to the students who have suffered the damage is adjusted to an amount equal to the amount not paid by the victim on the basis of extraordinary and fairness. I think that all my fellow Members agree that students should receive their wages. But the victims in this case, which you speak of as the Czeglédy case, are not the students, because you brought the students into this case. And I'll tell you how. The subject is simple and simple, which lies before us, since the May wages are paid by Human Operator Kft. normally, he started assigning it at the right time on 9 June. But the independent NAV closed their account on June 13th, so they couldn't finish the payments, the amount of which was in their account, so the students could get their wages from the company, only you, let's say the independent NAV, blocked the bill. You couldn't afford it from here on out. So you turned the students into victims, that's all. This is very simple, so it could be used for political hysteria. Then let's keep looking. Suddenly, out of nowhere, I mean, not from scratch, but from behind Lajos Kósa, an old friend, István Fiák, president of Student Services, István the Sons, who also welcomed the establishment of the pensioner-cooperative law. Of course he was happy to see her, because she was one of the first to immediately set up a retirement association. Let's just say he's the one behind another student-work organization, so we can say that he's somewhat interested in this case. He is the one who came out of nowhere from behind Lajos Kósa's back. How do they know each other? Because they sit together on the board of the Hungarian Skating Association. He just stepped up and thought that he would protect the students, and everywhere he said hysterically that we were talking about thousands of students, and then in his official letter he wrote that a total of 16 students had turned to him. The 16 students also have to be paid, and we would also like to say every single time that everyone must, of course, receive their wages. That's not the question. But what you put on the table is not about that, but simply about political hystericalism. Because if Fidesz MEPs really thought the problem was important, they would have had to submit a legislative amendment to this resolution proposal that would allow companies' accounts to be paid in a manner supervised by the tax authority during criminal proceedings. But that's not what happened. In order to win the next spring parliamentary elections, Fidesz did not hesitate to use and exploit students in need to achieve their own political goals. In doing so, he uses the vulnerable students to deceive and influence national public opinion. I think, fellow Members, that this matter is very ugly. It is very ugly because you have taken a path that I think many of you would not have imagined when your representatives in this Parliament took their oath. For the sake of the election campaign, you will use and use anything and anyone, students as well. They're being used in cases where you couldn't find a better solution, just that you had to make a political case out of it. I think, fellow Members, that you should be ashamed. Make sure the students are paid, make sure everyone gets their wages, because that's a perfectly legitimate demand. But don't use young people, don't use students, and don't use any Hungarian citizens to campaign for political hysteria. I dare say this is the most disgusting tool they can do. It would be most sensible, and if you had a little Christianity in you, a little conscience and a spine, that you would still withdraw this proposal and say that you would make a proposal about solving the problem, not about what you put on the table. Please, my fellow Member and fellow Members, who have submitted this and who will probably want to vote in the benches of the Fidesz-KDNP to take out their spines and draw out their consciences. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-19-73	Thank you. Congressman György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2017-10-19-74	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, As has been said, in fact, the speeches of the lead speaker have already been made this morning, then the Parliament was honoured by Mr Gergely Gulyás, Head of the Group, and Csaba Hende was sitting here in the Chamber with his presence. During my speech, Mr Hende, when I told him what had happened in Szombathely, shouted aloud and said that what I was saying was not true. It seems that it wasn't so true that now he doesn't dare come back and defend his own arguments during the general debate, even though I told him that I was available, I'm here to discuss it. The case raises a lot of questions. The need to support this proposal for a decision is not in question. The Jobbik for Hungary movement will also support it, as students who have worked for their money and who may not have gotten their own money because of political battles, but otherwise, in all likelihood - I say in conditional mode, although this is not the case in the resolution proposal, but the investigation is still ongoing, but in conditional mode - and according to the prosecutor's office, Csaba Czeglédy, together with his associates, operated a multi-level network of companies to avoid paying public burdens. It's illegal, and it's probably gonna be a court case, and it's gonna be a court case, but the fact that they wanted to avoid paying public charges doesn't mean that they wouldn't have paid the students if they hadn't closed their accounts to this company. It should be investigated for who really caused the current situation. But once again, it's out of the question that students have to be compensated, they have to get the job fee they've worked for. But I also said that I consider this proposal to be a hypocritical thing, and here were the debates with Csaba Hende, because we also need to look at what Fidesz and KDNP have done in this case, how they have agreed to this case, why we are there six months after the case exploded, so that they will receive the money for their work sometime, in a few months' time, when Jobbik Hungary's Movement proposed this solution to you four months ago. My colleague Gergely Farkas called on the government to compensate the students, but you then swept this off the table. In fact, I said, and this was also the case, that in the General Assembly in Szombathely, Péter Balassa, a right-wing municipal representative, immediately indicated that he offered 1 million HUF of his own representatives' budget for this matter and that they should establish a fund that could have been associated with anyone. He also called on the other municipal representatives to do so. The indemnification process could have started with this financial fund several months ago. And what was still in question is the way you've been acting and taking on this case since the incident started. I'm a little upset that Gyula Budai has been a government commissioner for accountability in the last two or three weeks - it's very important what title he was in, because in 2010, when Fidesz came to the government - well, during the second Orbán government, he was the one who was commissioned by the Prime Minister to be so accountable here that it would only be so. They promised me this about Ferenc Gyurcsány, and then there was no accountability. And in return, Gyula Budai has been on tour for two or three weeks by asking MSZP and Ferenc Gyurcsány about how Ferenc Gyurcsány was in such a relationship with Csaba Czeglédy and loaning him money and money. You would have liked to have Ferenc Gyurcsány accounted for, then there would be no question! You've sabotaged the accountability, and then you're trying to push it all over other people. And how deceitful what they are doing also shows how the city council and the body of representatives acted after this case. [[15.30]] After all, the betterman's representative initiated the following immediately. One of them was that he submitted an immunity and conflict of interest initiative to the municipality, which you Fideszes-KDNP MEPs voted against, by the way, at the time of the general assembly Gyula Budai held a press conference in front of the building and said, wow, what kind of criminals there are, and that he could be a municipal representative and so on. But you didn't like the examination any more. The other is that we initiated a property declaration procedure when it turned out that there were different bank accounts in Austria and maybe gold bars and the like. Interestingly, Fidesz-KDNP did not support this either, in a large coalition with MSZP. So what's weird about this is that the MSZP and Fidesz together in Szombathely protected and protected Csaba Czeglédy to this day. Then the third suggestion was, and perhaps it was the strangest thing, that there was no partner in this Fidesz-KDNP that was built - now it was built, but in that period it was still built - the Stadium in Szombathely. At the local government company responsible for the execution of this, who was in charge of the supervisory board position? Csaba Czegledy. He supervised a major 100 million investment as Chairman of the Supervisory Board, even when he was arrested. And when he was arrested, and Jobbik suggested that Csaba Czeglédy be immediately replaced from the supervisory board position, they could have done that. You can't call him back, but you could have called him back from here, but Fidesz-KDNP, in conjunction with the MSZP, voted off. And it took months for them to realize that this condition could not be maintained, and they did call Csaba Czeglédy back from the supervisory position. So the question arises as to why the Fidesz-KDNP, in a large coalition with the MSZP, defended Csaba Czeglédy in Szombathely for months, when you kept communicating completely differently in central communication, saying completely different things. One last thing that's very, very interesting. This is that, before Csaba Czeglédy was arrested, a journalist from Fidesz kept writing articles about the fact that the Human Operator is most likely to have problems, since his name was raised in various cases. So that means that the local Fidesz knew a lot more about the events than a normal person or anyone else. Local Fidesz must've known months before that something was wrong. They didn't do anything, but they didn't do anything about it. So, once again, we are in favour of the resolution proposal, but we simply find the perverse policy of Fidesz in this matter to be repugnant. We call on you not to turn everything into political gain before the elections, not to exploit young people, the young people likely to be deceived in this matter; the young people you are using in this matter in order to possibly try to preserve their power. Most of the Hungarian society can see through you, by the way, because they are quite strikingly and transparently mixing certain cards that they think can be mixed in the Habony witch kitchen. Trust me, this is gonna come back on you. Once again, I ask you not to use young people to gain political benefit from this case. Rather than be such a symptomatic treatment as that which has just been submitted to this House, let us really try to protect the student workers. But for the long term, let us come up with a system, solutions that would really serve to make sure that these young people who meet work for the first time do not have such bad experiences. We are also partners in this, as Jobbik has already started a campaign five years ago, a campaign called The Student Not Slave, in which we also took on tasks from the government that I think the government should have carried out long ago. For example, there is an opportunity for young people to report complaints from Jobbik, where they can signal problems, even lawlessness or even grievances that they suffer in their work. I think that such a complaint reporting office should be run by a responsible government, and that a responsible government should be concerned with not being vulnerable to students when they are trying to enter the labour market. Greater protection, greater control should be introduced and consideration should be given to whether current laws and current regulations are appropriate to ensure that students are safe. Because, in our opinion, we do not, because if they were suitable, we would not be able to meet such Czeglédy cases in Hungary. Thank you for listening.
u2017-10-19-75	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP!
u2017-10-19-76	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It's clear that Fidesz is throwing another political communication tool into the political campaign. So this draft resolution has nothing to do with students or finding the truth in the world. That's probably why there's no such big fidesz presence in this room, because from what I can see, there's only one Fidesz member sitting in this room who's got a partial record of this draft resolution. Perhaps the sense of shame is somewhere in the souls of the Fidesz people that they want to take advantage of every case in a depraved way. But in order to waste a few words on this resolution, I would like to start by saying that this resolution, in order to alleviate the damage caused by the crime, I have now quoted it literally, or a little lower, within the first point, it is said that Csaba Czeglédy, the representative and his associates of MSZP-DK together in Szombathely have consciously damaged persons. That means it's a decided fact, isn't it, that this crime has happened? In fact, according to the parliamentary decree, it was decided that Csaba Czeglédy and his various associates did so. Then, a little later, in the general explanation, the first line begins with one of the most important criminal frauds in recent years being revealed in May. He's saying it in the past tense, and then he's probably getting a little smart for the person who said it, because he's been using it all over the place, according to probable cause. I would just like to draw everyone's attention, no matter how you see it now and what the outcome of this procedure will be, because you would think that today in Hungary there is a police, a prosecutor's office, and even a court that it is up to these bodies to investigate, and then decide whether someone has committed any violations or irregularities, that there are some statutes on the presumption of innocence. I would recommend this to the one-eyed Fidesz congressman. For example, Article XXVIII of the Fundamental Law of Hungary. Article 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice, which states that no one shall be considered guilty until his criminal liability has been established by a final decision of the court. In addition to the Fundamental Law, there are a number of international treaties ratified by Hungary, such as the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, in which Article 14 (2) states that all persons accused of committing crimes have the right to be considered innocent until proven guilty under the law. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. But I could also mention Article 6 (2) of the European Convention on Human Rights, which states that any person suspected of committing a crime must be presumed innocent until his guilt has been established in accordance with the law. The fact that we could go even further, if appropriate, is that the Fidesz media, as has already been said here, has actually called out and read the verdict in this case before the initiation of all kinds of proceedings, while the UN Human Rights Committee has pointed out that the media should also refrain from any news broadcast that could undermine the presumption of innocence. In fact, the European Court of Human Rights has also taken a similar position in a number of cases, which concern the obligation of the media to respect this principle not only by the authorities but also by the media. For the presumption of innocence is a basic institution in constitutional criminal law, and protection belongs to everyone. [[15.40]] So we would go into the content part later, but basically in my first comment I wanted to draw attention to the fact that what you described here is said by the court after a long investigation phase as the result of a procedure, not even before the investigation phase was completed, the Hungarian Parliament states in a resolution that it is a Hungarian citizen that he is guilty, and that he has committed the crime with which he might be accused. I would add that this is unprecedented in the history of the Hungarian Parliament. I've been looking into it, and my colleagues and I have been looking for any precedents for this in the last 27 years. No one has ever dared to present such a proposal for a resolution, and perhaps, in advance of a later debate, it is also typical of why it is brought here in the form of a decision. After all, if you really were so concerned about students, you could have brought a bill here, and then we are not talking about ordering the government to do something later, but in the same time, the law could have been changed in such a way that it would be necessary to have an immediate effect on these measures. This makes it quite clear that this is all about what we have just said, a political hystericalisation, and they intend to use the Hungarian Parliament to do so from the point of view of a conscious party political campaign. Once again, this type of resolution has not been the case since this Parliament was in operation since the change of regime. There has been an example before, so there have been several cases of prejudicated and different conceptual procedures during the previous system. This has never been the case in this House before. I hope it is not typical now, and I hope that Fidesz will withdraw this decision in this form. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2017-10-19-77	Thank you very much. Mr Szilágyi, Jobbik, will be given a two-minute speech.
u2017-10-19-78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just have one more question if the author could answer that question, because we have absolutely no information about it. Just tell me what the damage is. If you have such information from the prosecutor's office and everything, then you just know how much this resolution proposal has now been submitted for, about what amount you will have to pay as compensation. It is important to know that, because there are only a few hundred thousand HUF items flying around here, so it doesn't matter that we are talking about a few hundred thousand forints or, say, a hundred million forints. I don't think any of these numbers are right. It is indeed a matter of speed why they did not come before this House with a bill - a legitimate question, and they could answer that. If they really wanted to help me, I would draw their attention to one more thing. You wouldn't be afraid of anything if you, let's say, thought that you are in government and you are in government, that I would also help students who wish to work, by giving students sufficient information at school and giving these students sufficient information about what their rights are, if they go to any of the school associations for student work. This would not be of any concern, since in my opinion, the most important objective of a responsible government should be to protect these students as much as possible from people who are trying to exploit them. In order for this to happen, for example, there would be nothing else to do but to enlighten them in education about what rights they have if they leave, what they can demand and what they cannot demand from them, and if they have any problems, then, once again, they should have an organisation or an opportunity to complain to employers if they are being violated. Thank you for listening.
u2017-10-19-79	Thank you very much. Congressman Tamás Bellozó, MSZP!
u2017-10-19-80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My fellow Member, Attila Mesterházy, explained very clearly and clearly why this proposal, which I think, in substance, should this House function as a decent Parliament and, for example, its unbiased leadership, could not have allowed Parliament to see it in this form. There is indeed a wording in the Parliamentary resolution proposal, there is a statement of fact that is simply not permissible to the Hungarian Parliament, completely contrary to the Basic Law. But actually, if we look at the rest of the proposal, I would first respond to the good point that we have just had, because I see that our fellow Fidesz Member is not brilliant in this debate. On 28 July 2017, MTI itself issued a notice stating that 11 victims were able to fully justify their claims and gave the Sons' Law Office a power of attorney. The total amount of damage suffered by them is 802 822 HUF. This was reported by MTI through the lawyer concerned, Mr. Kósa's friend. Since then, it has been reported that this 11 has risen to 18. Obviously, not underestimating the problem that, indeed, as a victim of thousands of counts, I would like to make it very clear once again: this damage occurred in respect of students on the basis of current information because the NAV blocked the company's accounts in the context of criminal proceedings, on which the money was on it, which could otherwise have been paid for, and in the previous days it was paid continuously. I would therefore like to ask my fellow Member, with great respect, to help us at the same time, because he notes this proposal as to what the proposal is. My fellow Member, what's the suggestion? Because the fact that you're declaring a verdict in a resolution proposal and then you're asking the government to come up with something is ridiculous. Where are the students? Where are the victims? Where is there any act that makes sense that you want to help someone or someone, and you don't just want to make a circus and take political advantage of these people's misery and damage? There are clearly two ways to go. One is that the law is amended in such a way that, as we have already said, wages can still be paid from the blocked account. It's not a complicated thing. Probably the bill itself wouldn't be more than two lines. And it wouldn't be the first time that it was important for you to accept it in an emergency procedure in one day. What's important to you is that laws have been pushed through the House a few times. The other option, which has already happened before, is to compensate these young people from the Wage Guarantee Fund at that time. But that's not in your proposal. In your proposal for a resolution, there is only an anti-law prejudication of what this guilty man and these guilty people have done and what they have not done, and they ask the government nicely to come up with something. I think that this is simply ridiculous from this point of view. It would be good if my fellow Members of the Fidesz also spoke about where the other cases were of great help. Where were you in the Esos case, where thousands of victims were proven? About 2800, if I remember correctly. Where EU funds were used, they should have given jobs to the most vulnerable people, in which case the company concluded a contract with public forestry to give the work to the people, so the Hungarian state was in the middle of it and left the people on the side of the road like a draft. Our fellow Member Bangóné has submitted a concrete bill to Parliament on how to help these people, and you have already voted against these issues in the Commission debate. Of course, the Quaestor victims could be asked in the same way, and it would also be possible to ask the victims of broken brokerage companies and banks under MNB's fantastic supervisory powers why this issue was not so important to you there. We continue to think that this is a very, very bad political matter that they're doing. He cried out on this whole issue, and in the presence of you, of course, he will show that he is almost insufferable, what you have put forward here in this resolution proposal is politically, otherwise it does not contain any professional solution for students, and therefore, from this point of view, it is completely unacceptable to us. [[15.50]] We should withdraw this, my fellow Members, and if you want to solve the problem of the victims, bring in or even bring in a bill that will deliver the money to the injured students, because that is not what this proposal is about. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-19-81	Thank you very much. Mr Nándor Gúr asked for a two-minute speech, MSZP. Here.
u2017-10-19-82	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Personally, I think it's a shame what you're doing. They are trying to open and prejudicate a political communication interface through this which serves the political interests of Fidesz and, in practice, Fidesz, although I am not sure that it serves in relation to the outcome. What I understand is that you didn't even comply with the Constitution at the time, so you gave birth to a basic law. But if you have done so, as has already been said here by my fellow Members, then at least why the internal content of the Fundamental Law, the presumption of innocence, is not taken into account, as my fellow Member Mesterházy referred to in Article 28 of the Fundamental Law. They make statements, make direct revelations about the parliamentary decision. What if it wasn't some kind of manipulation device? Are you trying to influence the court? How does that work in your brain? How is this put together in your brain? Why do you not allow the necessary measures to be taken in relation to the case to be taken by those who are entitled to do so? You are not entitled to do so, and Parliament is not entitled to judge here. No, the court! You do not want to pass judgment on such matters, on such matters, or on any other matter. If you want something, turn to Flórian Farkas, ask him a few things, or even to Flórian Farkas' driver, there's something to look for. You can find Voldemort. Start thinking about the ETUS, or try to think about something reasonable and normal about the Quaestor-damaged people mentioned by my fellow Member Bellozó. So-so, one sentence at the end: don't try to judge me, leave this to the man for whom it's meant: the court. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-19-83	Thank you very much. The speeches by Members seeking the opportunity to speak normally will follow. First, Congressman Zsolt Legény, MSZP.
u2017-10-19-84	Thank you for the floor and for the opportunity, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, During the morning, we have already said many things on the part of the opposition representatives in the keynote speeches. My fellow Members, Mr Fidesz, are not speaking now, so I have only one attempt to refer to what the opposition Members have said at the beginning of my speech. Congressman, I mean, Mr Szilágyi, but my fellow Members from the MSZP have also mentioned that students should be paid naturally, and students should not be harmed. I think everyone agrees on that. No one doubts that these students have worked for their money, these students have to be paid. But the proposal for a decision before us is nothing more than, as I have already tried to briefly describe it in my speech as a lie, an artificially enlarged problem, but in fact an incompetent instrument. Political hysteria and political witch-hunt are taking place in this matter, and what my fellow Members, my fellow Members of the Fidesz, have presented to us is simply outrageous that this proposal for a resolution has come before the House. The fact that the students have to be paid, I would like to state once again that it is not a question for anyone. Yes, these students have to be paid, but my fellow Member Tamás Harangozó has already pointed out that there are not thousands of students involved in the main proceedings, when they did not receive their wages immediately and by the deadline, there were thousands of students involved, but after that, when the opportunity opened up and there was a way to settle the wages, their number decreased considerably and significantly. Of course, if only one student's wages are not settled, that man's own life situation, that young man, that student's own life situation, is the biggest problem, so we do not have to look at it as if it should be Bagatellized, but it is part of historical loyalty and the truth that it is not about thousands of students, as we read in the presentation. This is political hysteria, and my fellow Members have already said that. It could have been a simple bill - citing the word "simple" of course - coming before the House with a bill, it would not have been a very long bill, the essence of which would have been that, in such a case, when, let us say, the bodies and authorities entitled to decide on a question to be decided, would have taken a decision on this matter, but in the meantime, the payment of wages would not have stopped and this problem could have been solved. But they didn't do that, but they didn't come in with a general bill, because they would normally have to deal with cases where the victims' financial problems had to be resolved, such as the Quaestor case, such as the Buda-Cash case, or the Hungária Securities Ltd. I was. So there are actually thousands, tens of thousands of people involved in these cases, whose compensation should otherwise be resolved, but, obviously, this is why you have not brought a bill here, because then these matters should be dealt with, and then they should also be dealt with. No! You want to pursue a political witch hunt, and you're trying to burn it on the entire left-wing side, so to speak, and that's why you've been trying to deal with this problem with a resolution proposal, but it's just another whining, as we said, because that wouldn't be the problem. The problem could simply be dealt with: if the company's blocked accounts, which it should have been, otherwise it could be paid. But why are these bank accounts blocked? - let's ask the question. If you'll excuse me, I'm going to prejudicate like you. That's because Fidesz's D.A.'s office told me to do so. This prosecutor's office, of course, acted on an order at the time, in our opinion. If the company's bank accounts hadn't been blocked when this case snapped, the students would have been paid otherwise. But that couldn't have happened because the bank accounts were blocked. So, it wouldn't need to be different decision proposals, but it simply needs to be resolved that the company's bank accounts, which are still blocked, could still be used to pay off the injured students with the money lying there. But that's not what's happening, because it's not in your interest. This is practically a prelude to the political campaign, the political campaign of the next spring parliamentary elections. We wouldn't be surprised if you dealt with this every day with the entire spectrum of the media that you have almost completely destroyed. That's what TV2, the Hungarian Times, the Pesti Guys, all the media platforms, Origo, and all the rest, could be a list of things that are related to you, because that's probably your real goal: maintaining fire through political hysteria in the political campaign, and constantly saying that this is one of the stigmas or crosses of the entire left. We expressly reject this because in the speaker's speech - or perhaps in his authors, I am sorry, I do not know exactly - in the morning some of my Fidesz fellow Members referred to who knows what was going on with party funding. What we would like to say is that there is nothing, however, that we could raise quite a lot of interesting things about Fidesz's party financing, but we would not have enough time for that, because then I would have to press about ten more opposition buttons to start talking about what happened in Fidesz' party financing. Obviously, this does not mean that what happened around the funding of the Socialist Party should then be covered, because there is one thing we can say: there was no money for party financing here, because it is not certain that there was any money going on. On the one hand, this company's account is closed. I, on the other hand, would not make the mistake that you would make by agreeing to things that the investigating authority and the court would have to find out and decide. However, we claim that this is a political witch hunt, and we also claim that this is only one of the steps of a consciously pre-constructed and planned campaign event on the part of Fidesz. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2017-10-19-85	Thank you very much. Here comes Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2017-10-19-86	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There is a point 1.3 of this draft decision, which sounds to me that it is justified to examine whether Human Operator Zrt. its activities had to do with the financing of the Balliberal parties to which Csaba Czeglédy is still a representative at the General Assembly in Szombathely. [[16.00]] I would ask my Fidesz fellow Member, the two who are here, why they do not feel that there should be an investigation here about the funding scandal concerning the Fidesz poster campaign. Or why don't you have to do a procedure, an investigation into whether they've been funded by a party through Antal Rogán's lawyer or by anyone else? Or István Garancsi's companies, which destroy the various sectors of the market, why does it not occur that, as a friend of Viktor Orbán, it might have something to do with Fidesz's party financing? Or Lőrinc Mészáros, the gasman of the country or the gasman of the nation, who increases his wealth by hundreds of billions each year, why does it not arise that it might be worth examining whether the growth of these companies, the growth of these people, will contribute to the financing of Fidesz? Or Vajna's funds from various corporate empires, why don't they contribute to Fidesz's party funding? And, by the way, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is the SAO, and there is the prosecutor's office, which can carry out these investigations, which, by the way, investigates the funding of parties every year and can therefore establish such facts. It seems to me that before they had such an ambition to make opposition parties impossible so before the various campaigns, it was when they wanted to withdraw the parties' budget support twice, and they had the idea that everyone should support themselves from various donations. Now, with such financiers or potential financiers as I have just mentioned, it is probably easy to support Fidesz, so it was clear that this initiative was about destroying opposition parties. The last time they kicked a big one in the Jobbik, they blew up the prosecution's investigation and the various SAO investigations, and I see that now we've got MSZP and DK as a party. So it may also be worth pointing out that Fidesz seems to be trying to threaten opposition parties as the election campaign approaches. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] I have one more question as to why the Parliament is not investigating the affairs of Roland Mengyi, György Simonka or Flórian Farkas. Today I was reading in the news that János Lázár said at the Government Info that he was going to turn to the European Commission, and I quote, what it is like to have the support of the body in the same ownership circle, from which a person suspected of committing a crime will receive money. If I understand correctly, Simonka, Mengyi and Flórian Farkas are the same thing; unfortunately, they are not yet suspected or only partially suspected. So we are curious when these Members will be taken out of Parliament, when they will be asked to extradite each of them, to suspend their immunity, and when will TV2, M1 and Echo TV show that these Members will be dragged in handcuffs. But I could also mention the Member, Mr Simon Miklós, who was sitting across from us, who, when he was asked to be extradited in Parliament for various crimes, was denied by Fidesz and did not give his consent so that the Member could clarify himself in these matters - he was probably more comfortable hiding behind immunity from these proceedings. So I just want to... [[Dr. Simon Miklós intervenes.]] Well, look, Congressman, you need a majority to extradite, and you didn't support the Fidesz faction's suspension of your immunity. If I remember correctly, in those cases, suspects who were there were convicted, so even crimes committed in a criminal organisation in Hungarian could have been accused of many characters, or, if I remember correctly, they were also accused of that. So I wouldn't say that the horse's foot hangs out here, my fellow Members, the horse hangs out of this whole matter: you want to find a campaign tool to frame the left, threaten the opposition parties from the other side, and you think you can afford it. This is certainly not going to happen, because we will not allow ourselves to do so, that is for sure. So I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that this is not a good direction, we must withdraw this proposal for a resolution and leave the administration of justice to do its job, and that if the students, let me repeat it once again, must definitely make a draft law; I think that Mr Szilágyi has rightly pushed this and my fellow Member, Mr Belló, too. And it would also be good to clarify how many victims, how much they are, because it is very difficult to make an informed decision about the size of the compensation, too. This is also important, because these companies have assets, so it is likely that in the normal round this compensation should be made from these instruments, but their concern in this regard is also a little nuanced by the situation or the fact that when it was about the Quaestor-damaged, when it was about Buda-Cash or, as many people have said here, the various cooperative problems, ETUSZ, they did not want to compensate the victims fully with the taxpayers' money themselves. For this reason, once again, it seems that there is much more political gain here than real, honest, pure intentions that you have come up with here. One more thing, just to go through the notes written for myself, I would like to ask you one more thing: what does that have to do with a parliamentary decision, students, and their compensation, when Csaba Czeglédy received the amount of support from whom he received from, and now it is Ferenc Gyurcsány Altus Zrt. From a company you call it? What exactly does this have to do with saving students and their - how do I put it - compensation? So it is quite clear that all of this resolution is about how - I say it once again - to defraud, discredit opposition parties without any real reason or evidence, while the corruption cases affecting you, which, of course, can now be said to be on state level, are institutionalized, because in many cases you are making any laws at all so that you can steal certain economic sectors, so that you can put some of your friends in a favourable position, and as long as it was true that you could say only with Nyerges towers They used public machines to bring the money home from the Hungarian budget and from European Union sources, and now they do this in industrial size, in institutionalized form, and today the funny saying is true, which is often quoted in Hungary, that you shouldn't steal, they tell citizens, because the government doesn't like competition. You're doing this in an institutionalized way. We are sitting in front of us, and Members who, if any, would have been in prison as a minimum suspect or should have been arrested in advance are voting, and you are trying to make opposition parties more discredited or impossible to operate them. So I think that, of course, the best way to solve this problem is to replace you in the elections in 2018 and then do a real accountability. This real accountability must be a fundamental part of taking back the stolen money from these people, so we need to find in Hungarian the democratic, rule of law way to take back the money that was stolen from the pockets of Hungarian taxpayers, because then there will be peace in Hungary, and then there will be justice, and one of the most important principles of the MSZP's programme is to do justice. Justice must be done, money must be taken from these people! Thank you very much. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right! Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-10-19-87	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome back. Congressman Zsolt Legány indicated that he would like to comment in two minutes. You have the floor.
u2017-10-19-88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In my previous speech, I have mentioned that this is all a political witch hunt, a proposal for a resolution before us, and what confirms this is another argument, let me also make. Human Operator Zrt., which is concerned with this resolution proposal before us - of course I am aware that you always want to refer it to the Czeglédy case, only because it is not called Csaba Czeglédy's MSZP municipal representative's case constantly, because it needs to be shortened, but in this case the basic concern is Human Operator Zrt. -, well, this particular company, we have the MTI news before us, which says you've already declared that you've had an APEH check every year since 2012, by the way. [[16.10]] There were times when Ildikó Vida, then president of the IPEH, personally ordered these checks, and interestingly, these checks - I say: they had checks every year - did not reveal any problems, problems, shortcomings. It is quite interesting that your government commissioner for accountability, as my colleague Szilágyi mentioned, has said, and Gyula Budai has said that since 2013 this company has caused damage. Interestingly, in your annual investigations of the tax administration, you have never, in any way, found any evidence of this or any reprehensibility. It is quite interesting, therefore I say: the current story is a matter of political motivation and political order. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-10-19-89	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Zoltán Bóna if he wishes to comment as rapporteur. [[Zoltán Bóna: Yes.]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-19-90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Very briefly. There was talk of campaign tools, brilliance, witch hunts, but I believe that during the morning the facts have already been mentioned by the authors, namely that besides the damage to the state, the Human Operator Zrt. led by Csaba Czeglédy was insolvent in May-June this year, as a result of which nearly a thousand students did not receive the rightful payment of more than HUF 100 million. So, in short, simply: this proposal for a decision continues to be about the worked and unpaid wages of young people who have been damaged, in which we ask the government to act. So, in the light of all of this, if you agree with the aim of the resolution proposal that the compensation of the students left to themselves be settled by the state on a fair basis, please support the submitted proposal. Thank you in advance. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-19-91	Thank you, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals could be submitted by 16:00, so there is no further possibility. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. We now have an after-the-meet speech. In this context, I will also give the floor to Mr Zoltán Bóna with the title of the news of the island of Szentmiklós region. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-19-92	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Szigetszentmiklós and the surrounding smaller settlements are undergoing dynamic development and change that there are always new issues and tasks to be solved, as well as joyful, remarkable results. It is a success to note that the administrative centre provided at the beginning of the year, where the district court, the prosecution's office, the police and the government's office, operates in a building complex. It provides a unique location in the country that meets the requirements of the century. It is important to mention from our region that thanks to the possibility of the KEHOP Dunavarsány, Szigetcsép, Tököl, Szigetújfalu, Szigetszentmárton and Szigetszentmiklós settlements have gained significant resources to reduce the energy use of buildings owned by the municipality. We also have hope for the reconstruction of the waste water treatment plant in Dunavarsány. The long - awaited investment will start in the near future, as hoped. The increase in the population of this region naturally results in the need for continuous expansion and development of institutional systems. The leaders and residents of the region look forward to the investment of the Szentmiklós specialist clinic, which is planned to start this year and will be completed by the end of 2018. The project of more than 350 million HUF will not only expand the specialised building, but also the acquisition of new diagnostic tools and the modernisation of the IT system will also be implemented. In addition to health care, education is of particular importance in the region as a whole. In these municipalities, however, it is not only the continuing increase in the organisation and quality of education that needs to be addressed, but also the continuing need to increase capacity. The expansion of pre-school and school spaces is a recurring task year after year, thanks to resettlement and joyfully improved demographic trends. It is expected that, with the support of the government, two new schools will be built in the near future in Szigetszentmiklós. We are pleased to see year after year that, in addition to continuous development, economic growth and the rise in the standard of living of the people living here, there is a significant increase in the various civil society organisations and the people living here can have rich and vibrant cultural experiences. In this context, special mention should be given to the Summerfest series, held for the 25th time next year with the centre of 100halombatta, which provides a high-quality insight into the culture of the various peoples of the world in several settlements in the region. One of the most challenging problems in this region is the revitalization of the Ráckevei-Danube branch. This area with exceptional natural features has potential which would not only be an enormous development opportunity for settlements located in the area, but also a nationally significant one. It can also be established as a recreational, sports and tourism area of the century. For this reason, the investments in the waste water channel along the Kis-Danube have been a major step forward in this area. Our primary tasks are to take the necessary measures as soon as possible to improve the water quality of this river section. Transport is the most widespread challenge in Csepel Island. In addition to its many positive effects, the continued growth of population causes huge problems in this area. It is a reason for satisfaction and hope that serious progress has already been made in recent years. The expansion of the southern section of the M0 ring and the transfer of the Csepel Island Ridge in December 2013 have brought significant improvements, but the fact that the less than 10 km journey between Fishermen and Csepel can sometimes be taken by car in 60-70 minutes is a cause of serious concern. One of the solutions to this problem could be the development of Community transport. Therefore, the leaders and residents of the region hope to take positive action as a result of the organisational changes affecting the HÉV. At the same time, the biggest change would be to take the necessary steps in order to reduce the congestion of the roads to Budapest, which is located in the immediate vicinity of the VÉV gateway and its surroundings. Discussions are still ongoing in this area [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to develop the most effective professional solution, but it is clear that this wide-ranging problem can only be solved with significant government support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-19-93	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its meeting next Tuesday at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 16:19 p.m.]]
