u2017-08-21-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon, fellow Members. I'd like to welcome you all here in the re-starting heat of the summer. I would like to inform you that you will be able to help me at the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly in the summer of Dezső and István Ikotity. The meeting is now in session. Welcome to our guests and to all those who are monitoring our work today. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: This half hour will be difficult.]] The pre-meeting speeches will follow. Mr. Bertalan Tóth from the MSZP Group asked for a pre-meeting speech, which Fidesz does not know: duty, responsibility, a real solution to a real problem. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2017-08-21-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Keep in mind that all men are born in the same state, and that nothing raises you except humility, nothing pushes you down except pride and hatred. Szent István's intelligence was highlighted in a festive speech by the Prime Minister of Fidesz. And if we look around here in the benches of Parliament, then we can see who is important to Hungary and the problems of Hungarian people; and who are, we can also - and to be more precise: we cannot see them - who are important to pride and hatred, not the problem of Hungarian people. Fidesz and KDNP have proved today that they do not care about the future of Hungary, they do not care about the fate of hundreds of thousands of people in distress. They only follow their own selfish, power-bearing interests, because in a petty, revenge-driven case, Fidesz was able to convene an extraordinary meeting in the summer, and they came there, but they fled from the real problems. They chose to take a vacation or miss the helicopter. [[Interview from MSZP's so.: That's important.]] On the initiative of MSZP, LMP and independent representatives, we convened the Parliament today for two reasons. One is the protection of the freedom of education and the other is the help of foreign exchange creditors. The aim of the first case is to stop Fidesz in his fight against Hungarian higher education, and to prevent the inability of one of the best Hungarian universities, CEU. We need this extraordinary sitting and bill, which we have tabled, because we need to protect the freedom of science and education. We must protect Hungary from shame and punishment. We must protect students, teachers and Hungarian people from the destructive, foolish, cynical and lying attacks of Fidesz. [[Lajos Kósa arrives in the Chamber. Noise, intervention on the opposition side, including: Good afternoon.]] We, together with the other democratic forces, are fighting for the common goal, the future of Hungarian students, because this is the only way to avoid punishing and disfellowshipping our country from Europe because of the Orbán government. The other issue is to take immediate action to prevent tens of thousands of Hungarian families in difficulties in payment from entering the street. Fellow Members! Today, 70,000 families still have debts in the exchange barrier collection account, whose debt has increased by an average of 270 thousand forints. 72,000 families were made for credit institutions on enforcement. This year, 774 evictions took place only in the first quarter. Remember, in April 2010, the euro was still HUF 265 and the Swiss franc was HUF 185. However, Fidesz consciously weakened the forint and increased the repayments. Let us also remember that Lajos Kósa and Péter Szijjártó declared that the exchange rate of the forint lost in June 2010. With the loss of exchange rates caused by the government, in 2010 foreign exchange lenders suffered a HUF 974 billion exchange rate loss. Where is Peter Szijjártó now? Yet Lajos Kósa appeared. But where is György Matolcsy now, who consciously weakens the forint in the Hungarian National Bank and finances relatives, friends or girlfriends from the resulting exchange gains? But where is Minister Trócsányi, whose law firm does not represent foreign exchange credit victims, but even banks vis-à-vis the Hungarian state? [[Intercom from the opposition side.]] But where is Minister Trocsányi, whose wife squawks foreign exchange-credit protesters? [[Sallai R. Benedek, as he takes his seat as his representative, resign!]] Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP considers the way the government and the Hungarian National Bank deal with the problems of foreign exchange lenders to be unacceptable. If Fidesz were to protect the interests of the creditors against the banks, it would have supported the earlier proposals of the MSZP; not only would it be the wind-up rich, but all Hungarian families with foreign exchange credit could pay at the discount rate in 2010. The Hungarian National Bank's 266 billion-dollar profit would have been paid to the injured, not to Matolcsy's friends, relatives, or even to his girlfriend; and the foreign exchange-credited victims of the broker scandals, including the families of the worst affected Baranya, could have already received the assistance. Ladies and gentlemen, The destruction, the pride, the hatred must be stopped. This is why we need a change of government in 2018. Let justice be done for our future together, Hungary. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-08-21-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-08-21-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: Just the truth!]] Today we were once again convinced what it meant in practice when Ildikó Lendvai said to the camera that opposition parties were all on George Soros' side. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Because even in the summer, in matters important to the billionaire, Parliament will be convened, even László Botka would probably leave behind any coral reef if he were a Member of Parliament. Many wish, I think, that I wish opposition representatives, including Jobbik, would be so enthusiastic when they should act and vote on matters affecting Hungarian people. [[Noise, interrogations from the opposition side. The president's ringing the bell.]] As regards the proposed topic of today's sitting, you know very well that the government wants all universities in Hungary to have the same rules, no loopholes, no double standards. The previous amendment of the law does not impose requirements on any foreign university. It is no coincidence that the negotiations are going well with the countries concerned. No one wants to close the Soros University, and the fact that you claimed it is nothing but a part of the usual political hysteria. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] As far as the issue of foreign exchange credentials is concerned, it is difficult to stop there in order not to be angry at the persuasion of the opposition. [[Cries from the ranks of the MSZP, including Dr. László Szakács: Don't get angry!]] Because if there is a clear responsibility for the foreign exchange credit crisis, it is left-wing, left-wing governance. [[Uproar, interrogations from the opposition side, including: Ask Lajos. The president's ringing the bell.]] The civilian government is left to deal with the foreign exchange credit crisis. That's why this government has decided on a price barrier, end-payments and bank settlement. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: 180 HUF for your friends.]] And the opposition, honourable Member, which is now faking a big heart, has not voted for these measures at all. If it had been for the opposition, the debt would be higher today, there would have been more than the banks, and more families would have gone bankrupt. I would like to remind you that László Botka has not voted to ban foreign exchange loans, to postpone interest rate increases. It did not vote in favour of the exchange rate barrier or the setting up of the asset manager. László Botka did not vote for the final repayment. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP, including Zoltán Gőgös: He was not a Member, that is why he was not.]] And then the MSZP didn't support bank accountability. [[13.10]] Here we are, this is the opposition, this is the currency-credited list of shames of the MSZP. Please tell the victims. [[Dr. László Szakács: The General Assembly of Szeged... Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Tell Lajos! Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Tell Orbán!]] Dear House, I am sorry that the MSZP has failed to put a number of cases on the agenda that otherwise affect many people in Hungary. For example, if the issues are important to George Soros, why didn't you ask for the border closure? We are well aware that your Prime Minister's candidate would break the border lock, and your party president would launch the resettlement programs. After last week's terrorist attacks, I don't think we need to be very specific about the security risks involved. And here's another thing, ladies and gentlemen of the House. [[Dr. László Kács: Is there anything else written there?]] If we look at the MSZP statements, we see that the MSZP is trying to highlight its socially sensitive side. He's doing this by having one of their main men, Csaba Czeglédy, arrested 68 days in advance. [[Anita Heringes: Roland of Heaven... Intercoms from the ranks of the MSZP: What about Roland of Heaven? Anita Herring: Why doesn't she sit? Intercoms from the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] For nothing else - and you know it, honourable Member - than for avoiding a tax of HUF 3 billion, that's all that's missing. And among the victims, we find students whose wages were not paid. Thus stands the MSZP: it refers to young people, duty, responsibility, social justice, but one of its dominant people disappears 3 billion and steals Hungarian students. [[Dr. László Kács: Mengyi holds these conferences!]] In the meantime, the party is silent about the contracts it has concluded with Csaba Czeglédy and whether it has already terminated these contracts. [[The problem is you're not answering what we talked about. Dr. László Kács: Do you still have a contract with Flóri?]] Such is the MSZP, a party lined with gold nuggets and corruption, which would eliminate the security of Hungary, and even let down foreign exchange creditors when they had to vote. Compared to this, their usual pre-election squabbling is only a small footnote. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Flóri, Flóri!]] Thank you for listening.
u2017-08-21-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, - Ten thousand casualties! Mr Ákos Hadházy, from the LMP Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-08-21-5	[[No sound.]] Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, - half of them are here.
u2017-08-21-6	Can't hear you!
u2017-08-21-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, - half of them are here, who came, who took the time. Terrorists take lives, they destroy lives, and mean and unscrupulous politicians can be responsible for destroying lives and even taking lives. We don't know how many of the foreign exchange credulists committed suicide, there are some, unfortunately, they're not even alone, but it can be calculated how many people's lives are ruined by politicians who speak as you do and who are willing to deal with this problem the way you do. We know that last year there were 3,000 implementations, this year the number of implementations will reach 10,000. In September, 1600 implementations will be launched. This is 80 executions every working day, 80 heads of families will take the house from above. And when you look at the execution data, you can see from the judicial enforcement data that the estimated value of the property is half as much as these people owe. So they'll be kicked out of the house, and then they'll be able to pay them back for the rest of their lives. Therefore, the LMP wants to do everything in its power to suspend evictions, which is why we have proposed this item today, at least until the decision of the EU court or, if it is not favourable, until the next government, which will solve this problem, let us give these people a delay. You, on the other hand, didn't come, obviously insensitive, obviously lazy, and obviously heartless. Unfortunately, they're probably cowards, too, because they're looking cowards in the eye of the foreign exchange loan victims. I ask Mr Secretary of State, when he cynically notes that you have done everything you can and solved everything and there is no question of foreign exchange credit, then you will tell those who are under execution or are waiting for execution, whose husband has died, you cannot pay the repayment and your house is already in execution. [[Dr. László Kács: Tell them who didn't vote for it. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Why aren't you here?]] It's even worse to think that there are fidesz politicians who use real estate to save money, and who might have an interest in getting these people out of the house they bought so that they can revalue it as soon as possible with a profit. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] You are not here, so we cannot help you, and Parliament cannot do anything about eviction today, but we can promise and accept that the first thing we will solve will be to save these people, and we will work out the conditions of a foreign exchange-credit compensation for all those who were not in a lucky position to repay at the rate of HUF 180. The LMP will also do everything in its power, and it trusts that the opposition will not bid on each other, who will save, who will rescue these people, but we will make a promise together, no matter how the new government turns out, but we will save these people. You didn't come here for nothing, because you know we're going to charge you. It is not only the bankers who are responsible for the tragedy of foreign exchange lenders, not only those bankers who have actually brought hundreds of thousands of people into a future transaction, but also the government is responsible for foreign exchange credentials, they have weakened the forint consciously, admittedly, premeditatedly, that they knew very well that most of the people will not be saved, only in the end repayments, early repayments, those who had so much money were saved. We're accusing you because what's been the worst in this whole process for your part, when you're talking about having the banks accounted for, you're talking about taxing the banks. That's right, they put out an extra tax, took away the extra profit that the banks were looking for on the blood of the Feds. They took it away from them, but they just forgot to give it back to the Feds. Since 2010, a thousand billion forints were taken from banks in this form, the money was taken from these people, but they forgot to give it back. They built a stadium on Felcsú. Tell these people that you've solved everything, and there's no foreign exchange credential problem. And finally, we accuse you because you did not stop Matolcsy's Hungarian National Bank from giving you the Swiss franc he bought for 160 HUF for 260 HUF in the forinting action. We are accusing you of not preventing you from spending 260 billion forints of this money on virtually all kinds of luxury expenses to your mistress. We accuse you and promise and promise that we will solve this problem. Thank you very much.
u2017-08-21-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-08-21-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, You can't make a government statement about everything being resolved. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. László Kács:]] There's a lot to do. However, one thing we say is that, in this work, we cannot count on opposition parties, based on the experience of recent years, to help foreign exchange credentials. Allow me to tell you that today's meeting was initiated by the LMP with the Hungarian Socialist Party, and the strange thing is, once again, that today's meeting was initiated with those who are the main parties responsible for the foreign exchange crisis. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Come on! That's a lie! The president's ringing the bell.]] So allow me to recall the history in a little bit more detail. In 2002 there was a well-functioning housing support system in Hungary, and the left who came to power promised to continue this, and then this promise was broken, this programme was abolished. This shifted Hungarian families towards foreign exchange lending, which resulted in more than a hundred times the amount of residential foreign exchange loans - more than a hundred times. In a few years, exchange rates have changed dramatically. While banks conducted unfair practices [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Look right behind you!]] And since left-wing governments have turned a blind eye to this, this has had tragic consequences: hundreds of thousands of people are trapped in a debt trap, in a hopeless situation. And I'd like to make it clear to you that left-wing governments didn't give them any help. [[Interpreting from the lines of the MSZP: Except for a good exchange rate!]] The gravity of the situation was recognised by the civilian government from the outset, so one of the first measures was the announcement of the eviction moratorium, then introduced the exchange rate barrier and allowed the end repayment, the government decided on the forinting and accountability of the banks. The banks paid back more than a thousand billion forints in total. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy: Where did you put it? Dr. László Kács: Where is he?]] For the sake of order, I would also like to tell you that the LMP referring to foreign exchange legitimists did not support either the exchange rate barrier, the end-payment or the establishment of the National Asset Manager here in Parliament. So it's true for the LMP, too, that if it were up to them, there would have been more to pay, more to the banks. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Oh, no, don't... don't lie. You're lying! The president's ringing.]] And more people would have gone bankrupt. That's the thing. As far as the future is concerned, honourable Member: if they really wanted to avoid similar credit crises, they would not flirt more intensively with the socialists, they would not try to be more closely associated with those who, once again, are the main parties to the foreign exchange credit crisis. [[13.20]] Since the best remedy for similar crises is a well-functioning home-building system, we ask LMP on behalf of many Hungarian families whether this party, like the socialists, wants to eliminate it. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: We ask, you answer!]] well-functioning home-building programs. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: The government doesn't ask the opposition! The government is responding!]] If they are truly committed to the cause of Hungarian families, they will give an honest answer [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: This is not the genre when the government asks the opposition!]] on this issue of strategic importance. Thank you for listening.
u2017-08-21-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, How long will the financial scam of the century last? Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has applied for a speech before the agenda with a title from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-08-21-11	Mr President, Dear House, In connection with the financial scam of the century, it's embarrassing that the representatives of the governing parties have allowed themselves the insolence that they didn't come to this extraordinary meeting. The Secretary of State's words should not be dealt with from here on out, because they are uncredited, but let us give him the honour that, if at least he is here, we should allow him to respond in substance and professionally. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] Mr. Secretary. I could take care of this with a question. If someone took up their so-called loan at 165 HUF, explain to me mathematically, logically, morally why it had to be redeemed at 256 HUF, almost market rate. You're talking about counting banks, you're just lying. What logic did they use to rob these people? Once again, how did the HUF 160-165 become 260, where was the difference? You said that a thousand-billion-dollar order was taken back from those involved. Where's the money? [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The National Bank! The money's in Pallas Athena!]] Surrender that, by virtue of their completely faulty accounting law, the hundreds of billions of dollars have been legalized by the banks, which have been taken from the Hungarian people - and then returned to them by a Jobbik government - but, Mr Secretary of State, do not lie. Until these loans are HUFed at the price of the day of admission as suggested by Jobbik, you lied and support a looting mechanism, according to which you and your gang credited the funds unduly taken from the people in the bank accounts after entering into a pact with the Hungarian Banking Association. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] They slept quite patheticly with the Hungarian banking system, and I recall that they did so with two thirds of their support. We must say that we are working with everyone on this issue, including the LMP, which, in the previous cycle, was talking about the threefold responsibility that debtors should be involved in the settlement as much as possible here. We are very pleased with the evolution of LMP that we can now articulate this issue in the same way that we should have done from the beginning, but the extension of the eviction moratorium would not be the task of LMP, not the Jobbik, but the Government of Hungary. You made the promise not to leave anyone on the side of the road. I have demanded of you, by the way, dozens of times so far, that this moratorium be extended until they meet their own promise, so until the situation of these people has been resolved. And there is only one way to do that: the loans must be converted into the price of the day of admission, and then we can argue about the compensation that would be due to these people, because you can't - I hope you don't want - express in forints the nights that have been paid, the family members that have lost, at least so much loss, the tens of thousands who have been forced abroad, the hundreds of thousands of people who pay their foreign currency loans from the higher wage there. So you contribute to the evacuation of the country and contribute to the drying up of the Hungarian economy. He also put something on the table from the Jobbik opposition. Our concept of a wage union - which a opposition party was ashamed to launch with several allied countries and not with you in the government - provides clear answers to how, by increasing the wage level in Hungary, the borrowing pressure that led to this completely screwed-up foreign exchange loan and its screwed-up state regulation can be removed. Mr. Secretary. Before you start banging your boobs, I'm gonna check it out because I did it: before 2010, you were nowhere. Can't find their opposition proposals, can't find the memory of their demonstrations in front of Parliament. Where have you been? What did they do then? [[Dr. László Szakács: They studied at Soros University!]] What's with the big boobs? ! And where have they been since then? They didn't do anything before, and then they slept with the banks for a year or two. And now you're proud of it. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Shame!]] That the lucky ones could pay off at 180 forints, your fidesz buddies and the lucky people who had the resources to do this? I'm standing here for the people whose market rate is HUF 256. Does he have the nerve to tell you that the banks are accounted for? ! Hundreds of billions of Hungarians have been unwarranted, and this has been credited with their corrupted accounting law on the accounts of the financial institutions concerned. So I'm going to say once again: a HUFing at the exchange rate at the time of admission, a grouping of the surplus accumulated at the MNB on the foreign exchange credit conversion into a compensation fund - from which the victims' fate is settled - would be necessary, a fair home creation programme not only for CSOKs and not only for CSOKs, but also for rent building programmes, the extension of the eviction moratorium until they meet their promise, and in the fifth place Jobbik has also submitted a proposal ready to stop the excess executions. The ball is bouncing in your court, and we will discuss all this in the fall, but we are always dressed like one, so please dress like one, but at least come into this Parliamentary Chamber and stop running, and stop being cowards. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-08-21-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. I understand your anger, but I'm asking you to use certain terms at other times. [[Dr. István Apáti: Use it more often! Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] try to delete it from your speech. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-08-21-13	Mr. President. Well, we've heard worse from Jobbik, so it's nothing compared to that. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] Honourable Congressman, If we look at his statements from a few years ago, whether yours or the right statements, then we can see that they knew very well that it was the left that allowed room for foreign exchange lending, and it was this government that stopped this practice, and now, for some reason, they deny it, I don't know what the reason is, it's another story. Allow me, in response to your speech, to say that today's debate was initiated by those who are the main cause of the foreign exchange crisis. [[A statement from the MSZP: You're lying again! Szabó Timea: You've been steering for seven years!]] You refer to the victims in cooperation with the unsubs. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Where are the representatives?]] Nevertheless, we can agree that the common goal is to help families with foreign exchange credit. Once again, that's why the government decided on the exchange rate barrier, end-payments and bank settlement. The government's actions helped 1.4 million people in total. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Do they know?]] But there is no stopping here, there is still work to be done, so the government is constantly examining how to provide further help to families in distress. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy: It was worth it to come in! Dr. László Kács: Csaba! Did you get that they didn't sign?]] Anyone who listens to the right-wing speeches in these weeks could easily believe that the party has this issue at heart. However, Jobbik's past actions can easily deny that, that is the case. Records testify to accusers. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks:]] The fact is, for example, the party president did not vote in favour of the law on the prohibition of foreign exchange loans and the limitation of interest rate increases. Jobbik and Gábor Vona did not vote for the introduction of the exchange barrier, which, by the way, you did not say anything about it, helped 185 thousand authentic ones. The President of Jobbik did not vote for the extension of the eviction moratorium, nor did he vote for the Forinting Act. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Who is on the government?]] So in this case, too, we can say that if the Jobbikon were to depend on it, it would be higher today, there would be more than banks, and more would go bankrupt. So what you're doing here is more than outrageous and hypocrisy itself. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, If some people have already got together, let me also bring up a few things because Parliament has not met in the last few weeks, and there have been no speeches before the agenda. The point is that Jobbik insults certain social groups in Hungary in an invaluable manner. They started with Hungarians across the border for the first time. According to one of Jobbik's leaders, among Hungarians across the border, I quote, there is a tendency to go mad, and like Indians, they can be bought with a handful of glass beads. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] Then Congressman Mirkóczki shook the insult tree [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You should answer! You're not saying pre-scheduled, you're answering, right?]] And according to press reports at Jobbik's summer camp, most of the voters are only interested in buying a beer at Tesco and watching the game tonight. Arrogance and disdain on the cube, any of your P.D.S. babes could envy that. Then came Gábor Vona, who almost a month ago classified the elderly as perhaps no one in the last thirty years. Even if they try to deny it, even if they didn't make it happen, the disparaging words are blushing on the party president's Facebook page. Gábor Vona said, and I quote, that in the eyes of pensioners, hatred flashes, sewage flows from their mouths, jumping out of their mouths, spilling blood with their trembling hands, and yelling at each other. [[István Szávay: That's not what he said! You're lying! Dr. István Apáti intervenes. Martin Gyöngyösi intervenes.]] Come on. That's what it's like to see the real face of the Jobbik for a moment, in addition to the cat pictures. Well, it's not a pretty sight to see the face of a party that can do anything for money and power. [[13.30]] I would like to say to you and to you, Mr President of the Party, that there is no political difference that would give any basis for insulting any social group in Hungary with such words; neither young nor elderly can be humiliated in this way. Tomorrow it's been a month since Gábor Vona published his scandalous entry. I think this is an excellent time to apologize. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] - not in the name of someone else, not in the name of others, but in the name of yourself. Don't blame it on anyone else, don't smear and apologize, millions of people are waiting for this. Thank you for listening. [[Sallai R. Benedek: Not even the Kósa applauds!]]
u2017-08-21-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to inform you, fellow Members... [[Intercoms from the opposition: Lajos! Louis! It's ringing.]] My fellow Members, you heard me. I would like to inform you that we have received a motion to waive the immunity of our fellow Member L. Simon László Fidesz 25.B.11.155/2017/2-II. Pest Central District Court on a private charge. The Speaker of Parliament has issued this to the immunity committee for examination. Dear Parliament, Since it's 1:31 p.m., we can move on to the decision-making process. I declare that 40 of our fellow Members, by submitting the necessary supporting signatures, are members of the Parliament Act 35. Article 1 of the Act on the abolition of the Lex CEU. LIII of 1994 on judicial enforcement T/16750 on the amendment of the Act to the renewal of the eviction moratorium. for the purpose of the discussion of this proposal. I will also inform the Honourable Parliament that the MSZP Group has initiated the negotiation of legislative proposals with a derogation from the House Rules of Procedure. There was no consensus at the House Committee's meeting, so, in the absence of the necessary support, the Speaker did not present them. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote. Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: A visible majority!]] This is true, it is visible, but given the many empty spaces, I find that the Parliament has not adopted the resolution and is not capable of a quorum. [[Moraj, intervention from the opposition.]] Congressman Szanyi, we're about to check this with a push-button. I would also like to announce that Mr György Balla, Deputy Group Leader, has in a letter initiated a repetition of the vote using a ballot counting machine. In accordance with the motion, I am now asking the Honourable Parliament whether it will accept the proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. Please vote now with the help of a ballot counting machine. [[Vote.]] I note that the Parliament, when adopting the agenda, did not vote with 57 votes in favour - 141 - without a vote and without abstention, as Parliament did not have a quorum, and did not accept the agenda. House rules are 14. I shall establish the list of missing representatives pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2. In the absence of a proposal on the agenda adopted on the basis of the provisions of the house rules, no item on the agenda may be discussed. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the Parliament is expected to take place on 18 September. I thank you for your presence. The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 1:35 p.m.]]
